Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7511-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION AND THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A SECOND CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
SDR 40.5 MILLION (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND
A SECOND LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING
February 15, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Rupees (Rs) as of February 14, 2002
US$1 = Rs 48.34
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA          Analytical and Advisory Activity         KPCL          Karnataka Power Corporation Limited
ARC           Administrative Reform Commission        KPTCL         Karnataka Power Transmission
BDA          Bangalore Development Authority                        Corporation Limited
C&AG          Comptroller & Auditor General           KSBPE         Karnataka State Bureau of Public
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy                           Enterprises
CDF           Comprehensive Development               KSRTC         Karnataka State Road Transportation
Framework                                             Corporation
DECs          Departmental Evaluation Committees      LAN           Local Area Network
DES           Department of Economics and             MOP           President's Report
Statistics                               MoU          Memorandum of Understanding
ECC          Environmental Clearance Committee        MTFP          Medium Term Fiscal Plan
ERC          Expenditure Review Committee             NGO           Non Government Organization
FRP          Financial Restructuring Plan             NSSO          National Sample Survey Organization
FRF          Fiscal Reform Facility                   O&M           Operations and Maintenance
GDP          Gross Domestic Product                   PE            Public Enterprise
Gol          Government of India                      PHDMS         Poverty and Human Development
GoK           Government of Karnataka                               Monitoring System
GSAP         Governance and Strategy Action Plan      PRI           Panchayati Raj Institution
GSDP         Gross State Domestic Product             PSAL          Programmatic Structural Adjustment
HDR          Human Development Report                               Loan/Lending
HUDCO        Housing and Urban Development            PSU           Public Sector Unit
Company                                  PWD          Public Works Department
IMF          International Monetary Fund              SFAMS         State Financial Accountability and
IPPs         Independent Power Producers                            Management Study
IT           Information Technology                   TA            Technical Assistance
KERC         Karnataka Electricity Regulatory         TRC           Tax Reform Commission
Commission                               VAT          Value Added Tax
KERL         Karnataka Economic Restructuring         VRS           Voluntary Retirement Scheme
Loan/Credit
KIFB         Karnataka Industries Facilitation Bill
The World Bank
Vice President             :     Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director                  Mr. Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director            :     Mr. Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager                    Mr. Sanjay Pradhan
Task Managers              :      Mr. Stephen Howes
Ms. Lili Liu



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING LOAN/CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ....................1l
II. KARNATAKA'S REFORM PROGRAM AND THE BANK'S ASSISTANCE                                    .         2
A. Karnataka's Reform Program                                   .2
B. Bank's Support to Karnataka's Reform Program                         .7
III. KARNATAKA'S FISCAL AND GOVERNANCE REFORMS: A PROGRESS REPORT                                 .8
A. Fiscal Reforms and Public Expenditure Management ........................................... ; . 8
B. Administrative Refonns                                   .17
C. Private Sector Development .21
D. Poverty Monitoring and Statistical Strengthening .23
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT .25
A. Karnataka's Financing Needs .25
B. Upfront Actions for the Second Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit (KERL2) .        25
C. Benchmarks for Future KERLs .26
D. Implementation Arrangements, Performance Monitoring and Outcomes .27
E. Loan/Credit Administration .28
V. LESSONS LEARNT, BENEFITS, AND RISKS .29
A. Lessons Learnt ............     .     .     .     .     .     .     .       ..         .    . 29
B. Benefits ...:29
C. Risks.31
Annex A Letter of Development Policy
Annex B Karnataka Economic Restructuring Program Matrix
Annex C Government of Karnataka Fiscal Trends
Annex D Karnataka Power Sector Finances
Annex E Statistical Annex
Map
Tatsk Teamt
Task Managers            Liii Liu (Senior Economist); Stephen Howes (Lead Economist)
Peer Reviewers           Flelen Sutch (Sector Manager, PRMPS); F. Desmond McCarthy (Consultant. DECPR)
Fiscal/Public Expenditure
Management               Trichur K. Balakrishnan (Senior Financial Analyst); Stephen H-owes; Deepak K. Mishra
(Economist): Farah Zahir (Research Analyst)
Administrative Reforms   Vikram K. Chand (Senior Public Sector Management Specialist)
Private Sector Development Sameer Akbar (Environmental Specialist); Paramita Dasgupta (Economist); Sunita Kikeri (Lead
Private Sector Development Specialist); Lili Liu
Poverty Monitoring &     Monica Jain (Research Analyst); Deepak K. Mishra; Rinku Murgai (Economist); Salman Zaidi
Statistical Strengthening  (Economist)
Sectoral Inputs          Lucio Monari (Senior Economist), Judith K. Plummer (Senior Financial Analyst), Sameer Shukla
(Financial Analyst, energy); Alok Nath Bansal (Senior Transport Planner, roads); Saj itha Bashir
(Senior Education Economist, education): Hnin Hnin Pyne (Public Health Specialist, health):
Sumir Lal (Advisor, External Affairs)
Legal Counsel            Syed 1. Ahmcd (Senior Counsel)
FMS/Dlisbursement Offcer  Hlyacinth D. Brown (Senior Financial Management Specialist)
Team Assistants          Rita Soni; Juliet Teodosio
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bankc authorization.



INDIA
SECOND KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING LOAN/CREDIT
Loan and Credit Summary
Borrower:             Government of India.
Implementing Agency: Government of Karnataka.
Beneficiaries:        State of Karnataka.
Amount:              Credit: SDR 40.5 million (US$50 million equivalent).
Loan: US$50 million.
Terms:               IDA: Standard with 35 years maturity and 10 years grace period.
Loan: Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace and annuity principal
repayment; at six-month LIBOR for USD plus variable spread for Variable-Rate
Single Currency Loans.
Onlending Terms:     Standard terms of central resource transfers for state developmental budgets.
Description:         This is the proposed second Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit
(KERL2) in support of the Karnataka Economic Restructuring Program. The
Program includes four components: (i) reforms in fiscal policy and public
expenditure management; (ii) administrative reforms; (iii) reforms to promote
private sector development; and (iv) strengthening of poverty monitoring and
statistical capacity. The President's Report (MOP) for the first Karnataka
Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit (KERLI) [(R2001-0094)(IDA/R2001-
0091)] indicated that the financing support required from the Bank for the
government fiscal year 2001/02 was US$250 million, of which KERLI,
approved by the Board on June 21, 2001, provided US$150 million equivalent,
leaving a balance of US$100 million to be financed by a second loan/credit. The
Government of Karnataka has made good progress in fiscal and govemance
reforms in 2001/02, including in relation to the reform milestones summarized in
the KERLI MOP.
Benefits:            The operation would provide further support and financial assistance for the
reform program of the Government of Karnataka. Expected benefits for
Karnataka from its comprehensive reforms include: (a) restoration of the state's
financial health; (b) improved governance and service delivery; (c) higher levels
of private investment; and (d) higher economic growth, reduced poverty, and
improved social indicators. The operation reinforces recent initiatives by the
Government of India to stimulate reforms in the states, and it is expected that
Karnataka's reforms will encourage similar reforms in other Indian states.
Risks:               The major risks remain: (a) slippage in the fiscal framework due to the
global/India slowdown, and delays in implementation of key sectoral reforms,
especially in the power sector; and (b) resistance to institutional and governance
reforms. These risks have been contained to date.
Disbursement:        The loan/credit would be disbursed in one tranche in an amount equivalent to
US$100 million upon effectiveness. The upfront actions for the loan/credit have
been completed.
Project ID Number:   IN-P059149.



1
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION AND
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A SECOND CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
SDR 40.5 MILLION (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A SECOND LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION
TO INDIA FOR KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING
1.   The India CAS [R-2001-0037/l)(IFC/R2001-0037/1], discussed by the Board on April 5, 2001,
highlights support for reforming states as one of the central thrusts of the Bank's strategy in India, and
identifies Karnataka as one of these reforming states. As part of its support to Karnataka, the Board
approved the first in a series of adjustment operations to the state on June 21, 2001 for US$150 million
equivalent. The President's Report (MOP) for the first adjustment operation - Karnataka Economic
Restructuring Loan/Credit (KERLI) - laid out the Government of Karnataka's multi-year fiscal and
governance reform program which the Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL) would support.
2.   As per the KERLI MOP, Bank support in the first year of the reform program has been split into two
parts. While the financing support required from the Bank for the Government of Karnataka (GoK) fiscal
year 2001/02 (April 2001-March 2002) was identified in the MOP as US$250 million, the first loan/credit
was only for US$150 million equivalent, leaving a balance of US$100 million to be financed by a second
loan/credit, the Second Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit (KERL2).
3.   GoK's fiscal and governance reform milestones for 2001/02 were summarized in the KERLI MOP.
Since the Board approval of KERLI, the environment for reforms in Karnataka has not been positive, with
a global slowdown, a slowdown in the Indian economy, and a slowdown in the Karnataka economy
exacerbated by a serious summer drought in 2001. However, GoK has made good progress with its reform
programme, and has largely achieved all its reform milestones for 2001/02.
4.   This Report provides an update on Karnataka's reform program, and its broader context, for the GoK
2001/02 fiscal year, i.e., from April 2001.
I. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
5.   India is expected to register growth of about 5% in the fiscal year 2001/02, good by global standards,
but below the average annual growth rate of 6% achieved over the last decade. Causes for the slowdown in
growth include the global slowdown, negative investor sentiment due to the slow pace of reforms at the
national level, weak agricultural demand on the back of successive poor agricultural seasons, and the oil
price rises last year. The growth slowdown has hit the fiscal position hard. The central government's tax
revenues for the first eight months of 2001/02 were 3% below the figure for the first eight months of last
fiscal year, resulting in likely fiscal slippage in the current fiscal year. Overall, at about 10% of GDP, the
size of the combined central and state government deficit is a matter of substantial concern. However,
India's macroeconomic vulnerability continues to be contained by a strong external position, and low
inflation. The current account balance is only about -0.5% of GDP. Reserves are US$49 billion or 9 months
of imports (January 2002). The largely closed capital account and low and declining external debt as a
percentage of GDP continue to contain India's vulnerability to shocks. The inflation rate is low at around
5% p.a. or below, and has been declining in recent years.
6.   There is an increasing recognition of the importance of state reforms to solve India's national
economic problems, including the large national fiscal deficit (where the states' share is now close to one-
half). Significant progress is being made in a number of important areas to strengthen the incentives facing
states to undertake fiscal reforms:



2
*  The Government of India (Gol)'s Fiscal Reform Facility (FRF) has taken off. Eleven states have
so far received additional funding from Gol on the basis of improved fiscal performance.
* An effort is being made in the power sector to harden budget constraints, improve governance and
instill discipline, and prevent states from avoiding power reforms through running arrears with
central utilities and suppliers (such arrears now constitute over 2% of GDP). Gol has proposed a
plan for securitization of overdue payables of the SEBs to the central government owned power
and coal companies and an incentive-based program to achieve performance targets, to which
states have begun to sign up.
7.   Karnataka's economy slowed in 2001/02, especially in the export-oriented IT sector, and the private
sector expresses uncertainty about the timing of recovery. Karnataka also had a serious "once in a decade"
drought in the summer similar to earlier major droughts experienced in 1972 and 1985-87. Advance
estimates for 2001/02 indicate a sharp drop in agricultural output of 8% over the previous year (in constant
prices). Aggregate GSDP growth for Karnataka for 2001/02 is estimated at 3.1% in constant prices and
5.5% in current prices, well below the historical average (average real growth for the last five years is about
7.5%).
8.  IMF perspective. The May 2001 staff report for the 2001 Article IV consultation noted that,
notwithstanding India's relatively strong growth performance in 2000/01, there remain important
impediments to achieving the Government's objectives of higher growth and faster poverty reduction. The
staff report cited fiscal consolidation and implementation of the central Government's agenda for structural
reform as two critical prerequisites for achieving these objectives. On the fiscal front, the staff stressed the
need for a clear and time-bound program of fiscal deficit reduction, and supported the authorities' stated
objective of eliminating the revenue deficits of the central and state governments. Expenditure and tax
reforms to reduce subsidies and enhance revenue mobilization were recommended. A broad range of
structural reforms was also seen as necessary to support fiscal consolidation and to enable India to benefit
from the globalization of trade and investment flows. Key measures identified included deregulation of
power, industrial, and labor markets, liberalization and reform of agriculture, trade liberalization, and
continued financial sector reforms. The importance of these key messages has been reinforced recently,
with signs of a further weakening of economic activity and a weaker growth outlook, difficulty in following
through on the structural reform commitments in the last budget, evidence that 2001/02 fiscal targets will
be missed, and the uncertain global environment.
9.   Recent political developments. The present federal government, a 24-party coalition in office since
September 1999, has been more stable than its predecessors. Although the reform pace has been slow, the
need for reform is now accepted across the political spectrum, and recently a number of important reforms
have been implemented by Gol in a range of areas such as privatization and agricultural liberalization.
Different ruling parties in a number of states are also pursuing reform programs. Reforms in some states
outpace those of the central government, and several state governments have shown considerable
determination in backing reforms in the face of opposition and strikes.
II. KARNATAKA'S REFORM PROGRAM AND THE BANK'S ASSISTANCE
A. Karnataka's Reform Program
10. Karnataka is India's 8th largest state, with a population of 53 million. It is one of India's states which
has most benefited from the liberalization of the nineties. Average real economic growth in the 1980s at
4.8% was below the all-India average of 5.4%; but growth in the 1990s averaged 6.9%, above the all-India
figure of 6.1%. However, Karnataka is still a relatively poor state, with per capita income (at US$410)
around the level of the national average. Official estimates (presented in Table 1) suggest that Karnataka is
less poor than the all-India average, but altemative estimates suggest that Karnataka's rural poverty, while



3
declining over the mid-nineties, is actually above the all-India average.' Kamataka's performance with
respect to key social indicators has been better than the rest of the country. Illiteracy, infant mortality rates,
and gender differentials tend to be lower than in the rest of the country (Table 1). Similarly, results from the
1998/99 National Family Health Survey suggest that improvements in infant and child mortality, nutrition
status, and other indicators of well-being have been more rapid in Kamataka than in the rest of India.
Kamataka suffers from sharp intra-state disparities with the northem region having the highest
concentration of poverty, and worst human development indicators.
Table 1. Karnataka: Per Capita Income and Social Indicators in Selected Years
Year
Indicators                    1980          1990          2000
All India  Per Capita Income (1993/94 Rs.)             5,891         8,266         11,799
Infant Mortality Rate (per '000 live births)  114           80            72
Literacy Rate                                44             52            65
Female Literacy Rate                         30             39            54
Poverty Headcount Rate (%)                   44.8          36.0          26.1
(1983)       (1993/94)     (1999/00)
Karnataka    Per Capita Income (1993/94 Rs.)             5,723         7,435         12,077
Infant Mortality Rate (per'000 live births)  81             74            58
Literacy Rate                                46             56            67
Female Literacy Rate                         33             44            57
Poverty Headcount Rate (%)                   38.2          33.2          20.0
(1983)       (1993/94)     (1999/00)
Notes: The data pertain to the years 1980, 1990, and 1998 for IMR; 1981, 1991, and 2001 for Literacy Rate and Female Literacy Rate; and 1983, 1993-94, and
1999/00 for poverty headcount rates. Sources: Infant Mortality Rate from Registrar General of India, Sample Registraton System; Literacy Rate and Female
Literacy Rate from Census of India. Per Capita Income: GDP from CSO, and Populaton from Census of India. Poverty Headcount Rates: Planning Commission.
Note that due to data problems, 1993/94 and 1999/00 poverty rates may not be comparable.
11.  After its election to power in late 1999, a Congress Party-led govemment has launched a
comprehensive reform program aimed at eradication of poverty through high economic growth tempered
with equity. GoK's ten-point reform program was set out by the Chief Minister in his March 2000 and 2001
budget speeches (Box 1).
Box 1. Karnataka's 10-Point Reform Program
1.  The topmost priority, to eradicate poverty, empower women, and provide food and nutritional security for
vulnerable sections.
2.  To achieve a minimum 7-8% growth per annum for the next five years.
3.  To strengthen the foundations of agriculture and give it a new momentum.
4.  To expand irrigation and utilize irrigation potential created more effectively.
5.  To expand the state's infrastructure, through more resources but, equally important, through better management,
and innovative organizational mechanisms.
6.  To mount an assault on social backwardness.
7.  To provide a conducive climate for new investments.
8.  To provide the people of Kamataka with a transparent, responsible, responsive and decentralized government.
9.  To mainstream the backward regions, particularly in the north, into the development process.
10. To develop a fiscal system that serves the needs of the poor, a pattern of public expenditures that addresses
pressing socio-economic concerns, and that keeps the state away from a debt trap.
See Annex G of the KERLI MOP for an analysis of poverty in Karnataka.



4
Fiscal and Governance Reforms
12. The Kamataka's fiscal and governance reform strategy is two-pronged. As articulated in the GoK
2001/02 Governance Strategy and Action Plan, the strategy aims to: "(i) Rationalize the role of the state to
focus on the most critical public goods and services which the private market cannot effectively supply, and
(ii) Enhance the effectiveness, transparency and accountability by which the state performs this role." As
summarized in GoK's Letter of Development Policy (Annex A), the various components of Kamataka's
fiscal and governance reform program can be summarized under four headings:
* The fiscal and public expenditure reforms include a multi-year framework for fiscal adjustment, as
well as reforms to improve fiscal transparency, tax and expenditure policies, public expenditure
management, financial accountability, and procurement transparency, with the objectives of
restoring the state's financial health, creating additional fiscal space for high-priority expenditures,
and promoting more efficient and transparent management of the government's financial resources.
*  The administrative reforms focus on civil service reforms, freedom of information, service agency
reforms, anti-corruption initiatives, decentralization, and e-governance, with the objectives of
improving the efficiency and transparency by which government conducts its business and delivers
services.
*  The private sector development component focuses on improving the business environment
through deregulation and privatization/closure of public enterprises.
*  The poverty monitoring and statistical strengthening component supports the better use of data in
policy making through development of a poverty and human development monitoring system,
increased emphasis on program evaluation, and strengthening of the state's statistical system.2
13. Reform achievements in 2000/01 and 2001/02. Karnataka's first phase of reforms, which was
largely completed in the (Indian) 2000/01 fiscal year, centered on defining a multi-year strategy and
framework, as well as key initial actions. Focus in 2001/02 shifted to implementation and achievement of
results. Progress in 2001/02 is described in detail in Section III. In brief, actions taken in 2000/01 have been
sustained, significant implementation progress has been made, and the overall fiscal and govemance reform
program has gained momentum. One is now starting to see the tangible results of reform. Despite a difficult
environment for fiscal adjustment (India's slowdown and the state's drought have both had a significantly
negative impact - paras. 5-7), GoK is on track to meet its nominal consolidated deficit target for 2001/02.
Underlying the fiscal adjustment achieved to date, and providing a foundation for further adjustment in the
coming years, are a number of structural measures taken by the Government, including revenue reforms,
expenditure restraint, protection of high-priority expenditures, reforms to promote procurement
transparency and improve financial and fiscal management and discipline, and more comprehensive, public
and timely fiscal reporting, including of off-budget liabilities. Administrative reforms have also made real
progress: there has been a drastic cut-back on transfers of civil servants, a leading cause of politicization
and inefficiency; service delivery in a number of key areas has improved; and the fight against corruption
has been intensified. In the area of private sector development, GoK has started closing and selling its
commercial enterprises, and making severance payments to redundant workers, and is taking concrete steps
to improve the investment climate through business deregulation.
2   The definition of this component has broadened since KERL 1 on account of the increased emphasis now being
given to statistical strengthening and program evaluation. The definition of the other components is the same as
in KERL1.



5
Power Sector Reforms
14. Power sector reforms are critical to Kamataka's fiscal adjustment, as well as its growth prospects.
The sector's poor financial performance is primarily a result of high theft and technical losses (estimated
officially at 33%, but possibly above 40%, similar to the level observed in many Indian states) and a heavy
subsidy to agriculture (with the agricultural tariff covering only 10% of the cost of power supply). Despite
a difficult environment emanating from the serious summer drought in 2001 and agitations associated with
crop failure, power sector reforms have made progress in the 2001/02 fiscal year, albeit with delays.
However, the reform process is still at an early stage, and the trend of financial deterioration has not yet
been reversed. Progress made by the Govemment in 2000/01 is detailed in its Letter of Development Policy
(Annex A), and summarized briefly below:
*  Power sector restructuring and privatization. In preparation for privatization of distribution,
GoK has decided to unbundle the Kamataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL)
into one transmission and four regional distribution companies. The companies are expected to be
created in March 2002, and to start operating independently during 2002/03.
*  Tariff adjustment. KPTCL filed in November 2001 with the Kamataka Electricity Regulatory
Commission (KERC) for a 23% average increase in the electricity tariff (on top of a 17% increase
awarded in January, 2001). After interaction with the regulator on the financing requirements of
the sector, KPTCL refiled in February, 2002 for a 30% increase. The tariff filing is now being
considered by the KERC for validation and the tariff order is expected to be issued in May/June
2002. The 65% increase in agricultural tariffs awarded in January 2001 by KERC, but deferred by
the Govemment for a year, has now been made effective.
*  Theft and loss reduction. Collection efficiency (the ratio of bills paid to bills issued) fell in the
first half of the fiscal year largely on account of the Government decision to stop disconnections
for non-paying consumers in drought-affected areas. However, this decision has now been
reversed in the majority of the state, and collection efficiency is expected to improve. Other
measures taken by the Govemment in the course of the fiscal year include: initial, albeit delayed,
implementation of the state's universal metering policy; amendment to the Electricity (Supply) Act
to strengthen its anti-power-theft provisions; and a crackdown on abuse of KPTCL's subsidized
scheme for poor residential households.
15. Power sector finances. The financial position of the power sector has worsened from 1997/98,
largely due to a rapid increase in power purchase costs, and a large increase in power supply to subsidized
customers. In 2001/02, the financial performance of the power sector was targeted to improve, but in fact
further deteriorated (Figure 1) on account of the summer drought, which reduced hydro availability
(pushing up costs) and delayed the Govemment's tariff filing. While the continued deterioration in power
sector finances is a source of serious concem, the Govemment did take strong corrective action in October,
2001 with the introduction of supply regulation to prevent a rapid and unaffordable growth in power
supply to subsidized consumers. This measure seems to have averted a much larger increase in power
sector losses which threatened the state earlier in the fiscal year. (For further discussion of the fiscal impact
of the power sector, see the discussion on GoK's fiscal performance in 2001/02 in para. 30.) Financial tum-
around in the power sector is now expected to begin in 2002/03 (Figure 1 and Annex D).



6
Figure 1 Karnataka Power Sector Finances (Rs bn)
15
l0
5
0
-5 FY 97  *.F-Y98    FY 99    FY 00            FY 02  -FY 03     FY 04   .FY 05
-10                               -
-15
-20
-25 .--...-
Earnings before interest, depreciation and appropriation (EBIDT A) ------- Profit after tax (without subsidy)
Note: Thesefigures consolidate thefinances of Karnataka 's transmission and distribution company with the state's generation
company.
16. Next phase of reforms. GoK's Letter of Development Policy (Annex A) details the Govemment's
plans for power sector reforms in the coming year, 2002/03, which are again summarized briefly below:
*  Privatization. GoK plans to finalize its approach to privatization, in particular, the risk allocation
between the govemment and the distribution companies. To increase regulatory certainty, the
Govemment is also considering moving to a multi-year tariff framework - this would require
appropriate legislative changes.
*  Financial recovery. The Govemment aims to return to operational break-even for the sector as a
whole (KPTCL and KPCL) by 2002/03, on assumption of approval of the current tariff filing (see
para. 32 on the risks in this regard). To sustain the financial recovery, another annual tariff filing by
the power utilities will need to be made for the 2003/04 fiscal year.
*   Theft and loss reduction. Progress in the following areas is expected: GoK will crack down on
power theft using the new anti-theft amendments; the universal metering drive will continue;
energy audits will be carried out on urban feeders; and better estimates obtained of agricultural
consumption.
*  Subsidy targeting and delivery. KPTCL has started to charge rich farmers higher power tariffs than
for poorer farmers, and this is expected to be expanded in the coming fiscal year. Altemative
delivery mechanisms will also be explored for the remaining subsidies to make the transfers
involved more explicit and direct.
Other Sectoral Reforms
17. The Govemment's Letter of Development Policy (Annex A) outlines the progress GoK has made in
other sectors. A brief summary follows below:
* To improve agricultural productivity, new extension and support systems have been developed;
private sector investment is being attracted into agro-business; and deregulation is being pursued.
* In the road sector, maintenance of the entire state highways network has been handed over to the
private sector through a series of multi-year contracts - a first for India.



7
*  Education. A special program has been launched for the educationally-backward districts in the
north of the state. Initiatives have been taken to rationalize student-teacher ratios across the state,
reduce teacher absenteeism, strengthen teacher training, and improve the curriculum and
assessment system. GoK has completed a series of education studies covering a range of sub-
sectors from elementary to tertiary education with the aim of developing a new strategy for the
sector. These studies have been completed, with analytical assistance from the Bank. The overall
sector report summarizing the various studies will be launched at a high-level workshop in
February, 2002, and is expected to guide reform efforts in the sector in coming years.
*  Health. GoK is enhancing transparency in the recruitment and appointment of staff, filling vacant
posts of doctors and paramedics, particularly in rural areas, retaining funds from user fees at district
and areas hospitals, monitoring the performance of health facilities, and increasing the budget for
drugs.
* Water. Karnataka is India's second most arid state, and faces major challenges in the water sector.
A Groundwater Bill, to protect drinking water sources, was passed in 1999, but is still awaiting Gol
approval. A number of important reforms have been introduced in the rural water supply sector
(cost-sharing, community participation, decentralization, improved monitoring). In the urban water
supply sector, GoK has already announced its plans to invite private sector participation through a
regional utility approach. GoK decided in December, 2001 to increase water tariffs in Bangalore by
45%, the first increase in 5 years.
B. Bank's Support to Karnataka's Reform Program
18. The India Country Assistance Strategy highlights three strategic principles to guide the Bank
Group's assistance program, namely, selectivity, reliance on partnerships, and adoption of a programmatic
approach. Based on the selectivity principle, the strategy focuses on reforming states, something which
started with the previous CAS, and which was endorsed by the recent Country Assistance Evaluation for
India. Karnataka is one of the reforming states which the Bank supports.
19. The India CAS also reflects an increased emphasis on fiscal and governance reforms, the former
following from India's fiscal deterioration in the second half of the nineties, and the latter from an
emerging consensus in India that without better performance, governments will have neither the credibility
to persuade their citizens to pay taxes, nor the capability to convert public resources into growth. The final
aspect of the CAS relevant to this operation is an increased reliance on programmatic lending.
Programmatic budgetary support combines the flexibility necessary in India's political environment with a
medium-term approach required to implement India's deep and difficult structural reform agenda. It allows
for a tighter focus on policies, a better link between Bank support and the budget, and provides important
financial backing to state-level reform programs.
20. Assistance to Karnataka. The Bank's program of assistance to Kamataka has three characteristics:
(i) it is aligned to the Govemment's reform program; (ii) it focuses on poverty reduction, with a particular
geographical emphasis on the poorer, arid regions of the state; and (iii) it is programmatic, with a sequence
of interventions designed to further reforms. Further, as outlined in the India CAS, power and
fiscal/governance reforms are critical to any state government's poverty reduction efforts. Progress with
respect to these twin pillars of reform will determine the size and scope of Bank assistance to Karnataka (as
in other Bank partner states), including not only adjustment, but also investment operations. In other words,
adequate progress with power sector reforms is a pre-requisite for the Bank's entire financial assistance to
Karnataka. Progress in relation to power sector reforms is summarized in paras. 14-16 above, as well as in
the Letter of Development Policy (Annex A). As indicated therein, though there have been delays,
especially with respect to the tariff filing and universal metering program, there has also been significant
progress in power sector reforms, as well as the overall reform program. Further significant progress is
expected in 2002/03 in all key power sector reform areas, as summarized in para. 16. Progress in these



8
areas will be important in determining the size of the overall Bank program in Karnataka in the coming
year.
21. Non-lending services. The Bank's analytical work on Kamataka has both deepened and widened
since KERL 1. An education financing report and a procurement assessment have been completed, and their
recommendations largely endorsed by the Govemment. Three other formal (AAA) reports are being
initiated: (i) a state financial accountability and management study; (ii) a study of fiscal decentralization in
the state, and (iii) a study of power pricing and access in agriculture. In addition to these formal reports, the
Bank has produced several smaller policy notes on Kamataka, relating to fiscal issues, estimation and
forecasting of state output, and labor market conditions. The Bank has also helped sponsor/arrange various
workshops, including on rural decentralization, urban water supply reform, program monitoring and
evaluation, and state output estimation and forecasting. These have been targeted to help GoK develop its
reform program, and have been effective in giving momentum to new areas of reform.
22. Since April 2001, two new areas of dialogue have been opened between the Government and the
Bank, relating to the environment and communications:
*  Environment. A program of collaboration has been initiated between the Bank and the
Government. Priority areas are: (i) a comprehensive state of environment report for Karnataka; (ii)
a functional review of the Environment Department and its agencies; (iii) use of innovative policy
instruments to combat industrial pollution; and (iv) computerization of the Karnataka State
Pollution Control Board.
*  Communications. In April 2001, the Bank undertook a "communications audit" of the
Govemment's reform program. Based on discussions of that audit with the Govenmment, GoK is
now preparing a communications strategy for engaging key stakeholders. While a communications
strategy is already being implemented for power sector reforms, the Government is now planning a
more holistic campaign to win and sustain support for its reform package.
23. Lending. Three projects benefiting Karnataka were approved in the Bank FY01: KERLI, the State
Highways Improvement Project, and the Karnataka Rural Watershed Development Project. All three
projects are progressing well. In FY02, in addition to the proposed KERL2, Kamataka Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation n1 was approved by the Bank on December 18, 2001, and the Karnataka Community Tanks
Development Project was appraised in January 2002. Preparation has also begun for a state health project.
Preparation for an urban water reform project has been slow, but a breakthrough has now been made with
agreement to establish regional water utilities, the operation of which would be bid out to the private sector.
III. KARNATAKA'S FISCAL AND GOVERNANCE REFORMS: A PROGRESS REPORT
24. KERLI, which was approved by the Board in June 2001, largely focused on actions completed in the
Indian 2000/01 fiscal year, though a few actions were completed in early 2001/02. KERL2 focuses on
actions taken subsequent to KERL1 in the current fiscal year, 2001/02. The Govermment's Letter of
Development Policy summarizes progress in the reform program in 2001/02 (Annex A), and the
Government's multi-year policy matrix (Annex B) gives details. The sub-sections following provide an
update on each of the four components of the Program.
A. Fiscal Reforms and Public Expenditure Management
Summary
25. The Restructuring Program targets a reduction in the consolidated fiscal deficit of GoK, covering off-
budget as well as on-budget liabilities (e.g., the power sector financing requirement). Despite various
difficulties (including the drought, and a large shortfall in tax devolutions from the central govermment on



9
account of the economic slowdown), the deficit-reduction targets set for 2001/02 are likely to be adhered
to, with the consolidated deficit likely to come in at around the target of Rs 73 billion, reversing a trend of
increasing deficits (as a percentage of state output) since the mid-nineties, and setting the stage for further
substantial reductions in the coming years. Underlying the fiscal adjustment achieved to date, and
providing a foundation for further adjustment in the coming years, are a number of structural measures
being taken by the Government. Revenue reforms are making good progress, and own-tax growth is
relatively strong. Expenditure restraint has continued, expenditure risks are being managed, and actuals for
2000/01 confirm that priority expenditure areas were protected in that year. The 2001/02 Medium-Term
Fiscal Plan (MTFP) has been well publicized, and is now being revised and expanded for issuance next
year. Integration of the MTFP and the budget is proceeding, and greater focus is being given to
departmental ceilings to promote accountability at the departmental level. A draft Fiscal Responsibility Bill
has been drawn up to provide legislative backing to the MTFP, and is expected to be tabled in the State
Legislature in the 2002/03 budget session. The Transparency in Public Procurement Act is being
implemented, despite considerable resistance. A Karnataka Procurement Assessment has been completed,
and GoK has established a Procurement Policy Cell to implement its recommendations. Karnataka has
become the first Indian state to establish a functioning Controller of Accounts Management Office to lead
the modernization of its financial system. A state-level financial management accountability report has
been initiated, and work is underway in a number of priority financial management areas. Contingent debt
liabilities are being contained by continued adherence to Karnataka' s legislated cap on guarantees. Fiscal
reporting, both to the public (on the internet) and internally, through a new monthly monitoring system, has
become much more up-to-date and comprehensive (covering off-budget as well as on-budget liabilities)
and has helped instill a greater sense of fiscal discipline in the Govemment. The paragraphs following
detail the fiscal correction and structural reforms achieved in 2001/02.
Fiscal Correction
26. Karnataka's fiscal position has traditionally been stronger than that of many Indian states. Its fiscal
indicators have been well above average. Karnataka has not, unlike many states, run out of cash and been
forced to resort to overdrafts with RBI or liquidity support from Gol. However, the state's fiscal situation
deteriorated sharply in the second half of the nineties. Reversing this deterioration, and thereby averting a
fiscal crisis, is one of the main aims of the Government's overall reform program.
27. Understanding Karnataka's fiscal position requires looking well beyond conventional budgetary
deficits. Karnataka is one of several Indian states which, in order to gain access to additional sources of
finance, has in the past made extensive use of off-budget borrowing for infrastructure projects for which
debt servicing reverts fully to the budget. In addition, Karnataka, again like many states, has a significant
and rapidly growing liability in the power sector, which in the past has only been partially funded by the
budget (the remainder being financed by arrears and/or utility borrowings). To capture these off-budget
liabilities, the fiscal reforms track the state's "consolidated fiscal deficit," which combines the budget
deficit, off-budget deficit, and that part of the power sector financing requirement funded by borrowing and
accumulation of arrears.
28.  2000/01 showed the first signs of improvement in the state's budgetary position. This was reported in
the KERL I MOP on the basis of revised data. Actual data for 2000/01 confirm the reduction showing
budgetary fiscal deficit of Rs 42.2 billion (4.0% of GSDP) down from Rs 42.8 billion (4.4% of GSDP) in
1999/00. However, as noted in the KERL 1 MOP, despite the improvement in the budgetary position,
Karnataka' s consolidated fiscal position worsened in 2000/01, due to a worsening of the off-budget
position. The consolidated deficit for 2000/01 was Rs 71 billion or 6.7% of GSDP, up from Rs 63 billion
(6.6% of GSDP) in 1999/00, but significantly better than the Rs 74.5 billion (7.2% of GSDP) estimated at
the time of the KERLI MOP.
29. GoK's 2001/02 target for the consolidated deficit is Rs 73.2 billion (6.2% of GSDP with normal
growth, but 6.7% of GSDP given the slow industrial growth and drought this year). GoK's deficit position
is monitored by the Finance Department on a monthly basis. 2001/02 has been a difficult fiscal year, with



10
the economic slowdown and drought leading to a revenue shortfall of over 1% of GSDP and putting
upward pressure on the power sector financing requirement. However, with corrective measures put in
place (see para. 30), the latest estimate for 2001/02 for the consolidated fiscal deficit is Rs 74.3 billion, just
1.5% above target (see Table 2). This adherence to the program's 2001/02 consolidated fiscal target in
absolute terms is a significant accomplishment, in light of the very adverse environment, and one which
sets the stage for further substantial deficit reductions in the coming years. The non-power deficit is on
track for a reduction as a percentage of state output from 4.6% of GSDP in 2000/01 to 4.3% in 2001/02.
See Annex C for further details on Kamataka's evolving fiscal position.
Table 2. Karnataka Fiscal Deficits: 1997/98-2004/05
-Economnic Restructuring Program --
1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01   2001-02      2002-03 2003-04 2004-05
GoK
Actuals        Actuals  target Estimate       Projections
Rs bilion
A. Non-power deficit (=1+2-4a)                       16.7    27.9   45.2    49.0    49.6    47.7    50.2    52.4   42.4
1. Budgetary Fiscal deficit                          14.7   28.5    42.8   42.2     51.3   51.4     57.4   62.2    55.1
la. ofwhichbudgetasysupporttoKPTCL               6.0    6.7    7.7     8.7     19.6   19.6     19.3    15.4   9.3
2. Off-budget(infrassoctrusc) borrowing               8.1    6.1    10.1    15.5    18.0    16.0    12.1     5.5   -3.4
B. Power sector (KPTCL) filnancing requirement        8.2    13.0   18.1    22.0    23.6    26.6    20.4    16.5   13.9
ofwhichoperatingeanings                          2.1   -2.2    -5.1  -10.3    -11.9  -16.1     -7.5    0.8     6.7
Consolidated deficit (=A+B)                          24.9    40.9   63.3    71.0    73.2    74.3    70.5    68.9   56.4
Memo: Power sector (KPTCL) borrowing (=B-la)          2.2     6.3   10.4    13.3     4.0     7.0     1.1     1.1    4.6
% GSDP
A. Non-power deficit (-1+2-la)                        2.3    3.2     4.7     4.6     4.2     4.3     4.1     3.8    2.7
1. Budgetary Fiscal deficit                           2.0    3.2     4.4    4.0      4.3    4.6      4.7    4.5     3.5
la. ofwhichbudgetasysupporttoKPTCL               0.8    0.8    0.8     0.8      1.7    1.8      1.6    1.1     0.6
2.Off-budget(infrastructure)borrowing                 1.1     0.7    1.1     1.5     1.5     1.4     1.0     0.4   -0.2
B. Power sector (KPTCL) financing requirement         1.1     1.5    1.9     2.1     2.0    2.4      1.7     1.2    0.9
ofwhichloperatingeamnings                        0.3   -0.2    -0.5   -1.0     -1.0   -1.4     -0.6    0.1     0.4
Consolidated deflcit (=A+B)                           3.5    4.7     6.6     6.7     6.2     6.7     5.7     4.9    3.6
Memo: Power sector (KPTCL) borrowing(B-lo)            0.3     0.7    1.1     1.3     0.3     0.6     0.1     0.1    0.3
Memo: Nominal GSDP growth                                  10.0%  22.7%    9.8%    14.5%   5.5%    11.8%  12.9%   12.9%
Notes: All borrowing figures are on a net basis. Off-budget (infrastructure) borrowing is borrowing for infrastructure projects by
public sector enterprises, the full debt-service burden of which will fall to the budget. The non-power deficit excludes the fiscal
burden of the power sector from the fiscal deficit. The power sector financing requirement is defined as revenues of KPTCL,
Karnataka's main power utility (excluding government support) minus current and capital expenditures (excluding depreciation).
30. The key features of GoK's fiscal performance in 2001/02 include the following:
*    Robust tax growth. 12%        state's own tax growth has been recorded for the first nine months of the
fiscal year, down from 18% last fiscal year, but still impressive given the economic slowdown,
and negative tax growth at the central government level. (For details on revenue, see para. 34).
*    Despite this, a revenue shortfall of about Rs 14 billion is expected, due to a shortfall in tax
devolution from Gol owing to poor tax collections at the center.
*    Budget borrowing program          on track. Despite the revenue shortfall, GoK plans to adhere to its
original budgetary borrowing target. Data for the first nine months of 2001/02 indicate that the
gross budget borrowing has been limited to 73% of the target for the fiscal year. Borrowing from
small savings, which depends on volume of deposits by savers, threatens to exceed target, but
GoK has started rejecting offers of small savings from Gol to adhere to budgetary borrowing



11
targets: an indication of a shift from borrowing on the basis of availability to borrowing on the
basis of targets and affordability.
*  The combination of continued expenditure restraint and adherence to original borrowing targets
imply strong expenditure restraint. Up to the first eight months of the fiscal year, the fiscal
deficit was at less than half of the annual target. Expenditure cuts have been put in place to match
the revenue shortfall. GoK is trying, however, to protect priority expenditures. (For details on
expenditure, see paras. 39-0.)
*  This restraint in the expenditure side is reflected in the state's continued strong liquidity position.
Kamataka has continued its complete non-reliance on RBI's overdraft facilities. (The average
number of days for India's major states in overdraft with RBI has increased from 30 in 1997/98
to 100 in 2000/01.)
*  Restraining off-budget borrowing below target. Despite strong pressure to take up additional off-
budget borrowing, GoK has been disciplined in its use of off-budget borrowing (for infrastructure
projects: see para. 27), and in the first nine months of the current fiscal year, off-budget
borrowing has only been 52% of the annual target. GoK plans to limit the off-budget borrowing
below the targeted level so as to largely offset the anticipated over-shooting of the power sector
financing requirement. GoK's longer-tenn goal is to reduce reliance on off-budget borrowing,
and to eliminate it by 2004/05. Controls over off-budget borrowing have already been increased,
and further tightening is expected in 2002/03.
*  Limited growth in contingent debt liabilities has been made possible by adherence to Karnataka's
legislated guarantees cap - fixed at 80% of revenues from two years prior. This cap was reached
in 2000/01, thereby automatically limiting issuance of new guarantees to retirement of the old.
The fiscal discipline thereby implied is a vindication of providing legislative backing to fiscal
restraint. There has so far been no attempt to revise the cap upwards.
*  In the power sector, after nine months into the fiscal year, the KPTCL financing requirement is
about 7% below the running target. However, with the delay in the tariff filing and drought-
induced reduction in hydro availability, the actual financing requirement for the year is expected
to end about Rs 3.0 billion (13%) above the target of Rs 23.6 billion. From a fiscal perspective,
the introduction of supply regulation, to control supply to subsidized sectors to about the level of
last year, has been an important corrective measure, taken despite protest. It seems to have
averted the threat of a serious blow-out in the power sector financing requirement for the current
year, earlier predicted to amount to as much as Rs 10 billion.
*  Full payment ofpower sector subsidy budgetary allocation. The biggest difference between the
2000/01 and 2001/02 budgets is the increase in the power sector budgetary support allocation up
from Rs 9 billion to Rs 23 billion. This reflects the decision of GoK to fund power sector
financial losses on budget rather than to force the utility into costly borrowing and accumulation
of arrears to cover its losses. This is critical for building confidence of private investors in GoK's
privatization plan. The large increase in the power subsidy obligation is the reason for the budget
deficit increasing in 2001/02, even as the consolidated deficit falls. As mentioned earlier, the
"non-power" deficit (i.e. the consolidated deficit excluding the fiscal burden of the power sector)
is expected to fall from 4.6% in 2000/01 to 4.3% in 2001/02. Power sector subsidy obligations
are typically the first casualty of any expenditure cuts, but they are being largely protected in
Kamataka.
31.  One intangible, but important sign of progress in Kamataka's fiscal reform program is the
internalization of fiscal targets. The monthly monitoring established by the Finance Department has led to
far greater and earlier attention being given to indicators of fiscal slippage. The Finance Department has in
turn started briefing the Chief Minister, the Cabinet and civil servants on the state's fiscal position, all of



12
which has led to a much greater awareness of the state's fiscal position and risks, and to corrective
measures being taken earlier.
32. 2002/03 target. The target for the consolidated deficit in 2002/03 will be finalized at the start of the
fiscal year as the 2002/03 MTFP and budget are produced. The current forecast for the consolidated deficit
(including the power sector) is for a reduction from Rs 74.3 billion estimated for 2001/02 to Rs 70.5 billion
in 2002/03. With normal economic growth, this would imply a substantial reduction in the deficit as a
percentage of GSDP: from 6.7% in 2001/02 to 5.7% in 2002/03. The two main fiscal risks likely to face
Kamataka in 2002/03 are: (i) the possibility of another year of low economic growth adversely impacting
on tax collections and devolution from Gol; and (ii) fiscal risks from the power sector. In particular, with a
system of independent tariff regulation, it is not possible for the Government to fully control the size or
timing of tariff increases. If the tariff order of the state electricity regulator is, say, 5 percentage points
below what has been requested, this will increase the consolidated deficit by about Rs 2.2 billion. This risk
is not under GoK's control, but, to the maximum extent possible, countervailing measures will be taken by
the Government to minimize the impact on the consolidated deficit.
Transparency
33. Fiscal transparency was enhanced in 2001/02 by the release of additional budgetary information to
the public (e.g., covering off-budget borrowing, tax incentives, and arrears), the publication of monthly
fiscal accounts on the website, and changes in several budgetary conventions to reduce budgetary
complexity. The 2002/03 Budget Overview will be further expanded to aid public understanding and
include additional information.
Revenue Reforms
34. Although Karnataka has one of the highest tax/GSDP ratios in India, this ratio fell over the course of
the nineties. The goals of tax reform in the state are additional revenue mobilization and reduced
compliance costs. The strategies, covering both policy reforms and tax administration, are: rationalization,
base broadening, simplification, and computerization. GoK established a Tax Reforns Commission (TRC)
in 2000/01 with an internationally renowned membership. TRC has now produced its final report, which
provides a far-reaching and impressive agenda for tax reform to guide the Government in the coming years.
Short-term evidence of the success of Karnataka's tax reforms is reflected by 18% revenue growth last
fiscal year followed by 12% growth this fiscal year, well above the state's output growth rate. The robust
growth of revenue would seem to be largely attributable to an increased emphasis on enforcement, since
average rates have not been significantly increased.
35. The most significant revenue reform challenge facing Karnataka is the planned introduction of the
value added tax (VAT). In Kamataka, this will replace three taxes - the sales tax, the tumover tax, and the
entry tax - by one, and a multiplicity of rates by two main rates. VAT introduction at the state level is now
targeted for April 2003, in a coordinated effort involving all states. Kamataka has engaged intemational
consultants with Bank assistance and has already made considerable progress towards VAT introduction,
with further progress in this direction a major challenge for 2002/03. A significant reform introduced in
2001/02 in anticipation for VAT introduction was the extension of self-assessment to a larger proportion of
the tax-payer population, and the clearance of a three-year backlog in the scrutiny of dealer forms through
the introduction of retrospective self-assessment, significantly reducing harassment of taxpayers and
freeing considerable staff time for use in enforcement and audit.
36. Karnataka's other major taxes are excise, stamp duties and registration fees, and transport taxes. With
respect to excise, the major challenge is reduction of evasion, estimated to be as high as 50%. A start has
been made with a strengthening of the department's anti-evasion staff, and revenues are above target.
Further action, including increased reliance on e-govemance to reduce discretion, is expected in 2002/03,
based on Tax Reform Commission recommendations. GoK made considerable progress in 2001/02 in
implementing transport tax reforms, with a shift to ad valorem rates, rationalization of slabs, and reduction



13
of exemptions. A dispute between the state-owned bus companies and the Government on their subsidy
entitlement is expected to be resolved in 2002/03, through a survey of bus passengers to determine the
number of subsidized customers. Required reforms in stamps and registration are now starting, and are
expected to accelerate in 2002/03.
37. Tax administration. GoK has taken important steps to reduce tax-payer harassment. The Transport
Department has successfully computerized and re-engineered services, and produced a citizens' charter
(para. 65). Stamps and registration is now following suit. VAT introduction will lead to major
administrative changes, including self-assessment and computerization. The Government also plans to
computerize and ultimately integrate the physical check posts of the different tax departments, though
progress on this has been relatively slow.
38. Non-tax revenues and user charges. In 2000/01, user charges for a range of services were hiked. In
2001/02, a substantial increase in water charges in the capital city, Bangalore, was implemented. Further
increases in user charges are anticipated next fiscal year. Monitoring of non-tax revenues has improved to
put more pressure on line departments to collect, but needs to be further developed. The Tax Reforms
Commission (para. 34) has been asked to produce a follow-on report on non-tax revenue reforms.
Expenditure Reforms
39.   Expenditure restraint. 2001/02 is a year of reduced real discretionary budgetary resource
availability for two reasons: first, the decision of the Government to fully meet its power sector subsidy
obligation on budget, and, second, the economic slowdown, which is constraining revenue growth. On
account of these two factors, it is estimated that the GoK will enjoy in 2001/02 only Rs 2 billion of
additional resources available for spending in discretionary areas (excluding pensions and interest) - an
increase of only 1.5%. This will be more than consumed by cost-of-living increases for staff. While
subsidies (excluding power) are estimated to fall in absolute terms this year, cuts in non-wage operations
and maintenance and capital expenditure have been required to meet the government's deficit targets.
However, while this is an unavoidable consequence of the economic slowdown, it should be noted that
capital expenditure and non-wage O&M are still significantly higher than their 1999/00 (i.e. pre-program)
levels.
40. High-priority development expenditures, defined as elementary and secondary education, health,
roads and rural water supply, and non-wage O&M for irrigation and public buildings, are targeted to be
first protected and then expanded under the Restructuring Program. Actuals for 2000/01 show that the
high-priority expenditures were expanded in 2000/01 with real growth of about 7%, despite the overall
budget deficit reduction (Table 3). A similar result will not be possible to achieve in 2001/02 on account of
the tight expenditure position described in the previous paragraph. However, high priority areas have, in the
aggregate, been protected from cuts: latest estimates suggest modest nominal growth in high-priority
expenditures of about 3%, slightly above estimated inflation. Higher priority expenditures from 2002/03
onwards are expected in line with better Gol revenue performance, and a lower power sector subsidy
obligation.
Table 3 High Priority Development Expenditures /a
1999/00 2000/01 2001/02 2001/02 2002/03  2003/04  2004/05
Actuals Actuals  BE  Est Projection Projection Projection
High Priority Development Expenditures (Rs billion)  45.78  50.21  55.86  51.29  58.78  68.00  76.58
Real growth relative to base year (1999-00)   6.9%  17.1%  7.2%  18.3%  36.2%  49.3%
as Includes social sectors (school education, basic health) and basic infrastructure (water supply, roads, irrigation and buildlings maintenance.)



14
41. Key expenditure areas. This year, the subsidy study commissioned by GoK has been completed,
with expenditure reviews of major sectors. Experience in Karnataka and other states suggests that
expenditure controls and/or reforms are needed in five important areas (in addition to the power sector,
which is dealt with separately):
* Food subsidy. GoK stuck to its nominal subsidy cap of Rs 3 billion for its food subsidy in
2000/01, and the cap is expected to be adhered to again in 2001/02. GoK has begun a pilot
computerization of ration cards to reduce abuse of the scheme. Work under the Poverty Monitoring
System on the incidence of food subsidies will be useful to improve targeting (para. 82).
* Procurement of farm produce. Experience of the Government of India as well as other states
shows the extreme vulnerability of state finances to attempts to support farmers by buying their
produce to prop up producer prices. At the same time, the pressures from farmers on the state
government to purchase are extreme: each year sees at least some crop failure, and Karnataka is
only a marginal beneficiary of GoI's extensive farm procurement carried out through the Food
Corporation of India (FCI). GoK's policy is to purchase only produce (mainly limited to vegetables
and coarse cereals) not procured by Gol. Karnataka also acts as a procurement agent for FCI,
especially with respect to maize, an important crop. In 2000/01, net budgetary outlay on
procurement of farm produce was only Rs 0.1 billion, reflecting the prudent stance taken by GoK.
The outcome in 2001/02 is expected to be similar, although the risks remain high: this year the
copra crop has failed, and maize prices are again low.
* Government-aided colleges are another area of spending which has been controlled by GoK. The
Government originally sought to cut spending in this area last fiscal year by 15%, but this proved
politically difficult. It has since passed an order that posts which become vacant in government-
aided colleges will automatically become unaided posts so that, if filled, they will have to be
financed by the colleges themselves. Over time, this ought to reduce the fiscal burden of aided
colleges, which largely benefit better-off students. However, it runs the risk of leading to a
reduction in quality as the number of teacher vacancies may rise. A strategy needs to be evolved
which enables colleges to raise fees and keep the proceeds.
* Pension bill. One of the major fiscal risks facing all of India's states is a growing pension bill.
Over the last 10 years the number of pensioners (i.e. retired civil servants) in Karnataka has grown
at an average annual rate of 5.2%. GoK lacks the demographic data to project the pension bill with
accuracy, and is currently collecting the required data. With Bank assistance, a pension-forecasting
model is expected to be in place by April 2002. GoK will then be in a position to consider pension
reforms, a process that is also underway at the central government level.
*  Wage bill. GoK continues to exercise hiring restraint (para. 61). The main risk to the wage bill
comes from a potential large increase in salaries, as occurred in the late nineties following the
recommendation of the nationwide Fifth Pay Commission in 1997. Karnataka's state pay
commissions are normally every five years, which means the next one would be due in 2002.
Karnataka itself has a tradition of wage-restraint, and salaries for some groups of civil servants
(e.g. teachers) are notably lower in Karnataka than other states. Significant pay increases are not
expected from the next state pay commission, but this is an area where vigilance will be needed.
Public Expenditure Management Reforms
42. Karnataka has made progress in 2001/02 in this area, with help from an Australian-funded technical
assistance. However, there is still a very long way to go to improve the management of public spending.
The 2001/02 Medium-Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) has been widely disseminated, and has received positive
press coverage. A draft 2002/03 MTFP has been prepared. This will be finalized and released with the
2002/03 budget. Institutionalization of the MTFP is proceeding and the Expenditure Review Committee,
created last year to guide budget formulation, continues to be active. The Chief Minister announced in his



15
March 2001 budget speech the Government's intention to introduce a Fiscal Responsibility Bill to provide
legislative backing to the MTFP. A draft bill has been prepared and circulated for review. The Government
plans to table the Bill in the State Legislature in April 2002.
43. Departmental budgeting. GoK is shifting in the direction of departmental budgeting, in which
greater focus is placed on the total budget available to the department, and less on the individual line-items
which the department operates. At the moment, in most Indian states, certainly Karnataka, there is very
little concept of a departmental budget, but GoK is taking several steps in this direction:
*  Multi-year departmental budget plans (DMTFPs) are being developed on a pilot basis. Five
departments have been chosen as pilots: school education, health and family welfare, PWD,
medical education, and rural water supply.
*  To improve performance orientation, performance targets have been included in the DMTFPs,
which will be published to enhance accountability.
*  To increase flexibility in spending, object codes (which classify spending by type: salaries,
supplies, etc.) are being drastically reduced from their current level of 250. Finance also plans to
give Departments greater flexibility to re-allocate funds within broad heads.
*  GoK is considering realigning its system of appropriations along departmental lines to promote the
concept of departmental budgeting.
44. Supplementary budgets. The common practice in India of issuing large and frequent supplementary
budgets in the course of the fiscal year weakens accountability and softens budget constraints. As part of its
reform program, Karnataka has been reducing both the frequency and the size of its supplementary budgets,
and this trend is expected to be accelerated into 2002/03. As of this fiscal year, new proposals for the
supplementary budget of more than Rs 50 million will be reviewed by the Expenditure Review Committee
to improve the quality and reduce the size of supplementary budgets.
45. The accuracy of budget estimates is poor in Karnataka - actual deficits often exceed budget
estimates by a large amount. Tax forecasts are typically over-optimistic resulting in cash rationing during
the year, and either under-spending or an accumulation of arrears. Improving budgetary realism is therefore
a priority. This should lead to better revised estimates, and, therefore, to much better budget estimates and
projections. 2000/01 saw a reduced gap between budget estimates and actuals (e.g., revenue receipts were
97% of target, compared to the five-year average of 91%). Most importantly, the fiscal deficit was only 7%
above target, compared to the five-year average over-shoot of 28%. However, there is still scope for
improvement (e.g., this year's budget estimates for tax receipts were overly ambitious), and GoK is using
its improved monitoring to develop more realistic budget estimates in 2002/03.
Public Financial Accountability and Management
46. A preliminary public financial accountability assessment was carried out for Kamataka in 2000/01,
including review of the state's latest external audit reports and accounts. This and other work on fiscal
issues and public expenditure management indicated that GoK has reasonable foundations for a satisfactory
public financial accountability system. Major strengths of the system include: (i) the well-established
oversight role of the Legislature over public finances provided in the Constitution, including legislative
approval of annual budgets, and placing of annual accounts and audit report before the Legislature; (ii)
existence of detailed guidelines for budgeting and monitoring of the use of public funds; (iii) regular
preparation and compilation of accounting information, and presentation of annual State Accounts which
provide comprehensive information on expenditures and revenues. Information on public debts,
guarantees, loans and advances, and investments are also presented, albeit with varying quality; (iv) good
procedural controls over expenditures; and (v) the well established independence of the public auditor
Comptroller & Auditor General (C&AG) from the executive and its broad mandate. However, there is also
a need to strengthen and modernize the system to improve transparency, enable better financial and



16
operating performance measurement and reporting, have more effective legislative oversight and follow-up
on audit observations, address weaknesses in internal control and public accountability, clear backlog of
accounts and audit (in local bodies, public enterprises, and other government entities), and improve
accountability arrangements in local governments. Institutional arrangements in the state government to
coordinate and improve public financial accountability also need to be addressed.
47. In 2001/02, the Bank and GoK initiated a State Financial Accountability and Management Study
(SFAMS, covering Government departments, rural and urban local bodies, public enterprises, and other
government entities), whose findings and recommendations will be used to develop GoK's medium-term
public financial accountability modernization strategy and program, and define medium-term benchmarks.
This will be completed in 2002/03. In the interim, GoK has already been addressing a number of immediate
priorities already identified, such as addressing identified internal control weaknesses, clearing the backlog
of accounts and audits, improving the timeliness of financial reporting, computerizing key functions, and
establishing an Office of Controller (Accounts Management).
48. Internal control. The Government's report on measures to address key identified internal control
weaknesses, reconciliation, personal deposit accounts, loans and advances, and debts and guarantee
recording and reporting has been finalized, and implementation of its recommendations will shortly
commence. One particularly important recomnmendation is a ban on the use of Personal Deposit Accounts
to transfer funds from one fiscal year to another, the use of which leads to a lack of transparency and over-
states expenditure. This and other reforms in public accounts are expected to commence in 2002/03. The
Government is continuing efforts to clear the large backlog in accounts and audits for rural local
governments, the State hisurance Department, and public enterprises.
49. Financial reporting has traditionally been slow, at the cost of both effective financial management
and fiscal transparency. However, the timeliness of financial reporting has started to improve: monthly
statements are now placed on the Internet within two months of the end of each month. Summary 2000/01
accounts were placed on the Internet within about 7 months of the close of the year (provisional accounts
were placed after 5 months), a significant improvement on earlier years where the delay has been over the
order of 10-11 months. Karnataka's published accounts are compiled not by GoK, but by C&AG, a
constitutionally-independent national body. To further improve the timeliness and quality of financial
information will require the active collaboration of GoK treasuries and departments. Karnataka plans to
gradually develop its own accounting capability and to improve the timeliness and ownership of financial
management and public reporting.
50. Computerizing key accounting functions is key to improving the timeliness and reliability of
financial reporting, and to reducing opportunities for fraud, waste, and abuse. The top priority is to
computerizing and networking the state's 215 treasury offices, through which most government receipts
and payments are handled. This is progressing well and on schedule - the pilot phase began in January
2002, and the full roll-out is expected by June 2002. Computerization of accounts of Zilla Panchayats and
Taluk Panchayat (rural local bodies) is expected to commence soon.
51. Audit of the state government is the responsibility of C&AG, which also publishes the audit reports
on its website. GoK will continue to table in the Assembly and make available the annual audit reports as
soon as possible after receipt from C&AG (usually within 12 months of the end-fiscal year, as has been the
case for the last four years). Audit reports are examined by Committees of the Legislature; their
recommendations are placed before the Legislature, and thereafter the necessary follow-up actions are
taken by the Government. Audit responsiveness by GoK needs to be improved, and this will be one of the
main responsibilities of the newly-appointed Controller (Accounts Management) (see para. 52 below).
52. The pace of financial management reform is expected to pick up in 2002/03 now that the newly-
created Controller (Accounts Management) Office has started functioning, with the appointment of a full
time and qualified Controller. The Controller's Office has been created within the GoK Finance
Department to spearhead GoK's financial modernization drive, and to develop accounting and financial
management capability within the Government.



17
Procurement reforms
53. In October 2000, GoK passed a Transparency in Public Procurement Act, requiring all government
departments to follow more transparent procurement practices. The salutary impact of this bill can be
judged by the amount of resistance the bill has encountered, especially from local politicians. In 2001/02,
the Bank has completed a comprehensive procurement assessment for Kamataka. The Assessment
concludes that "The recent Act and [its] Rules have established a much-needed legal framework for public
procurement introducing transparency of process and accountability... The implementation of the Act and
the Rules has commenced in earnest but has a long way to go and it is too early to judge the impact of the
new regime. In fact, what is now needed is a vigorous implementation addressing all practical problems
and providing advice and guidance to all agencies." The Assessment provided a series of detailed
recommendations to guide implementation. A preliminary action plan has been drawn up to guide
procurement reforms over the next three years. GoK has also created a central procurement cell within the
Finance Department to implement GoK's procurement reform program.
B. Administrative Reforms
54. The objectives of GoK's administrative reforms are: (i) a smaller but more effective public
administration; (ii) a higher level of transparency and accountability, accompanied by fewer opportunities
for corruption; and (iii) more efficient and responsive delivery of essential public services.
55.  Karnataka's Administrative Reform Commission (ARC)'s first report provides detailed analysis and
recommendations for the Government to improve efficiency and transparency. Building on this report, the
Government's own strategy, the Governance Strategy and Action Plan (GSAP), is designed to provide a
road map for reforms in the coming year and beyond. The second and final ARC report was released in
December 2001. The GSAP is a rolling document, and a second GSAP will be prepared to guide
governance reforms in 2002/03.
Civil Service Reforms
56.  Civil service transfers. GoK has taken as its most immediate governance challenge a reduction in
the level of transfers of civil servants from one job to another. These transfers, which are typically
premature and politicized, disrupt the functioning of public administration, undermine the ability of civil
servants to commit themselves to the job, and lead to significant opportunities for corruption. Transfers
reached an astounding 50,000 in 2000/01, meaning that about one in ten civil servants was transferred. In
response to this, the Chief Minister announced in his March 2001 budget speech a general ban on transfers
in 2001/02. Data for the first six months of the current fiscal year show a dramatic decline in transfers to
just 8,400.3
57.  While this is an impressive achievement, GoK still faces the challenge of sustaining this reduced
volume of transfers. Historical data show that there have been "low transfer" years earlier in the nineties,
but never two in a row. To address this challenge, the Government has introduced systemic reforms to
reduce transfers at all levels. First, it has established a public monitoring system of transfers, the first of its
kind in India, disaggregated by department and class of civil servant and updated six monthly.4 The system
is expected to improve transparency and act as a check on the volume of transfers. Second, GoK in
November 2001 issued new rules governing transfers:
3   Because most transfers occur during April and May, the number of transfers for the full fiscal year (April 1-
March 31) is unlikely to differ significantly from that for the first half of the fiscal year.
4   See http://vsb.kar.nic.in.



18
*  Transfers at all levels of the civil service will need to be authorized by cadre management
committees. Since these committees are staffed primarily by senior civil servants, they are expected
to act as an institutional check on political interference, and to be less prone to manipulation from
the outside. The cadre management committees will have to provide reasons for granting any
transfer requests outside April and May (when transfers are meant to occur) and also obtain the
approval of the Chief Minister.
*  Minimum tenures for Group A posts of the civil service have been raised to three years, Group B to
four years, Group C to five years, and Group D to seven years, respectively. Premature transfers
are banned except for very narrowly defined exceptions.
*  The Government is now authorized to ban transfers for certain cadres, such as teachers and nurses.
58.  These steps are certainly far-reaching, setting an example for other Indian states, and providing hope
that the reduction in transfers seen this year can be sustained in the coming years. Implementation of the
new rules will be key. Immediate next steps are: the issuance of cadre transfer bans; and creation of the
Cadre Management Committees; and a possible extension of the current year ban.
59. The Government has also taken steps to enhance transparency in recruitment by issuing rules to
reduce the weight given to interviews, and thus the element of discretion. The Education Department,
which is the government's largest employer and main recruiter, has gone one step further this fiscal year,
with the introduction of a common entrance test for all candidate teachers, thus reducing the element of
discretion associated with individual college tests.
60.  In 2002/03, civil service reform objectives will include the rationalization of public
administration, with a reduction of overlapping and duplicating initiatives and structures. This year, the
Administrative Reforms Commission (ARC) commissioned functional reviews of 13 major departments.
These reviews, now completed, were entrusted to three outside agencies. The findings of the reviews have
been incorporated in the second ARC report (para. 55). Implementation of these functional reviews is likely
to begin through one or two pilot departments in 2002/03.
61. Rightsizing. Karnataka has one of the smallest civil services on a per capita basis among Indian
states (as well as by international standards). Strict restrictions on recruitment have been in place for
several years, and have remained in place this fiscal year, with exceptions only on a priority basis (e.g., for
teachers). Civil service size fell marginally last year by 0.3%, and is expected to fall marginally again this
year. Remaining areas of excess staff are expected to be identified through implementation of the
functional reviews mentioned above for redeployment or possibly redundancy. In some areas, there are
clear needs for additional hiring. One is in policy formulation. With the more active policy role being taken
on by state governments (compared to their earlier role of purely implementing policies set by Gol), GoK
recognizes the need to develop the capacity for strategy and policy formulation within departments.
62. Rationalization of government agencies. GoK is concerned with the proliferation of quasi-
govermmental agencies, such as new public enterprises, and govemment-financed societies, and the
associated risks of lack of accountability, duplication of functions of the core civil service, and waste
associated with patronage. GoK is therefore proposing a freeze on the creation of such new agencies, with
only rare exceptions.
63. Speeding up internal transactions. To improve efficiency, the Government is reducing the layers
through which a file passes for approval. The "single-file system" has been introduced in the Secretariat:
this allows for field Heads of Departments to send a file directly for action by the relevant Secretary.
Further, the "desk officer system", which eliminates section officers and their assistants from the chain of
file movement, is now being piloted. These innovations are important changes to speed up decision
making and reduce clerical requirements, which GoK intends to expand in the coming year. GoK intends to
introduce a Secretariat-wide Local Area Network (LAN), which should become operational in 2002/03,
which will further help speeding up the flow of internal transactions.



19
64. Human Resource Database. GoK has commenced work on the development of a computerized
human resource database and expects to complete this project in 2002/03. This will provide better
monitoring, control, and forecasting capability in relation to key variables such as salaries, pensions, and
transfers.
Service Delivery
65. Agency reforms. Improving the delivery of services to the public both delivers large welfare gains
and builds support for the reform program. Last fiscal year, GoK released citizens' charters for key utilities
- electricity and buses (in Bangalore). It also started the more difficult process of improving departmental
service delivery, beginning first with pilots in Bangalore. Since then, in the course of the 2001/02 fiscal
year, GoK has made significant process in its citizens' charter initiatives:
*  All the transport offices in Bangalore have now been computerized, cutting delivery times for most
services to the same or next day, facilitating tax collection, and reducing the scope for corruption
by generating greater transparency. A statewide citizens' charter has been released and offices in
five additional cities are slated for computerization in 2002/03. The transport charter, including
fees, delivery times, and documents needed for all services, is prominently displayed. Help-desks
provide information, free forms, and access to complaint registers.
*  The state bus company, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), has recently
released a citizens' charter. It has introduced a single window for certain categories of chartered
services, significantly expanded its advance reservation network, upgraded the quality of its buses
for certain routes, and placed critical information on its website. Bus cancellations have also fallen
from 12% to 2% in the last year.
*  The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has also achieved a remarkable turnaround in
service quality by simplifying procedures, computerizing the land allotment process, and
improving grievance redressal. As a result, the time needed for the average citizen to secure land
from the agency has been cut from five years to one.
*  The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board has striven to balance a recent hike in tariffs
with commensurate improvements in service delivery. The Board has introduced an on-line billing
system, developed a website to disseminate information and receive feedback from customers, and
toned up its grievance redressal procedures by holding public hearings regularly. A charter has
been finalized in consultation with NGOs and is expected to be released shortly.
*  The service delivery initiative is at an earlier stage in other services. Building on the
computerization of land records, a citizens' charter for rural block offices is being prepared: such
offices provide important services to rural inhabitants, including the provision of land titles, and the
issuance of food ration cards. After initial delays, progress is now being seen in the re-engineering
of the Stamps and Registration Department, which, in addition to being a large revenue-eamer for
the government, is responsible for official document registration. Computerization has started,
including putting important forms in the Department's website, a handbook/booklet has been
prepared to clarify questions, and draft charter has been prepared. The Health Department has
produced a model charter for the state's hospitals. The Govemment was also expected to issue a
charter for the Bangalore police force but has instead decided to release one for the state police as a
whole in early 2002/03.
*  Grievance redressal procedures have been strengthened. For example, in the Transport Department,
public meetings to hear and address grievances are held every three months, and the department
promise to respond to any grievance filed within 48 hours.
*  NGOs have been involved in charter preparation, implementation, and feedback.



20
66.  As other Indian states, and other countries, have found out, issuing a citizens' charter is only one step
in improving service delivery, and is itself no guarantee of success. Additional requirements to make the
charters "bite" are re-engineering, publicity, and feedback. Publicity for the Karnataka charters has
improved, but more is needed. Formal client feedback is being sought through surveys, and the first survey
is now available for the Transport Department. The survey compared service in a re-engineered,
computerized office with that in a non-computerized office. One interesting finding was that 41% of
driving-license applicants reported paying a bribe in the non-computerized setting, but only 3% in the
computerized setting. In 2002/03, GoK plans to conduct a comparative survey across agencies to compare
success in making the charters a "live" instrument for improving service delivery.
Freedom of Information
67.  Improving the access of the public to governmental information is increasingly recognized in India as
critical to reduce corruption and improve service delivery. In 2000/01, GoK enacted a Right to Information
Act. While the Act is a progressive one, there has been a delay in making it effective. After enactment,
GoK established a Committee to consult with NGOs and other stakeholders in order to draft the rules for
the Act to make it effective. Draft rules were issued in October 2001, but are still being debated and have
not yet been finalized and notified. GoK intends to take this final step towards making the Act effective in
the first half of 2002. The next challenge for GoK lies in implementation. Priorities for GoK for 2002/03 in
this regard will be: improved indexing, cataloging, and storage systems for records, including increased use
of IT in this regard beginning with selected departments; the appointment and training of information
officers; the dissemination of the Act and its rules to the public; and the monitoring of requests to gain
feedback on public preferences for information. The Act also has provisions for suo-moto or routine
disclosure, including obligations to publish information about the structure and functioning of public
agencies, about the reasons for important government decisions, and about the likely affects of new projects
prior to their initiation. GoK intends to develop a database of government Acts, rules, and orders and post
them on the web in order to facilitate greater transparency.
E-governance
68.  GoK has launched a number of initiatives in the area of electronic governance for public transparency
and for better functioning of departments. Progress in 2001/02 has been most striking in respect of the
government's land records computerization. The most advanced in the country, the Bhoomi initiative has so
far computerized some 12 million land records, and completely re-engineered the process by which these
are made available to farmers, eliminating harassment, and reducing delivery time from months to minutes.
The project is expected to be completed in 2002. Other e-governance initiatives also underway include:
treasury computerization; transport service computerization; and computerization of land-allotment at the
Bangalore Development Authority; human resource database; and the Secretariat-Wide Local Area
Network. GoK is also preparing an E-Governance Strategy and Action Plan. This is expected to be
complete by April 2002 and will provide the basis for accelerating e-governance.
Anti-corruption strategy
69.  The enforcement dimension of Karnataka's anti-corruption effort is spearheaded by the Lok Ayukta
Office which is one of the best-resourced institutions of its kind in India in terms of staff size and budgetary
allocations. Since September 2001, with the appointment of a new Lok Ayukta Chief, the office of the Lok
Auykta has become far more active and visible than in the past. The Government's sub-committee on
governance has reviewed the working of the Lok Ayukta and recommended several changes to enhance the
effectiveness of the institution. The Lok Ayukta also plans to strengthen its internal workings through steps
such as weeding out corrupt officers, achieving more computerization, strengthening its investigative
capacity, and better dissemination.



21
70.  The focus on enforcement is being complemented by a significant emphasis on systematic reform to
prevent corruption, the importance of which has gained growing recognition. For example, a high-level
public-private task force on health in Karnataka concluded in its report that corruption was the number one
barrier to effective public health service delivery. A number of measures being taken by GoK, including
reductions in patronage-based transfers, strengthened financial management and accountability, more
transparent public procurement, and business deregulation, will address key underlying sources of
corruption. To monitor the implementation of these anti-corruption measures as well as to identify and
implement further measures, GoK created in November 2001 a high-powered Anti-Corruption Committee.
The new Committee is chaired by the Chief Minister and its membership consists of senior ministers,
bureaucrats, and representatives from civil society. Its first meeting was held on January 18, 2002. The
Committee will oversee surveys of households, enterprises, and public officials on corruption, report on the
progress of the government's anti-corruption program, and act as a focal-point for corruption-prevention
efforts in the state.
Decentralization
71. India has separate local governments for rural and urban areas. Rules for transfer of resources to both
local governments are set every five years by the State Finance Commission Report, Karnataka's second of
which is now under preparation. GoK has an active decentralization agenda with respect to both urban and
rural local governments.
72.  Urban local governments are stronger than rural, but are nevertheless often ineffective and starved
of revenue. Their most important source of revenue is the property tax, strengthening of which is the most
significant tax reform for urban local governments. Bangalore introduced self-assessment for property taxes
last fiscal year. As a result, property tax revenues rose by some 30%. This fiscal year, GoK has amended
the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act (1976), and the Karnataka Municipalities Act (1964), to allow
the introduction of self-assessment across the state. The second-tier major cities (Mysore, Hubli-Dharwad,
Mangalore, Belgaum, and Gulbarga) are targeted for the introduction of self-assessment in 2002/03. The
amendments to the Municipal Corporations Act also include introduction of an infrastructure and solid
waste management surcharge on vehicles and properties to enhance the revenue-earning capacity of
municipalities. GoK has also signed a performance-based MoU with the Bangalore City Corporation,
which will make additional funding available if certain reform and performance criteria are met.
73.  GoK has a long tradition of rural decentralization dating back to the 1870s. In 1987, GoK
implemented an ambitious rural decentralization program. A large number of staff- including all teachers
- and the largest share of public expenditures of any state have been transferred to rural local governments,
known as Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs). Still, there are concerns that the state-level bureaucracy and
political establishment exercise a disproportionate role in panchayat governance, that the PRIs still have a
very limited amount of untied funds, and that the quality of local governance is low. A study of rural
decentralization in Karnataka was undertaken by the Bank, and a workshop on this subject was held in
April 2001 for discussing the findings with GoK. GoK has since established a high-level committee which
has drafted a report which proposes changes to the Panchayati Raj Act to quicken the pace of
administrative decentralization. The Bank has initiated a study on fiscal decentralization to provide a better
analytical base for reforms in this area.
C. Private Sector Development
Business Deregulation
74. Business surveys and other field work have identified complex regulation and bureaucratic
interference with respect to setting up and running a business as the number one constraint to private



22
investments and growth in Karnataka, particularly damaging to SME and rural employment growth.5 After
extensive political and private-sector consultations, GoK approved in May 2001 a far-reaching policy paper
to streamline government regulations of business activities. The challenge for 2001/02 has been to realize
the policy proposals contained in the deregulation paper, through extensive consultations and coordination
across various departments and with the private sector. The reforms can be divided into two types. First, the
Government plans to make it easier for a business to set up in Karnataka:
*  A single, new Common Application Form (to replace 16 existing forms) has been prepared, and the
rules to bring it into effect have mostly been finalized.
*  GoK had developed separate single-window agencies for different types of industries (e.g.,
tourism, IT), but these have now been amalgamated.
*  The building-plan approval process is also being streamlined by introducing a common building
code and reducing the number of approvals required from three to just one.
* GoK has completed procedures for introducing the Karnataka Industries Facilitation Bill (KIFB),
the first of its type in India, in the State Legislature in the March/April budget session to give
legislative backing to single-window and fast-track clearances to non-polluting industries through
reliance on deemed approvals and self-certification.
*  GoK is rationalizing the environmental classification of industries and restructuring the State
Environment Clearance Committee (ECC) to reduce duplication with the Pollution Control Board
and improve effectiveness.
75. Second, GoK also seeks to reduce the regulatory burden currently associated with running a business
in Kamataka:
* The number of registers and returns currently required to be maintained and submitted by
industries have been reduced from 24 to 4.
*  GoK has contracted the Indian Statistical Institute to lead the design of a new inspection method
based on computer-generated random sampling and transparent procedures (backed by the KIFB)
to replace the current ad hoc/discretionary inspection regime and will thus minimize opportunities
for corruption and ensure better compliance with environmental, labor, and other safeguards. The
new legislation (para. 74) will provide statuary backing to the new inspection regime.
76. GoK has contracted the Public Affairs Center (an NGO) to carry out a baseline and subsequent
annual surveys of businesses. This is currently underway. Subsequent surveys will assess the impact of the
reforms and provide feedback. The longer-term agenda for business deregulation relates to: implementation
of the deregulation initiatives described above; streamlining of land use regulations (e.g., relating to the
acquisition of agricultural land for industrial use in industrial zones); reforms of industrial township
management to improve service delivery to industries; and rationalization of the role of the Department of
Commerce and Industry, and its agencies and enterprises, many of which have overlapping and in some
cases redundant roles. Labor market reforms are also needed, but these depend much more on the role of
the Government of India, and scope for progress here is to be determined.
Privatization of Public Enterprises
77.  In 2000/01, GoK's public enterprise (PE) reforms focused on the development of a policy framework
for privatizing/restructuring 78 public enterprises in manufacturing, service and marketing, and public
5   Business Survey by Public Affairs Center, 1999; World Bank policy note on business enviromnent, 2000.
Although Kamataka has been ranked as one of Indian states with better investment enviromnent, significant
challenges remain.



23
utilities, as well as the establishment of institutional mechanisms to implement these reform. In 2001/02,
focus has shifted to implementation. 17 PEs (mainly manufacturing companies) comprise the Phase I of the
privatization program and are being actively worked on for closure or sale. 4 PEs have been closed down:
operations have been ceased, severance payments (VRS) have been offered to all the employees, and
statutory dues have been settled. GoK has ordered the closure of one of the state's two biggest
manufacturing PEs; the other is being offered for sale. Asset valuation is underway in PEs which have
ceased operations. A list of second Phase PEs has been drawn up for inclusion in the restructuring program.
A Social Safety Net Advisor has been appointed, and training and counseling programs are being offered.
To ensure environmental due diligence in the privatization, GoK has appointed the Indian Institute of
Science to undertake an environmental screening of the PEs in Phase 1 and recommend cases where
detailed environmental audit is required. All the screening reports have been completed.
78.  Overall, the public enterprise reform program has taken longer to implement than envisaged a year
ago. It transpires that many of the companies, because of their dire financial condition, face legal issues
which need to be addressed prior to closure or sale, as well as protests from affected employees. Further
progress is expected in 2002/03 as legal and procedural issues get resolved, and the program gains
momentum.
D. Poverty Monitoring and Statistical Strengthening
79.  This component of the Restructuring Program covers initiatives to improve policies and programs
through better use of data, especially with respect to the impact of policies on the poor. It includes three
sub-components: (i) the Karnataka Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System; (ii) the
independent program evaluation initiative; and (iii) improvement of state output estimation.
Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System
80. Kamataka was one of the first states in India to publish a Human Development Report (HDR) in
1999, the findings of which played an important role in prioritizing government policies and allocations
towards poorer and more deprived districts of the state. To institutionalize that one-off effort, in 2000/01
GoK created a Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System (PHDMS) under the management of
the Department of Planning, and under the guidance of an Advisory Group with outside experts. Terms of
reference for the PHDMS and key indicators - with disaggregation by gender and other socially-relevant
variables - to be monitored were published in early 2001. The objectives of the PHDMS are to help the
Government make more informed policy decisions, better determine the impact of its policies, reforms, and
services on the poor, as well as to inform public debate from the perspective of poverty reduction. Progress
in 2001/02 towards these objectives includes the following activities:
*  Preliminary analysis of survey data from the 1999/00 NSSO Consumer Expenditure Survey
covering 10,000 households in the state has been completed, and Karnataka is now the first state in
India to have available up-to-date divisional/district poverty estimates. These regional poverty
patterns are being compared with allocations for the Targeted Public Distribution System as well as
other key anti-poverty programs implemented by Gol and GoK with a view to improve regional
program allocations.
*  Collection and processing of data on wages, rural retail prices, and the main agricultural
commodities have been streamlined, and the first quarterly Economic and Statistics bulletin
highlighting the key changes in these series will be available shortly.
*  Work has begun on a new poverty and human development monitoring chapter in GoK's annual
Economic Survey which will be published in March 2002.
* A special study of key government services - rural drinking water supply and primary education in
particular - is being carried out in Gulbarga, one of the poorest districts in the northern part of the



24
state. Fieldwork for the study, which includes a survey of users, facilities, and public officials, has
been completed. The survey will provide a diagnostic and baseline for improvements in rural
service delivery.
81. In 2002/03, GoK plans to prepare its second Human Development Report, which will incorporate the
findings of the 2001 Population Census as well as other household surveys recently conducted in the state.
Program Evaluation
82. Kamataka has a strong system of program monitoring, including an internal random audit function,
and a well-defined system via which problems identified through program monitoring are escalated as
required, culminating in monthly review meetings chaired by the Chief Secretary. However, the evaluation
function is not as well developed, little use is made of extemal agencies, and even the monitoring function,
while relatively strong, is used to solve particular problems, not to identify generic lessons through which
programs can be improved. To correct these weaknesses, GoK is now giving increasing emphasis to
independent program evaluation. In 2000/01, it issued a Govemment Order to establish the "Independent
Evaluation Initiative," which earmarked 1% of plan outlays on major schemes in the annual plan budget for
evaluation studies, defined broadly to include process evaluations (e.g., procurement audits) as well as
impact evaluations This year, the focus has tumed to implementation of that order. Most of the 10
departments selected to begin the process have constituted Departmental Evaluation Committees (DECs).
More detailed guidelines have been issued to assist the departments, and training provided to the selected
departments. Seven evaluations (including two done by the Department of Planning) had been completed
by December 2001. An additional four evaluations are expected to commence shortly, as concept papers for
these have already been prepared and discussed in the DECs.
83.  One problem that has been identified in Kamataka, and which is common around the world, is that
evaluations may be completed, but not acted on. To address this problem, GoK organized a workshop in
December 2001 in which five recently completed extemal evaluations (a mix of process and impact
evaluations) were discussed. The consultants presented their findings, while Departments responded with
action taken reports. In the coming year, GoK will need to systematize this feedback loop, including
through meetings of the state-level Evaluation Coordination Committee, and a requirement that any new
scheme proposals indicate how they incorporate the lessons of evaluation. An evaluation database will be
created, and the number of evaluations, as well as action-taken reports on evaluations, is expected to grow.
The increased stress on program evaluations also links into the public expenditure management reforms
described earlier. Under the departmental medium-term fiscal plans, departments are required to state their
evaluation strategies and performance targets, and to report their past performance against targets.
State Output Estimation
84.  There has been increasing concem over the last few years in Karnataka regarding the accuracy and
timeliness of state output and inflation estimates. In particular, with fiscal targets being expressed as a
percentage of GSDP, it is important that the accuracy and timeliness of output data be improved. Most
estimates are still produced manually; there are large delays in getting any estimates at all; and early
estimates are subject to major and systematic revision over a number of years. 2001/02 has seen the launch
of a program to remedy the situation. A Bank report on the topic was prepared with detailed diagnostics
and recommendations, while an existing govemment committee on state output estimation was reactivated,
and produced a report with recommendations. Both reports were discussed at a workshop in October 2001,
in which general agreement was reached on next steps to improve output and inflation estimation. The
immediate follow-up steps now being pursued are: (i) the production of monthly industrial production
series; (ii) the computerization of the process of production of 2001/02 estimates in 2002/03; (iii) expansion
of the annual Economic Survey to include GSDP figures and analysis; and (iv) inclusion in the next MTFP
of a section on recent economic developments and prospects.



25
85.  Statistical Strengthening of DES. All of the above initiatives involve, to a larger or lesser extent,
Kamataka' s Department of Economics and Statistics (DES). Steps have been taken to improve DES
capabilities, including the following: attempts to increase awareness amongst various GoK line departments
about DES data and activities; a publicity campaign by DES using televised media to improve coverage of
the Civil Registration System which provides data on births and deaths; the contracting-out of data
processing of the 55t NSS round, which successfully reduced the lag between data collection and analysis;
and initial computerization. Much more remains to be done, and GoK has requested technical support from
the Bank through the Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT
86. This section presents: (i) Karnataka's financing needs; (ii) activating triggers for the second KERL;
(iii) benchmarks for future KERLs; (iv) implementation arrangements, performance monitoring and
outcomes; and (v) loan/credit administration.
A. Karnataka's Financing Needs
87. The financing support required from the Bank for the government fiscal year 2001/02 was detailed in
the KERLI MOP as US$250 million. Bank support in the first year of the reform program was split into
two parts, with the first operation only for US$150 million equivalent, leaving a balance of US$100 million
to be financed by the KERL2. The impact of KERL funding is seen in two areas: (i) allowing higher
budgetary support to finance power sector losses: this reflects not increased losses, but rather a reduction in
expensive borrowing and accumulation of arrears by the power sector utility; and (ii) funding payments for
severance packages for redundant workers as a result of the public enterprise reform program. The values
for these two amounts in 2000/01 are Rs 23 billion and Rs 1 billion, respectively. Their total value is Rs 24
billion, compared to the Bank support, of the two KERL loans combined, of about Rs 12 billion.
B. Upfront Actions for the Second Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit (KERL2)
88. The MOP for the first KERL (KERLI) defined twelve fiscal and governance reform milestones for
KERL2 eleven of these actions have been completed. The twelfth, notification of rules for the Right to
Information Act, has not been completed, though progress has been made with the publication of draft rules
(para. 67). Given the good overall progress made by the Government in respect of its fiscal and governance
reform program, it is proposed to move forward with KERL2 on the basis of the eleven completed upfront
actions, as per Table 4 below.



26
Table 4. Upfront Actions for KERL2
Para ref.
Fiscal Policy and Public Expenditure Management
1. Progress towards agreed fiscal targets, as indicated by: (i) actuals for 200/01; (ii) monthly fiscal  28-29,
accounts data for 2001/02; and (iii) progress in implementation of revenue and expenditure reforms.  34-41
2. Further development of the MTFP, including: (i) approval of the draft MTFP to guide budget  43,82
approval; (ii) development of 4 departmental MTFPs (education, health, roads, and rural water); and
(iii) greater use of performance evaluations.
3. Draft Fiscal Responsibility Legislation.                                             42
4. Establishment of Central Procurement Cell, and approval of a preliminary action plan to  53
implement agreed recommendations of the Kamataka Procurement Assessment.
Administrative Reforms
5.   Drastic reduction in number of civil servant transfers.                            56
6.  Implementation of pilot refonns to reduce elapsed time in government administrative  63
transactions.
7.   Completion of functional reviews for major departments to rationalize the govemment  60
administration.
8.   Establishment of the Corruption Prevention Committee to monitor and publicly report on the  70
Government's anti-corruption program.
9.   Roll out of pilot agency reforms to other parts of the state.                      65
Private Sector Development
10. Implementation of reform measures in the Karnataka Policy Paper on Deregulation of the  74-75
Business Environment.
11. Closure or sale of 3 Public Enterprises.                                            77
Note: KERL2 upfront actions as per KERLI MOP, except for: (i) the Right to Information Act is yet to be made effective; (ii)
the second trigger (on the MTFP) has been broadened to include the preparation of the draft 2002/03 MTFP to guide budget
preparation; and (iii) the fourth trigger has been modified to take account of completion of the Karnataka Procurement
Assessment, and the agreement reached on a more comprehensive procurement reform program.
C. Benchmarks for Future KERLs
89. Given the track record now being established by GoK, we would revert in subsequent fiscal years to
annual adjustment operations, subject to continued good reform progress. Reforms intended to be supported
under later KERLs are indicated in the Government's policy matrix (Annex B). The next operation,
KERL3, would be targeted for the second half of the GoK 2002/03 fiscal year (e.g., around December
2002), subject as always to good reform progress. As in the case of KERL1 and the proposed KERL2, this
will require progress in the next phase of the power sector reforms (see para. 16) as well as in fiscal and
governance reforms. In its Letter of Development Policy (Annex A), GoK has summarized its 2002/03
fiscal and governance reform program by use of 16 milestones, which will also be used by the Bank as
indicative triggers for KERL3. These are provided below.
Fiscal Policy and Public Expenditure Management
1. Further progress towards fiscal adjustment including: (i) confirmation from 2001/02 actuals of
fiscal adjustment in 2001/02; (ii) significant reduction in the consolidated deficit as per the 2002/03
budget and Medium-Term Fiscal Plan targets, including a reduction in the nominal consolidated
deficit, while protecting high-priority expenditure areas; and (iii) monthly performance in line with
these targets.
2. Strengthening of the fiscal framework: (i) publication and dissemination of the 2002/03
Medium-Term Fiscal Framework; (ii) tabling of the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Bill in the
State Legislature; and (iii) continued adherence to the Kamataka Ceiling on Govemment
Guarantees Act.
3. Tax reforms, including progress towards introduction of VAT/rationalization of sales tax regime.



27
4. Improved public expenditure management, including through: (i) publication of departmental
medium-term fiscal plans; and (ii) budget simplification.
5. Continuation of financial accountability reforms, including: (i) completion of treasury
computerization; (ii) general ban on end-year-use of Personal Deposit Accounts involving GoK
funds; and (iii) reduction in the backlog of accounts and audits.
6. Implementation of procurement reforms, including: (i) continued implementation of
Transparency in Public Procurement Act; and (ii) initial implementation of procurement reform
action plan.
Administrative Reforms
7. Publication and dissemination of the 2002/03 Governance Strategy and Action Plan.
8. Implementation of institutional measures to reduce transfers, resulting in a sustained low volume
of civil service transfers in 2002/03.
9. Actions towards rationalization of government activities, based on completed functional reviews,
in pilot departments.
10. Reforms to speed up decision making, through reduction in numbers of levels through which
files are processed, including in the offices of the Heads of Departments.
11. Agency reforms: (i) roll-out of pilot agency reforms to other agencies; and (ii) deepening of
existing agency reforms leading to improved service.
12. E-governance: (i) completion of e-governance strategy paper; and (ii) successful completion of
land records computerization.
13. Freedom of Information: effective implementation of the Act and its Rules.
Private Sector Development
14. Continued sale and closure of public sector units to reach total of 8 since launch.
15. Continued implementation of the Policy Paper on Deregulation of Business Environment,
including introduction of new inspection regime and approvals process.
Poverty Monitoring and Statistical Strengthening
16. (i) Inclusion of a new poverty monitoring chapter in the 2002 Karnataka Economic Survey; (ii)
completion and publication of additional independent evaluations and action-taken reports; and (iii)
improvements in state output estimation.
D. Implementation Arrangements, Performance Monitoring and Outcomes
90. Implementation arrangements for the Karnataka Economic Restructuring Program were detailed in
the Letter of Development Policy prepared for KERL 1. The overall program is coordinated by the Chief
Secretary, with secretariat support provided by the Project Monitoring Unit. The nodal agency for the fiscal
and public expenditure management reforms is the Finance Department. Administrative reforms are the
responsibility of the Departments of Personnel and Administrative Reform - a number of other departments
are also important in this regard and overall coordination for this component will be provided by the
Additional Chief Secretary. Under the private sector development component, business deregulation is the
responsibility of the Department of Commerce and Industry, while the Karnataka State Bureau of Public
Enterprises is the nodal agency for public enterprise reforms. Finally, the Planning Department is
responsible for the poverty monitoring and statistical strengthening component.



28
91. Performance monitoring. Performance indicators for the Government's reform program are
included in the Govemment's Policy Matrix in Annex B. Strengthening of monitoring and public reporting
is a theme of the Govemment's reform program. The Govemment's two basic reform policies, the
Medium-Term Fiscal Plan and the Govemance Strategy and Action Plan, first published in 2001, will be
updated annually, and will include the reporting of results against stated intentions. In addition, the
following measures in the Government's reform program are strengthening performance monitoring and
reporting:
*  The new Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System will make more data on poverty
and impact of Govemment policies and reforms on the poor available to the public and decision-
makers. Initial areas where progress has been made are: movements in rural wages and prices, the
delivery of education and water supply services in rural areas, and an annual report against the
agreed list of poverty indicators (para. 80).
*  Financial/fiscal reporting: various measures, from the regular provision of a wider range of fiscal
information to the public to the posting of monthly financial accounts on the Intemet to the
introduction by Finance of internal monthly monitoring of revenue, and borrowing (on-budget and
off-budget), have greatly improved fiscal monitoring.
*  Performance evaluations have been taken up for various government schemes and projects as part
of the Govemment's "independent evaluation initiative" (para. 82).
*  Monitoring of premature transfers of civil servants on the Intemet has been introduced (para. 57).
This improved data base has already shown its value, and has helped guide the reform program for
2002/03 to deliver further reductions in transfers.
* The first survey conducted as part of the Government's service-delivery improvement initiative has
been completed - in the transport department (para. 66).
*  Greater emphasis is being given to survey-based monitoring. In 2001/02, a pilot survey of
households and officials has been completed to assess service delivery in rural areas (para. 80), and
a baseline survey of businesses is underway as part of the business deregulation initiative (para.76).
(Both surveys are being conducted by extemal agencies, with NGO involvement.) A state-wide
survey of civil servants has been drafted to assess progress with respect to govemance reforms, and
is expected to be carried out in 2002/03.
E. Loan/Credit Administration
92. Funds flow arrangements for the Loan/Credit are as follows. Upon effectiveness, GoK through Gol
will submit to the Bank a withdrawal application. The US Dollar proceeds of the Loan/Credit will be
transferred from the Bank to GoF's account held at the Reserve Bank of India, into which all Bank
disbursements are deposited. The account is controlled by the Office of CAAA (Controller of Aid,
Accounts and Audit) of the Department of Economic Affairs, GoI, and is part of Gol's general foreign
exchange reserves. The Rupee equivalent funds will be promptly transferred by Gol to the Consolidated
Fund of the GoK in one tranche on standard terms for central resource transfers for state developmental
budgets (30% as grant and 70% as loan, with Gol bearing the foreign exchange risk). GoK will promptly
confirm to the Bank the receipt of these funds, and its credit to the Consolidated Fund of the GoK.
93. Procurement. Disbursement of the loan/credit proceeds will not be linked to specific purchases.
However, GoI will not use the loan/credit proceeds to pay for certain expenditures included in the Bank's
standard negative list which includes expenditures on military hardware, luxury goods as defined in the
Standard Intemational Trade Classification, and environmentally hazardous goods.
94. Financial accountability environment. Prior to KERL 1, the Bank supplemented the 1998 public
expenditure review of Kamataka with a preliminary public financial accountability assessment for the



29
state. The results show that, although there are weaknesses, the foundations of Kamataka's public financial
accountability system are reasonable (para. 46). Key actions for improvement and strengthening are
included in the policy matrix (Annex B), and are being implemented (paras. 47-52). The Bank has
completed a State Procurement Assessment; and a State Financial Accountability and Management Study
has been initiated in collaboration with the Government, which will assist to further develop a medium-
term improvement program (see paras. 47, 53). The funds flow arrangements for the Loan/Credit described
in para. 92 above are satisfactory to ensure that the proceeds of the Loan/Credit are used for the intended
purposes.
V. LESSONS LEARNT, BENEFITS, AND RISKS
A. Lessons Learnt
95.  Experience to date has confirmed the usefulness of the programmatic approach to adjustment lending
to support fiscal and governance reforms at the state level in India. A similar operation has been undertaken
in Uttar Pradesh (approved by the Board in April 2000), and another one is being prepared this year for
Andhra Pradesh. Lessons from these operations, and from the Bank's other fiscal work, at the state level
include: (i) the need for a well-identified strategic design; (ii) the importance of integration of the fiscal
impact of the power sector within the fiscal framework; and (iii) the need for institutionalizing the fiscal
framework. Lessons from the first KERL include: (i) the importance of frequent monitoring and
quantitative targets, both financial and non-financial (e.g., number of transfers, volume of power supply);
(ii) the need for better state output estimation and forecasting to make fiscal targets as a percentage of
output more reliable (see para. 84); and (iii) the importance of communications, with both internal and
external stakeholders (para. 22).
B. Benefits
96. Support for reforms. Moving forward with KERL2 within the current GoK fiscal year - as
envisaged in the KERL 1 MOP given good reform progress - is an appropriate response to the progress
made by GoK across the reform spectrum. These reforms have consolidated gains achieved under KERL1,
thereby reducing the risk of reversing the reform course. Karnataka continues to implement many difficult
reforms, and thereby helps to generate competition and reform momentum across Indian states.
97. Impact on poverty. Karnataka has a good track record of commitment to reduce poverty and
improve human development. This is reflected in substantial reduction in both rural and urban poverty as
well as significant improvements in basic social indicators relating to education and health (see Table 1).
Nevertheless, there is still a major unfinished agenda.
98.  Looking to the future, with GSDP per capita of about US$410, broad-based and sustained economic
growth remains key to poverty reduction in Karnataka. The Letter of Development Policy details the
expected positive impact of Karnataka's fiscal and governance reforms on poverty reduction through
fostering an enabling environment for broad-based growth. Specifically:
* Karnataka's deregulation will improve the investment climate, especially for small and medium
enterprises (SMEs), with over-regulation hurting SMEs disproportionately. Business deregulation
will help generate non-farm employment, of great benefit to the poor, but where performance has
been lagging in Kamataka.
* Karnataka's governance reforms seek to improve the delivery of public services at local levels (e.g.,
through citizen charters, user surveys, and performance monitoring). The governance reforms
should also reduce corruption and harassment, which tend to hurt the poor disproportionately.



30
Already service delivery improvements are reducing harassment and corruption, including in rural
areas, e.g., through the computerization of millions of farmers' land records.
*  Kamataka' s fiscal reforms will enable a greater share of resources to be focused on poverty-related
expenditures (para. 40). The MTFP seeks to reorient public spending towards high priority
development spending (primary and secondary education, primary health care, drinking water, basic
infrastructure) that will provide basic social services to the poor and help agricultural growth.
Budgetary outcomes confirm that high-priority expenditures were protected in 2000/01 despite
fiscal adjustment, and cuts in high-priority expenditures are expected to be avoided in 2001/02
despite the very difficult resource position.
* The emphasis being given to improving poverty monitoring and evaluation will help the
govemment to better track poverty, and to adjust its policies and programs accordingly. This
includes the Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System, as well as the independent
evaluation initiative (paras. 80-83).
* Negative impacts on displaced workers through the public enterprise reforms are being mitigated by
severance packages. GoK has also developed a training and counseling program for displaced
workers.
99.  Kamataka's broader reform program is also pro-poor. Special attention is being paid to sectoral
reforms in areas of great importance to the rural poor, in particular education and rural water supply. With
regard to power sector reforms, World Bank field-level research indicates that power reforms in India will
benefit farmers, especially marginal and small farmers, since the quality gains from reform will more than
offset the cost of increased tariffs. This study was undertaken in another Indian state, but is now being
initiated in Kamataka: it would study electricity consumption by farmers, cropping pattems, income levels
and agriculture inputs and outputs over a full year. A survey-based social assessment of the power sector is
also at an advanced stage. Increasing user charges is a progressive, though controversial, policy since the
poor do not consume electricity: they neither use it in their houses nor can afford pump-sets on their farms.
(About 50% of Kamataka's rural households make no use of electricity. There is also a life-line tariff,
which about 20% of Kamataka's consumers benefit from.)
100. Support for disadvantaged groups. While the reform program may benefit different groups to
different extent, special efforts are being made to extend support to disadvantaged groups. With support
from the Bank, GoK is this year planning to launch three new community-based pro-poor rural investment
programs to assist the state's farmers and rural residents: rural water supply, rural watershed development,
and rural community tanks management. In addition, Kamataka is one of the most successful states in
implementing the Bank-supported women's empowerment project, which has so far resulted in the
establishment of 75,000 women's self-help groups, covering 1.5 million families. GoK has also recently
designated women to be the sole beneficiary of various govemment programs, such as for housing and land
distribution. The Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System will track progress with respect to
poverty and social indicators in a disaggregated manner wherever feasible (e.g., disaggregated by gender,
backward regions, rural/urban, and caste).
101. Environmental impact. No major impact is expected from the state's fiscal and governance reform
program. Environmental considerations of the private sector development component, including public
enterprise reform and business deregulation have been appropriately incorporated (paras. 74, 77). A larger
program of assistance has been launched to help Karnataka strengthen its environmental protection strategy
(para. 22). As a part of the state's power sector reforms, a power sector environmental assessment report
has been drafted.
6   Two of these projects have been approved by the Bank. The third (community tanks) is under preparation.



31
C. Risks
102. Key risks are: difficulties in adhering to GoK's fiscal framework, resistance from vested interests to
institutional and governance reforms, and risks associated with the sectoral reforms, particularly in the
power sector where reforms are politically controversial. However, to date, the built-in mitigating measures
have enabled the fiscal adjustment and reform program stay on course. These include: a comprehensive,
consolidated approach to fiscal adjustment, covering off-budget as well as on-budget reforms; close
monitoring; institutionalization of the fiscal framework; and broad ownership of the reform program among
senior political leaders and sections of civil society. The dynamic leadership displayed by senior political
leaders and state bureaucrats has also been a decisive factor. Increased emphasis on intemal and extemal
communications has helped protect and develop the consensus for reform.
103. Despite the success to date, the risks will continue and may even increase. Six risks are particularly
apparent at present:
*  The economic slowdown undermines the primacy being given to fiscal adjustment, and makes the
task of fiscal adjustment more difficult, especially when revenues, both own-revenue and revenue
devolved from GoI, fall short of target. However, Kamataka's performance to date in adjusting
expenditure to meet the revenue shortfall provides some assurance for the future.
*  Power sector reforms carry high political economy risks, and have definitely proven controversial
to date. Further tariff adjustments will impinge on both the agricultural and residential sectors.
Protests (e.g., opposition to tariff adjustment and supply restrictions to agriculture) may lead to a
slowdown in power sector reforms, including the pace of privatization, with adverse fiscal
consequences (para. 32). Further, while independent regulation is a necessary feature of power
sector reforms, it also introduces regulatory risks, and puts the timing and size of tariff increases
beyond the govemment's control (para. 32). Privatization efforts could also get affected by the
prolonged continuation of the prevailing market conditions with investors wary of investing in
emerging markets.
*  The current Govemment is coming towards the mid-point of its 5-year tenure: the nearer elections
loom, the harder it will be to introduce controversial reforms.
*  The interest groups who currently benefit from corruption, and the employees whose positions are
threatened by the civil service rationalization, will continue to oppose reforms which threaten them.
As the reforms move increasingly into the implementation phase, the opposition can also be
expected to be intensified.
*  Although Karnataka has a competent bureaucratic apparatus, as the reforms shift into
implementation phase, the govemment's reform-implementation capacity is being stretched.
*  The introduction of VAT scheduled for April, 2003 (para. 35) is a particularly complex task
requiring massive coordination across Indian states and between the center and the states. Its
introduction will require continued consensus across the states, and Kamataka's decision to
introduce the VAT will be influenced by the decision of its neighboring states. There is also a risk
that a common VAT rate applied to all states will lead to a fall in revenue in Kamataka, which is a
relatively highly-taxed state. Offsetting these risks are the facts that: Kamataka's VAT preparations
are relatively advanced; the state is closely involved in the inter-state dialogue on VAT
introduction; and the announcement of a year's delay in the introduction of VAT (previously
targeted for April 2002) will allow more time for adequate preparation and coordination. Further
delay in VAT introduction cannot be ruled out, but Kamataka should still be able in 2002/03 to
introduce significant tax reforms and rationalization as part of its preparation for VAT.
104. Offsetting these risks is the fact that the reforms are now starting to deliver benefits, resulting in
credibility and support for the Govemment. However, increased emphasis will be needed in a number of
areas to ensure that the reforms now in place are protected and extended:



32
*  The communication of reforms (intemal as well as external) has improved, but a more systematic
effort is needed, especially in the power sector. The Bank is providing assistance in this area, and
the Bank also has a dialogue with the political leadership, senior bureaucrats, and sections of civil
society in Kamataka on reform challenges and options.
*  Reforms in the industrial sector and, to a lesser extent, in agriculture, are underway. These need to
be intensified to promote growth.
*  Further institutionalization of reforms (e.g., Fiscal Responsibility Act) is needed to cement the
gains made to date.
*  The Bank, and other donors, notably the Australian aid agency, are financing technical assistance
in support of the reform program. This will need to continue to support reform implementation.
Discussions are also underway with GoK for strengthening of the Government's policy-making
capacity (para. 61).
* Continued close collaboration with Government of India, and consistency of Bank support with
GoI's Fiscal Reform Facility (FRF) will bolster the reform process. Karnataka is one of the states
which has signed up for the FRF (para.6). Monitoring of the Restructuring Program is done in
collaboration with the FRF authorities.
105. GoK has come through 2001/02 with its reform program threatened but ultimately intact and
strengthened. The challenge now is to continue with reforms into 2002/03. Kamataka's record to date and
promise for the future continue to warrant Bank support.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Zhang Shengman
Washington, D.C.
February 15, 2002



Annex A
D.O. No.14/1/99-FB-V        ffir 4irrem
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fRz W4 wf4
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
SECRETARY                                         Department of Economic Affairs
S A  f1-/NEW DELHI
19t" February, 2002
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Please find attached a Letter of Development Policy dated 8"t February, 2002
from the Chief Secretary to the State Govemment of Kamataka. The letter
delineates the broad and comprehensive reforms agenda through which the
Govemment of Kamataka proposes to strengthen and consolidate its reforms
process, and for which it has sought assistance from the World Bank of $ 100
million.
Govemment of India supports this continued initiative and commends the
proposal for the consideration of the World Bank.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(C.MyP8x<)
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn,
President,
World Bank,
Washington DC - 20433
USA



t!~ OrWAd) - %La 000
VIbHANA SOUDHA. BANGALORiE-1
D.O. NO. Ft' (9 piMU   0
CHIEF SECRETARY                                            0Cot DATED ..f?.:.*...
Dear Shri Vasudev,
Sub:-Letter of Development Policy for the World Bank-assisted Second
Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit.
* Kindly refer to our Develqpment Policy Letter bearing N6.FD 68 PMU 2001, dated 15ih
May 2001 wherein we had requested for support of the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of
the Government of India (Gol) for obtaining assistance from the World Bank on the Economic
Restructuring Programme of the Government of Karnataka (GoK). This was recommended to the
Bank by DEA. The amount requested by the state government tom the World Bank was US$150
million as the first installment, arW later within this fiscal year, based on the strength of our reform
programme, a second installment.of US$100 million. US$150 million was provided in the form of
first loan/credit which was approved by the Bank's Board on Junri 21, 2001. The amount was
received by GoK on 24'h August 2001. The second installment of US$100 million was proposed to
be provided through a second loan/credit (50% IBRD, 50% IDA),.called the Second Karnataka
Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit (KERL2) within the current fiscal year 2001/02.
2.    During the course of the flscal year so far, GoK has achieved its reform milestones. In this
letter we would like to apprisc you of the reform mcasurcs we havc taken, and requcst Gol to
forward this Letter of Development Policy to the World Bank for its approval of the Second
Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit.
Karnataka's Reform Proeramme and Sectoral Reforms    t
3.    As we stated in our first. Letter of Development Policy, Karmataka is a statc with mmny
strengths, including a good growth record (yearly average of 7.5% for the last five years) and a
better fiscal position than that of many states. But Karnataka still has a relatively low per capita
income, and faces huge challenges for eradication of poverty. Karnataka has the second highest
arid area among all states, drinking water is scarce and of low quality il many villages, and
agriculture is mostly unirrigated. Another concern is the extent of regional imbalance, with vast
areas of North Karnataka remaining economically backward due to adverse climatic conditions and
historical factors.
4.    The overall objective of the Government of Karnataka. reform programme has been
summarized by our Chief Minister as the "eradication of poverty through high econoitic growlh
temnpered with equity. " To achieve this objective,  the Govdrnment of Karnataka has launched a



wide-ranging reform programme, involving both fiscal and governance reforms (the Economic
Restructuring Programme) and sectoral reforms. Before detailing our progress in respect of fiscal
and governance reforms, this Letter briefly summarizes the status of some of our key sectoral
reforms, since these are also of critical importance.
5.    Agricultural productivity. Lifting the income of our farmers through productivity
improvements is a central challenge for the Government. The Farmers' Contact Centress (Ryot
Mitra Kendras) set up across the state to disseminate scientific and technical advice to farmers are
working well, and are being computerized to enhance effectiveness. A multi-disciplinary
Watershed Development Department is now functioning to improve agricultural productivity in
drylands. Programmes for attracting private sector investment into cold storage, agribusiness,
biotechnology, and agricultural markets are being introduced. Cultivation of sandalwood, an
important forest produce, has been deregulated.
6. Water. Karnataka is India's second most arid state, and faces major challenges in the water
sector. A number of important reforms have been introduced in the rural water supply sector (cost-
sharing, community participation, decentralization, and improved monitoring). In December 2001,
GoK released a comprehensive state water policy. The policy envisions adoption of a river basin
approach for all future water resource management in the state, the restructuring of government
functions for more effective mnanagement, revision of water tariff to meet O&M needs, and a
participatory approach to water resource management. In the urban water supply sector, the
Government has already announced its plans to invite private sector participation. In December
2001, the Government effected a substantial increase in water tariffs in Bangalore.
7.    Road sector. Maintenance of the entire state highways network has been handed over to the
private sector through a series of multi-year contracts - a first for India. With support from the
World Bank under our state highways project, internal reforms to improve the functioning and
responsiveness of the Public Works Department (PWD) under the Department's Institutional
Development Strategy have also been launched.
8.    Education. The Government has identified 7 districts in North Karnataka with the largest
number of out-of-school children and highest drop out rates, and has launched a special programme
for these backward districts to ensure universal participation in and completion of elementary
education. A separate directorate has been created for this purpose, and the Government has
decided to earmark 50% of the plan allocation for these districts. The Education Departmnent has
transferred 4,000 teachers from the south of the state, where there is an excess, to the north, where
there is a scarcity. The Government is improving quality in elementary education through reducing
teacher absenteeism, better teacher training and support, and curriculum reform and changes in the
assessment system. Block officers have been authorized to appoint temporary teachers against
leave vacancies, and limits have been put on the use of teachers for non-teaching duties to increase
teaching time. Following the launch of our education sector report in February 2002, we expect to
introduce further reforms and initiatives in this high-priority area.
9.    Health. Following from the Task Force on Health and Family Welfare, the Government has
taken various steps to improve the quality of health services. We have introduced transparency in
the recruitment and appointment of staff, filled vacant posts of doctors and paramedics, particularly
in rural areas, and allowed district and area hospitals to retain funds. We are monitoring the
2



performance of about 200 health facilities through patient/client surveys for improving
management and increasing public accountability. This fiscal year, the budget for drugs for primary
health centres was increased by 50%.
10.   Power. Power sector reforms are critical to improving the fiscal health and realizing the
growth potential of Karnataka. In 2001/02, we have made significant progress with power sector
reforms:
* Power sector restructuring andprivatization. In preparation for the privatization Qf
distribution, GoK has decided to unbundle the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation
Limited (KPTCL) into one transmission and four regional distribution companies. The
companies will be created in March 2002, and start operating independently during
2002/03. They will be given separate managements and Boards, and increasing levels of
operational autonomy.
* Tariff adjustment. KPTCL filed in November 2001 with the Karnataka Electricity
Regulatory Commission (KERC) for a 23.5% average increase in the electricity tariff (on
top of a 17% increase given by KERC in January, 2001). The tariff filing has several
important features, including: a reduction in cross subsidies; financial incentives to farmers
to use meters (most supply to agriculture is currently unmetered); and much higher tariffs
for rich farmers to improve targeting of the power subsidy. The tariff order is expected to be
issued in May/June 2002. Further, a substantial tariff increase for farmers, which was earlier
deferred for a year, became effective from January 2002.
*  Theft and loss reduction Various measures have been taken by the Government to reduce
theft and losses. In April 2001, GoK approved an implementation programme for universal
metering, which is now being implemented. All new customers are metered, and over
100,000 newly-connected farmers have been metered since 1998. Contracts for the
procurement and installation of agriculture pump-set meters have been signed, and
installation has started. Contracts for the purchase of meters for unmetered residential
customers and public lighting installations are being finalized. KPTCL has also this year
completed electronic metering of all 11kV feeders to enable it to better monitor energy
supply. The next step is to establish a system to enable collection and use of the data
generated by the electronic meters. KPTCL is also metering an increasingly large number of
distribution transformers in rural areas - this will also improve monitoring of power supply
and give a better estimate of rural consumption and losses. We recognize that reducing
electricity theft cannot be left to KPTCL alone, but rather requires the full backing of
Government. Our Legislature has amended the Electricity (Supply) Act to strengthen the
anti-power-theft provisions, which dramatically increases the penalties for theft of
electricity. Based on these new provisions, which have already been publicized, the
Government has approved a plan for a campaign to crack down on power theft, which it
will implement in the coming months. Finally, following an evaluation which revealed a
large-scale abuse of KPTCL's subsidized scheme for poor residential households, the
scheme is being revamped: beneficiaries violating scheme guidelines are being shifted to
the regular residential category; and eligibility criteria for entry into the scheme have been
tightened.
11.   Substantial further progress is expected in 2002/03 with respect to power sector reforms:
3



* Priatization. We will finalize the details of our approach to privatization, in particular, the
risk allocation between the government and the distribution companies. To increase
regulatory certainty, we are also considering moving to a multi-year tariff framework - this
would require appropriate legislative changes. We also intend to develop a plan for the
introduction of a more competitive market for generation.
* Financial recovery. This year's serious drought has postponed the financial recovery of the
power sector by a year. Our aim is to achieve operational break-even for the sector as a
whole (KPTCL and our generation company, KPCL) in the course of 2002/03, on
assumption of approval of the current tariff filing. To achieve this goal, we will retain in
place supply regulation for subsidized sectors to ensure the financial recovery of the sector,
and avoid the need for additional, unaffordable power purchases. Further, the capital
expenditure plan of the sector will be focused only on critical, high-priority expenditures.
To sustain the financial recovery, another annual tariff filing by the power utilities is to be
made in 2002.
*  Theft and loss reduction. In 2002/03, GoK will implement the new Anti-Theft
amendments, and plans to make substantial progress with its universal metering drive,
which should be facilitated by the expected introduction in the new tariff order of incentives
for farmers to be metered. To better monitor energy billing-supply discrepancies, energy
audits will be carried out on urban feeders, and better estimates obtained of agricultural
consumption.
* Subsidy targeting and delivery. KPTCL has already started to charge rich farmers higher
power tariffs than for poorer farmers, and this is expected to be expanded in the coming
fiscal year, with appropriate metering and billing arrangements in place, resulting in much
better targeting of the farm subsidy. Similarly, the current campaign to convert subsidized
residential customers to the regular consumer category in the case of abuse will be
expanded. Alternative subsidy delivery mechanisms will also be explored with the aim of
making the subsidy involved in supplying power to farmers more explicit and direct.
Options could include explicit billing of full cost and government subsidy, the involvement
of rural user-groups in bill collection, and the possible use of coupons.
Summary of the Karnataka Economic Restructunng Programme
12.   As we mentioned in our first Letter, there is a pressing need for a reorientation of the fiscal
system of the state so that the pattern of public expenditure supports targeting the pressing socio-
economic concerns. In addition, it is being increasingly felt that in order to meet the legitimate
aspirations of the citizens, to cope efFectively with the complex activities which the government
needs to undertake, to meet the challenges posed by the changes taking place in the world and to
enable Karnataka to remain in the forefront in a highly competitive environment, it is essential for
the State to evolve a strategy for governance and to implement it in a time-bound manner. For these
reasons, the Govermnent of Karnataka has developed the Kamataka Economic Restructuring
Programme, as part of its broader programme of sectoral and comprehensive reform. As stated in
our first Letter, the Programme has two main objectives:
* Rationalizing the role of the state. The first part of our strategy seeks to refocus
government activities on the most critical public goods and services, to withdraw from areas
4



where the private sector can be more effective, and to assist and enable the growthof the
private sector. A number of initiatives support this goal: the medium-term expenditure
framework is designed to reallocate public spending towards core public services; the
public enterprise restructuring programme aims to take the government out of commercial
activities; the administrative and public expenditure management reforms will identify
activities and schemes from which the state can pull out through functional reviews and
review of schemes; and the business deregulation strategy aims to ease the burden of
government regulation on business.
Enhancing the effectiveness of state institutions. The second part of Karnataka's strategy
is to enhance the effectiveness, transparency and accountability of the state in cartying out
its more focused role. This includes: strengthened public expenditure management and
improved financial management and accountability systems to enable the government to
achieve fiscal discipline, allocate resources in line with strategic priorities, and ensure their
efficient and effective use; administrative and civil service reform, aimed at reducing undue
discretion, enhancing the productivity of the civil service and controlling the wage bill;
greater transparency and public participation in government functioning through right to
information, citizens charters, service delivery surveys; public participation in government's
anti-corruption programme; more effective decentralization; and more effective monitoring
of poverty.
13.   To achieve these objectives, the Kamataka Economic Restructuring Programme has four
components:
*  Thefiscal andpublic expenditure reforms include a multi-year framework for fiscal
adjustment, as well as reforms to improve fiscal transparency, tax and expenditure policies,
public expenditure management, financial accountability, and transparency in public
procurement, with the objectives of restoring the state's financial health creating additional
fiscal space for high priority development expenditures, and promoting more efficient and
transparent management of the govermment's financial resources.
*  The administrative reforms focus on civil service reforms, freedom of information, service
agency reforms, anti-corruption initiatives, decentralization, and e-governance, with the
objectives of improving the efficiency and transparency by which government conducts its
business and delivers services.
* The private sector development component focuses on improving the business environment
through deregulation and privatization or closure of public sector undertakings.
* The poverty monitoring and statistical strengthening component supports the better use of
data in policy making, through the development of a poverty and human development
monitoring system, increased emphasis on programme evaluation, and strengthening of the
state's statistical system.
Proeress in 2001/02 in Imnlementation of the Economic Restructurinn Proeramme
A. Completion of Key Milestones in 2001/02
5



14.   The Government of Karnataka began implementation of the Economic Restructuring
Programme in 2000/01. Progress during that fiscal year is summarized in our first Letter of
Development Policy, and also in the attached policy matrix (see Attachment). In 2001/02, the
Government of Karnataka has made further significant progress in implementing its Economic
Restructuring Programme. At the start of 2001/02, 12 milestones were identified which could be
used as objective indicators of reform progress in the course of the fiscal year. This section reports
on progress against these milestones.
(i)   Progress towards agreed fiscal targets as indicated by: (a) actuals for 2000/01;
(b) monthly riscal accounts data for 2001/02; and (c) progress in
implementation of revenue and expenditure reforms.
(a)   Actuals for 2000/01 show a budgetary fiscal deficit of Rs 4,219 crore (4.0% of GSDP),
down from Rs 4,276 crore (4.4% of GSDP) in the previous fiscal year. This is an improvement by
a significant 0.4%. The revenue deficit was also sharply down from Rs 2,325 crore in 1999/00
(2.4% of GSDP) to Rs 1,862 crore in 2000/01 (1.8% of GSDP).
(b)   GoK has established a monitoring system which enables the Government to track its fiscal
position on a monthly basis. A consolidated approach is taken with targets for on-budget
borrowing, off-budget borrowing, and the power sector financing requirement. The consolidated
target for 2001/02 is Rs 7,320 crore. After 10 months, we are on track either to achieve this target,
or at most exceed it by Rs 100 crore. Under nonnal circumstances, this would have resulted in a
large reduction in the deficit as a percentage of GSDP down to 6.2% of GSDP in 2001/02
compared to 6.7% in 2000/01. However, with the economic slowdown, and a severe drought,
resulting in -8% agricultural growth, our GSDP is estimated to be growing only by 3.1% this year
(at constant prices). As a result, the consolidated deficit for 2001/02 will be 6.7% of GSDP, an
outcome which reverses the trend of increasing deficits which Karnataka and other states have
observed for the last several years, and sets the stage for further deficit reduction next year. The
Govermnent has faced several difficulties beyond its control this fiscal year. In particular, although
own tax revenue growth is about 12%, we are facing a large short-fall of revenues devolved from
Got, leading to an overall revenue shortfall estimated at Rs 1,400 crore. Nevertheless, we are
adjusting our budget expenditure accordingly, and limiting our borrowing, and plan to meet the
budget fiscal deficit target of Rs 5,130 crore. While cutting expenditure, the Government is
protecting to the extent possible identified high-priority expenditures in sectors like primary and
secondary education, basic health, and rural water supply. In the power sector, the severc summer
drought experienced in large parts of the state caused an increase in power sector losses, and the
KPTCL financing requirement is now estimated at Rs 2,660 crore, Rs 300 crore above our target of
Rs 2,360 crore. Had the Government not taken corrective measures, the increase in the power
sector financing requirement would have been much larger. Despite the revenue short-fall, we plan
to release the power sector subsidy budget allocation (Rs 2,300 crore) in full, to prevent KPTCL
from having to resort to firther borrowing. The final component of the consolidated deficit is off-
budget borrowing, which the Government is now strictly controlling. We are committed to
reducing and eliminating such borrowing over time. This year, we plan to borrow less than our
target (Rs 1,685 crore compared to the target of Rs 1,885 crore). This will enable-us to restrict our
consolidated deficit to Rs 7,430 crore or less, very close to the original target.
6



(c)   On the revenue side, reforms are continuing in most areas. Motor vehicle tax reform is
making good progress, excise enforcement is being strengthened, and the sales tax reforms
announced in the 2001/02 budget - the shift to self-assessment, and the clearance of the backlog of
past assessments - are proceeding well. The state is one of India's leaders in preparing for the
introduction of VAT. This year, we have extended self-assessment, drafted VAT legislation.and
regulations, and started a tralning and communications campaign. Reforms have also started in
stamps and registration. The Tax Reforms Commission presented its final report in October, 2001,
and implementation of its recommendations is already underway. Expenditures including salaries
and subsidies are being kept under control.
(ii)  Further development of the Medium-Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP).
The 2001/02 MTFP has been published and disseminated. With the MTFP as the basis,
GoK has entered into an MOU with Gol under the Fiscal Reforms Facility and has already drawn
the first year's entitlement of Rs.32 crore. The 2002/03 MTFP has been prepared in draft fofm.
The final 2002/03 MTFP will be published with the 2002/03 budget. In addition to updating on
assumptions and policies, the MTFP is being re-organized along departmental lines with more
explicit multi-year departmental ceilings. Karmataka is the first Indian state to do so. The entire
area of departmental budgeting is now being given much more emphasis as a precursor to holding
departments more accountable for their performance. Departmental MTFPs for the period up to
2004/05 are being developed on a pilot basis for the departments of primary and secondary
education, health and famnily welfare, medical education, public works, and rural water supply, and
these will also be published with the next annual budget. GoK is giving more emphasis to
evaluation of programmes, and its 'independent evaluation initiative" is now taking off.
(iii) Draft Fiscal Responsibility Legislation.
This will give legislative backing to the state's announced fiscal targets, and Medium-Term
Fiscal Plan. A draft has been prepared and is under discussion. The state plans to table the
legislation in the budget session of the State Legislature.
(iv)  Procurement reforms.
Karnataka enacted the Kamataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act in 1999, and is
one of only two states in India to provide legislative backing to transparency in tendering. Now all
Government agencies in Kamataka follow the Act and rules strictly for tendering. A cell in Finance
Department acts as the nodal agency for guidance and clarification on the Act and Rules.
Following a procurement assessment study, a preliminary action plan for implementation of firther
procurement reforms has been drawn up. GoK also plans to establish a centralized, electronic
tender bulletin giving details of contracts bid out, bids received and the winning bid.
(v)   Drastic reduction in number of civil servant transfers.
A monitoring system to track transfers has been put in place. The system is updated half
yearly. The data for the period April-September, 2001 indicate that transfers have just been only
8,408, a drastic reduction from the figure of 54,311 for the year 2000/01. GoK has approved new
procedures which provide for the creation of cadre management conmmittees to oversee transfers for
7



all four classes of govermnent servants, raising maximum tenures for many posts, and insulating
entirely certain kinds of employees, such as teachers and nurses, from transfer.
(vi)  Implementation of pilot reforms to speed up government decision-making.
The Government has now introduced innovations, such as the desk-officer system and
single-file system, which would significantly cut the layers of file movement in the Government
departments in the Secretariat. In addition, the Government intends to shortly introduce a
Secretariat-Wide Local Area Network (LAN) to speed up government transactions.
(vii) Completion of functional reviews for major departments to rationalize the
government administration.
This is a key intermediate step towards the Government's goal of civil service
rationalization and right-sizing. Thirteen departmental functional reviews have been published as
part of the Administrative Reforms Commission (ARC) final report, which was released on
December 27, 2001.
(viii) Establishment of the Corruption Prevention Committee (CPC) to monitor and
publicly report on the Government's anti-corruption programme.
The Government has formed a high-level Corruption Prevention Committee under the Chief
Minister to publicize and monitor GoK initiatives to reduce corruption (e.g., procurement reforms,
right to information, citizens' charters, e-governance, and simplification of procedures for new
businesses) and to encourage further such initiatives. The Committee comprises ministers, senior
civil servants, representatives from NGOs, the legal profession, and media.
(ix)  Roll-out of pilot agency reforms to other parts of the state.
During 2001/02, GoK has further extended the agency reforms and citizens' charters which
began in 2000/01. A citizens' charter for the state has been issued by the Transport Department; a
charter for Stamps and Registration has been finalized, and will shortly be released, and a state-
wide charter for the police is in final stages of preparation. In addition to these departmental
initiatives, mnany important government agencies have also issued charters, including the Bangalore
Metropolitan Transport Corporation, and the Kamataka State Road Transport Corporation.
(x)   Implementation of Right to Informnation Act.
In 2000, Karnataka enacted India's most far-reaching freedom of information act. The
Government will notify the date of effectiveness for the Act shortly.
(xi)  Implementation of reform measures in the Karnataka Policy Paper on
Deregulation of the Business Environment.
GoK has prepared a Karnataka Industries Facilitation Bill, which will be introduced in the
State Legislature in the budget session. This Bill, the first of its kind in India, will enable significant
business deregulation, and is expected to encourage private investment and higher growthL The Bill
will simplify the approvals process, enable fast-track clearances for non-polluting industries, and
8



rationalize the inspection regime. Many existing rules have been amended to greatly reduce the
number of applications, returns and registers required to start and run a business in Karnataka.
(xii) Restructuring of Public sector undertakings.
GoK has been active in implementing its State Public Sector Reforms and Privatization.
Four enterprises have been closed to date (with operations ceased, severance payments (VRS)
offered to all staff and environmental screening completed): Chamundi Machine Tools, Mysore
Cosmetics, Karnataka State Veneers, and Mysore Match.
B. Other Reforms in 2001/02
15. GoK has also made significant progress in a number of other fiscal and governance reforms,
as summarized below:
* Improved fiscal disdosure and transparency: Karnataka is the only state to place
monthly accounts on a public website. Its preliminary actuals for 2000/01 were made public
in August 2001, and its actuals in October 2001, a much improved performance over
previous years.
*  Guarantee management: GoK's legislative cap on g7uarantees has been binding. Work is
underway to develop guidelines for the sectoral allocation of guarantees.
* Improved budgetary estimation and forecasting: Significant progress has been made
towards developing and adopting objective measures of revenue forecasting to improve
budgetary realism. These will be in place by the time of the 2002/03 budget. Data collection
is underway for development of a pension forecasting model.
* State output estimation and forecmasting: Work is underway to improve accuracy and
timeliness of estimation of gross state domestic product, starting with calculation of an
index of monthly industrial production from April 2002.
*  Financial accountability and management: Kamataka has become the first state to
establish and staff a full-time Controlier (Accounts Management) Office to lead the
modernization of its financial system. GoK is working to clear the backlog of accounts and
audits of various government bodies. The computerization of treasuries is proceeding on
schedule. Karnataka remains the only major Indian state not to use RBI's overdraft facility.
* Civil service reform: New rules have been issued to promote transparency in recruitment
by reducing the weight given to interview, and increasing the weight given to written
examinations. A project to develop a computerized human resources data base has been
launched.
* Decentralization: For urban local bodies, GoK has enacted legislation to back a roll-out of
the self-assessment for property tax successfully introduced in Bangalore over the last 12
months. GoK has also signed a reform-based MoU with Bangalore City Corporation. In
respect of rural decentralization, a task-force has been established to propose measures to
promote further decentralization. Its report is due shortly.
* E-governance: A successful programme of computerization of land-records is on track for
completion in 2002103. Other initiatives are also taking place (computerization of service
9



agencies, and of core functions, e.g., treasury computerization, human resource dase,
Secretariat network). An e-govemance strategy paper is being drafted, and will be
completed shortly.
Poverty and human development monitoring: A quarterly district-level agricultural
wages and prices monitoring system is being introduced. The 2002 Economic Survey will
include a chapter on poverty and human development. Analysis is underway of the 55tb
Round of-the NSS to develop district-level poverty estimates.
Karnataka Economic Restructuring: Refonns in 2002/03
16.   Fiscal and governance reforms will continue in 2002/03. In particular, with respect to the
Karnataka Economic Restructuring Progranme, our objectives for 2002/03 include achievement of
the following milestones:
Fiscal Policy and Public Expenditure Management
1. Further progress towards fiscal adjustnent including: (i) confirmation from 2001/02
actuals of fiscal adjustment in 2001/02; (ii) significant reduction in the consolidated deficit
as per the 2002/03 budget and Medium-Term Fiscal Plan targets, including a reduction in
the nominal consolidated deficit, while protecting high-priority expenditure areas; and (iii)
monthly performance in line with these targets.
2. Strengthening of the fiscal framework: (i) publication and dissemination of the 2002/03
Medium-Term Fiscal Framework; (ii) tabling of the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Bill in
the State Legislature; and (iii) continued adherence to the Karnataka Ceiling on Government
Guarantees Act.
3. Tax reforms, including progress towards introduction of VAT/rationalization of sales tax
regime.
4. Improved public expenditure management, including through: (i) publication of
departmental medium-term fiscal plans; and (ii) budget simplification.
5. Continuation of financial accountability reforms, including: (i) completion of treasury
computerization; (ii) general ban on end-year-use of Personal Deposit Accounts involving
GoK funds; and (iii) reduction in the backlog of accounts and audits.
6. Implementation of procurement reforms, including: (i) continued implementation of
Transparency in Public Procurement Act; and (ii) initial implementation of procurement
reform action plan.
Administrative Reforms
7. Publication and dissemination of the 2002/03 Governance Strategy and Action Plan.
8. Implementation of institutional measures to reduce transfers, resulting in a sustained low
volume of civil service transfers in 2002/03.
9. Actions towards rationalization of government activities, based on completed functional
reviews, in pilot departments.
10



10. Reforms to speed up decision making, through reduction in numbers of levels through
which files are processed, including in the offices of the Heads of Departments.
11. Agency reforms: (i) roll-out of pilot agency reforms to other agencies; and (ii)
deepening of existing agency reforms leading to improved service.
12. E-governance: (i) completion of e-governance strategy paper; and (ii) successful
completion of land records computerization.
13. Freedom of Information: effective implementation of the Act and its Rules.
Private Sector Development
14. Continued sale and closure of public sector units to reach total of 8 since launch.
15. Continued implementation of the Policy Paper on Deregulation of Business
Environment, including introduction of new inspection regime and approvals process.
Poverty Monitoring. and Statistical Strengthening
16. (i) Inclusion of a new poverty monitoring chapter in the 2002 Karnataka Economic
Survey; (ii) completion and publication of additional independent evaluations and action-
taken reports; and (iii) improvements in state output estimation.
Imnact of Reforms
17.   Our reform programme is already having an impact on development and growth in the state,
and, most importantly, on the well-being of our citizens, especially the less well-off:
* lie deregulaton initiative will increase business investment, and in particular small and
medium enterprises, which will help boost off-farm employment for the rurl poor.
* Our governance reforms are improving the delivery of public services at local levels, and
reducing corruption and harassment, including in rural areas, e.g., through the
computerization of the land records of millions of farmers.
* Our fiscal reforms will enable a greater share of resources to be focused on poverty-related
expenditures. The MTFP seeks to reorient public spending towards high priority
development areas (primary and secondary education, primary health care, rural water
supply, and basic infrastructure) that will provide basic social services to the poor and help
agricultural growth. Budgetary outcomes confirm that high-priority expenditures were
protected in 2000/01 despite fiscal adjustment. We are also avoiding cuts in high-priority
areas in 2001/02 despite the very difficult fiscal position.
* Increased emphasis to improving poverty monitoring and evaluation is helping the
Government to irnprove its policies.
11



* Negative impacts on displaced workers through the public enterprise reforms are being
mitigated by generous severance packages. We have also hired a Safety Net Advisor and
developed a training and counselling progranmme for displaced workers.
Moatlwion
18.   As can be seen from the above, GoK has made good progress in implementing its lconomic
Restructuring Programme. We require funding from the second Loan/Credit to meet the cobts of
reform in 2001/02, including the cost of moving the power sector subsidy on to the budget; an
essential part of power sector reforms leading to privatization, and VRS payments to the rerenched
employees in the closed/sold public enterprises.
19.   We request DEA to endorse our proposal to the World Bank for the second loan/c*rdit of
$100 million under the Karnataka Economic Restrcturing Programme, so as to enable the IState to
receive the funds before the end of the current fiscal year. Since the need for financial support for
our reform progranme will continue into the next year, we shall also be approaching Gol is
2002/03 for furither financial support from the World Bank, on the basis of our perfbnmancq record.
With regards,
(TERESA BHATTACHARYA)I
shrt.& Vasudev
Seriy to Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
North Block
NEW DELH 110 001
A*tachment: Karnataka Economic Restnuctunng Programme Policy Matrix (2000/01-2004)05)
12



Annex B Page 1 of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 2000101-2004105 (February 2002)
Reform Area         Government Strategy                       Reform Milestones to Date                               Future Reform Milestones                    Performance
1 ______________________       _ 1      2000/01           1           2001/02                      2002/03         |    April 2003-2005           benchmarks
I. FISCAL REFORMS & PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT: To strengthen the fiscal and financial aspects of govemment's operations
A. Establish       Develop a Medium-Term Fiscal  White Paper on State's Fiscal 2001/02 Medium-Term Fiscal Plan  Publication of 2002/03  Issue of MTFP annually  Fiscal performance
Framework for      Plan (MTFP) to guide fiscal   Position issued and medium-  (MTFP) published and disseminated.  MTFP and dissemination  including reporting of  Annual deficit reduction
Fiscal             adjustment to avoid a debt-trap,  term fiscal targets announced. Vonthly monitoring of consolidated  with 2002103 budget,  outcomes against targets.  targets derved from
Sustainability &   and achieve GoK's announced   Reduction in budgetary fiscal  fiscal position introduced.  showing nominal deficit  Adherence to Fiscal      Government's MTFP for
Transparency      fiscal targets (zero revenue deficit  deficit in 2000/01 (from 4.5%  UTFP and its fiscal targets adhered to  reduction in the deficblt    includg         deficit
Objective          and 3% consolidated fiscal deficit  to 4.0% of GSDP).     espite economic slowdown and the                         Elimination of off-budget  borrowing and the power
Fiscal.adjustment to   2se te M.                                           drought): GoK consolidated deficit  Introduction of Kamataka  borrowing after 2004/05.  Sector deficit; monthly
Fiscal adustment to  Issue the MTFP annually with the                       arget (including power) of Rs 73  Fiscal Responsibility Bill in  Achievement of GoKss monitong of fiscal position;
avoid a debt trap.  budget, including reporting of                          billion on track to be achieved,  the State Legislature.  public targets of zero   reduced disparities
Fiscal transparency  outcomes against targets.                              resulting in restriction of consolidated                  revenue deficit and 3%   between budget, revised
to promote public  Provide legislative backing to the                       deficit to 6.7% of GSDP.                                  fiscal deficit by 2004/05.  and actual estimates.
debate and         MTFP through a Fiscal                                    Fiscal Responsibility Legislation draft                                             Cash /liability management
awareness.         Responsibility Act.                                      eleased for expert consultations.                                                   Number of days of overdraft
Identify and consolidate off-                            Draft 2002/03 MTFP approved by the                                                 with RBI (target of zero);
budget sources of borrowings into                        Govemment.                                                                         reduced borrowings from
fiscal indicators; move away from                                                                                                           public account; borrowing
reliance on off-budget borrowing.                                                                                                           based on fiscal targets
Adhere to oontingent liability cap  Legislation on capping  Adherence to quantitative targets in  Continued adherence to  Continued adherence to  rather than availability.
and better manage contingent  guarantees passed (1999),  the Karnataka Ceiling on         quantitative targets in the  ceiling on guarantees, and  Contingent liabilifty
liabilities.                  Guarantee fees made        Govemment Guarantees Act.         Karnataka Ceiling on    guidelines on their      management
mandatory.                                                  Govemment Guarantees     allocation.              Compliance with Karnataka
Act.                                              Ceiling on Govemment
Issuance of guidelines for                        Guarantees Cap; lowlzero
sectoral allocations of                           devolution of guarantees to
guarantees.                                       GoK.
Make as much fiscal information  Overview of Budget expanded  Continued publication of monthly  Further budgetary  Release of further
as possible available to the public. to include information on off-  fiscal accounts on the website.  simplification and release of information in the Budget
budget borrowing, tax                                       information.             Overview.
expenditures and tax arrears.
Publication of monthly
accounts on the intemet
commenced.
Simplifications in budgetary
conventions.



Annex B Page 2 of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 2000101-2004105 (February 2002)
Reform Area         Government Strategy                       Reform Milestones to Date                              Future Reform Milestones                     Performance
2000101                       2001102                      2002103              April 2003-2005           benchmarks
Improve estimation and        Fiscal indicators for 2000/01  Studies on budget estimation and  Completion of pension  Continued improvement in
forecasting of key variables (e.g.,  show improvement in  forecasting (fiscal marksmanship)  forecasting model.    estimation and forecasting.
major taxes, non-tax revenues,  budgetary realism.       completed.                       Improvement in non-tax
and pensions).                                           More timely revenue monitoring   revenue monitoring.
introduced to improve accuracy of
budget and revised estimates.
Data collection underway for pension
forecasting model.
B. Reform          Establish Tax Reform Commission  Tax Reform Commission first  Release of final report of Tax                                                Growth in tax revenue and
Revenue System    to set out road map for tax reforms  report submitted.    Reforms Commission.                                                                tax/GSDP ratio.
- both on policy and administrative                                                                                                         Reduction in tax arrears.
Objective          arrangements.                                                                                                                               Positive feedback from
Policy and         Replace sales tax, entry tax and  Sales tax concessions for new  Continued VAT preparation  Rationalization of sales tax  Introduction of VAT (April  taxpayers.
administrative    tumover tax by Value-Added Tax  investments abolished and  (legislation, regulations,      regime and associated    2003)
reforms to raise   based on self-assessment and a  floor rates for sales tax  consultations, training, etc, extension  administrative, regulatory  Further reforms to
additional revenue,  functional organization.    introduced.                of self-assessment, including    and legal changes (further  rationalize indirect tax
Improve efficiency,                              VAT preparation initiated.  clearance of 3-year backlog in  extension of self-       regime.
and reduce                                                                  scrutiny in dealer forms).       assessment, use of modern
compliance costs.                                                                                            audit techniques) in
preparation for VAT.
Other taxes: Overhaul stamps &  Changes in stamps &       Implementation of transport tax  Additional transport tax  Further tax reforms to
registration (S&R), and motor  registration and motor vehide  reforms (shift to ad valorem rates,  reforms (further reduction in complete implementation of
vehicle tax to close loopholes,  tax announced.           rationalization of slabs, reduction of  exemptions, resolution of  Tax Reforms Commission
boost buoyancy, as well as to                            exemptions).                     subsidy dispute).        Report.
improve service to customers/tax-                         Enforcement machinery strengthened  Further strengthening of
payers. Strengthen enforcement                            esp. in excise.                 excise enforcement.
in excise to reduce evasion                               Computerization started in Stamps  Stamps and Registration
and Registration, and introduction of  reforms especially
more customer-friendly practices.  computerization.
Development of integrated
checkposts (transport,
excise, sales tax).
As per MTFP, improve cost-    Rates increased for canal   Tax Reform Commission started a  Completion of report on  As per 2002-03.
recovery for 'non-merit       irrigation, higher and technical  report on non-tax revenue reforms.  non-tax revenues.
govemment services, such as   education. Automatic       Improved monitoring of non-tax   More systematic monitoring
irrigation, transport, higher and  indexation of bus fares  revenues.                     of non-tax revenues.
technical education, hospital  introduced.                Increase in Bangalore water tariffs.  Greater incentives to
services, and water supply.                                                         Departments to collect non-
tax revenues.



Annex B Page 3 of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 2000/01-2004105 (February 2002)
Reform Area        Government Strategy                      Reform Milestones to Date                             Future Reform Milestones                   Performance
2000/01                      2001/02                     2002/03             April 2003.2005           benchmarks
C. Improve        Control wage bill while staffing-up  Recruitment control strategy  Hiring restraint continues. Increased  Continued control of wage  As per 2002/03.  Wage bill and civil service
Composition of    in high-priority areas (education,  established, including high-  hiring of teachers and medical  bill.                                 size.
Public Spending   health, police, forestry).   level control procedure.   personnel, especially in rural areas.                                           Spending in priority sectors.
Shift spending towards high-  Spending in priority sectors  2001/02 budget protects spending in  2002103 budget protects  Additional annual increases  Power sector financing
priority areas: health, elementary  protected in 2000/01.  high-priority areas.        high-priority expenditure  in priority sectors.  requirement (monthly
& secondary education, rural water                                                      areas.                                          monitoring).
supply, roads; and maintenance in
irrigation and public facilities.                                                                                                       Spending on subsidies.
Shift spending from salaries &                                                                                                          Volume of spending in
subsidies to non-wage O&M.                                                                                                              expenditure risk areas.
Protect capital spending during
fiscal adjustment.
Reduce and better target     Study commissioned to      Study on subsidy reforms completed.  Implementation of  As per 2002/03.
subsidies.                   develop individual subsidy  Food subsidy cap adhered to. Pilot  recommendations of
reforms.                  computerization of ration cards  subsidy study for improved
Food subsidy redesigned to  underway to reduce leakages.  targeting and reduced
improve targeting, and funding                            leakages.
capped in nominal terms.
D. Strengthen     Institutionalize the Medium-Term  FY02 expenditure ceilings  Development of departmental MTFPs Publication of pilot  Fully institutionalize rolling  Shifts in expenditure
Public Expenditure  Fiscal Plan into the annual  allocated to line departments  for key sectors (health and family  departmental MTFPs,  MTFP process in  priorities over the medium
Management        budgetary process.            consistent with MTFP.     welfare, medical education, primary  consistent with budgetary  govemment's policy  term.
Objectives        Establish Expenditure Review  Three pilot line departments  and secondary educaton, public  allocations.        making, planning and    Closure or restructuring of
Institutionalize a  Committee (ERC) to debate   (Health, Education, PWD)  works department, and rural water  ERC continues to be active. budgeting process.  schemes following
medium-term       priorities and rigorously review any initiated expenditure  supply).                                                                    independent evaluation.
perspective into the  new schemes for consistency with  programming consistent with                                                                       Better delivery of
budgetary process.  MTFP before inclusion in budget.  MTFP.                                                                                               expenditure programs as
Tighten the link                                Expenditure Review                                                                                        measured by beneficiary
between                                         Committee set up, and made                                                                                assessments in evaluations
expenditure                                     operational.                                                                                              and household surveys.
composition and                                 New proposals scrutinized by                                                                              Expenditure savings
policy priorities.                              ERC before presentation to                                                                                identified by line
Greater focus on                                Cabinet for indusion in the                                                                               departments.
performance of                                  budget.                                                                                                   Number and volume of
expenditure                                     2001-02 budget consistent                                                                                 supplementary budgets.
programs.                                      with MTFP.



Annex B Page 4 of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 20001001-2004105 (February 2002)
Reform Area         Government Strategy                       Reform Milestones to Date                              Future Reform Milestones                    Performance
2000/01                       2001/02                      2002/03             April 2003-2005            benchmarks
Increase the flexibility of spending  Committee for Elimination and  ARC report identifies many  Completion of     Roll-out of 2002/03 reforms.
departments to provide them with  Rationalization of Redundant  opportunities for scheme merger and  scheme/budget head  Integration of ZP budgets
incentives to seek efficiency  Schemes created.           budgetary simplification.       merger and rationalization  with state budget through
savings.                      2001/02 budget eliminated,                                  for at least 10 Departments  use of common set of
merged or rationalized many                                in the 2002/03 budget.    object codes.
schemes of several                                          Use of departmental
departments.                                                MTFPs in budget will result
in scheme simplification
and merger.
Strengthening of incentives
for Departments to identify
budgetary savings as part
of the budgetary process.
Simplification of object
codes to improve budgetary
flexibility.
Reduce reliance on supplementary  Supplementary budget    Downward trend in supplementary  Continued downward trend  As per 2002/03
budgets to improve budgetary  volumes below level of     budget volume continues.         in supplementary budget
transparency and harden        previous year.             Expenditure Review Committee    volumes.
departmental budget constraints.                          asked to screen all new proposals for Statement to be prepared
supplementary budgets.           with supplementary budget
to highlight main features
and show consistency with
MTFP.
E. Strengthen      Develop accounting capability.  Office of Controller (Accounts  Report on measures to strengthen  Completion of State  Building of state's capacity  More timely financial
Public Financial                                 Management) established to  internal controls in priority areas  Financial Accountability and on accounting and payroll  statements
Management and     Improve timeliness and disclosure  lead the public financial  completed: reconciliations, Personal  Management Study; and  functions.       Reduction in backlog of
Accountability     of financial reporting.       accountability improvement  Deposit Accounts (PDAs),        approval of public financial  Further clearance and  accounts and audits of local
program.                   loans/advances, and guarantee/debt  accountability improvement  elimination of backlog of  bodies and PSUs.
Objective                                        Published summarized budget recording/ reporting.           program.                 accounts and audits.     More timely and complete
Improve                                          information     ond inmofeof
trsparovenc                                      information (based on monthly  Progress in clearing backlog of  Implementation of    Preparation financial   responses to audit
transparency,                                    accounts) on Internet.     accounts and audit of KGID, PSUs,  measures to strengthen  statements according to  observations prepared and
enable better                                    Clearing of backlog of     PRIs (ZPs, TPs, GPs).            intemal controls in priority  accepted public sector  disclosed.
financeal                                        accounts for local         State Financial Accountability and  areas, including measures  accounting standards; and
persremance                                      govemments and PSEs        Management Study initiated.     to improve transparency in  disclose timely financial  Reduction In audit
reportimng,  anddrs                              initiated                  Ofieo    otolr(conspublic account deposits,               statements.              observations.
weaknesses in                                                               Management) made functional.     year-end use of PDAs     Robust interal control   Betteriter  ctrols
internal control and                                                                                        involving GoK funds.      system operational.      reduction in un-reconciled
public accountability                                                                                        Clearance of backlog of  Improvement of public   items, reduction in
and enabte betoer                                                                                            accounts and audits up to  financial accountability of  magnitude of Public
legislative oversight.                                                                                       2000/01 of PRIs (ZPs, TPs, local bodies.          Account deposits.
GPs), PSUs, KGID.



Annex B Page S of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 2000(01-2004105 (February 2002)
Reform Area         Government Strategy                       Reform Milestones to Date                               Future Reform Milestones                    Performance
2000101                       2001102                      2002103              April 2003*2005           benchmarks
Improve audit responsiveness.  Provided official response to  Office of Controller (Accounts  Implementation of    Timely follow-up on audit
the CAG's letter on the 1998-  Management) given responsibility for  measures to ensure timely  findings, including
99 Audit Report.           tracking and improving audit     responses to audit findings; disclosure; and reduce
responsiveness.                  and strengthen monitoring  audit qualifications.
and follow-up mechanisms.
Preparation of GoK's
response to latest audit
report.
Computerize key accounting    Computerization of treasuries  Substantial progress with treasury  Completion of     Computerization of other
functions.                    initiated (contract awarded).  computerization.             computerization of       key functions (e.g., payroll,
Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (urban  Treasuries.           Departments on check
local body) Fund-based Accounting  Iniflation of rural local  system, and DDOs).
System implementation progressing  govemment financial
well.                            computerization.
F. Refomn Public    Legislate to enforce transparency  Transparency in Tenders and  Adherence to Transparency in Public  Continued adherence to the  Review efficacy of  Increased number of
Procurement        in procurement.               Procurement Law passed.     Procurement Act.                Transparency Act.        Procurement Act and take  Tender Bulletins on
Objective                                   .        .                                                                                corrective action.       Internet. Increased number
More transparent   Reform program to strengthen                             Completion of Karnataka          Initial implementation of  Continued implementation  of procurement audits.
and competitive    procurement transparency and                              Procurement Assessment.         procurement reforms, as  of procurement reforms.  Perception of reduced
procurement        efficiency.                                               Establishment of procurement policy  per action plan.                             corruption in procurement,
processes that                                                              cell.                                                                              as measured by survey of
improve efficiency,                                                                                                                                            officials and public.
lower costs and                                                              Development of an action plan for
reduce corruption.                                                          implementation of Assessment
recommendations.
II. ADMINISTRATIVE REFORMS: To improve the efficiency and transparency of govemment functioning and service delivery
A. Define          Articulate Govemment strategy to  Administrative Reforms  Govemance Strategy and Action   Publication and          Continue updates of GSAP, Monitorng of action taken
Govemance          define the role of Govemment and  Commission established.  Plan (GSAP) published disseminated  dissemination of 2002/03  monitor and publicly report  against proposals in
Strategy          for improving efficiency and   First ARC report received.  to the public.                  Governance Strategy and  on progress.             successive GSAPs.
transparency of govemment                                 Final ARC report released.      Action Plan, with action
operations.                                                                               taken report on the first
GSAP.



Annex B Page 6 of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 2000101-2004105 (February 2002)
Reform Area         Government Strategy                       Reform Milestones to Date                              Future Reform Milestones                     Performnance
2000101                       200102                      2002103              April 2003.2005           benchmarks
B. Reform the Civil Reduce and rationalize transfers  2001/02 Budget Speech  General Transfers for 2001/02   Implementation of        Monitor progress in      Drastic reduction in number
Service and Public  of civil servants through (i) a  commitment to reduce   banned.                         institutional measures to  reducing transfers and take  of transfers, starting in
Administration     monitoring system; and (ii) puffing  transfers.          Monitoring system introduced and  reduce transfers        corrective actions.      2001102.
in place new institutional                                placed on the intemet.          (exemption of cadres from                         Stability and increase in
Objectr ve         mechanisms.                                              New govemment policy on transfers  transfers; functioning of                       tenure for key positions in
Improve                                                                    included inGA.cadre management                                                      monitoring system.
transparency,                                                                       iGAPcommittees).Reudcoupinn
reduce corruption,                                                          Monitoring system updated.       Sustained low level of                            Reduced cornuption in
rationalize                                                                 Drastic reduction in the transfer of  transfers.                                   and improved employee
depa, ments and                                                             civil servants achieved.         Public reporting on                               motivation, as measured by
functions, improve                                                          New rules introduced to restrain  progress in implementing                         survey.
internal efficiency,                                                        transfers in the future and make  transfer policy.                                 Elimination and
strengthen human                                                            them more transparent.                                                            cnoiaino
resource                                                                                                                                                       consolidabon of
management.       Increase transparency in                                  Issuance of new rules to reduce                                                    departments
recruitment.                                             weight given to interviews reduced                                                 Reduction in size of civil
vis4fvis competitive/ qualifying                                                   service, particularly in areas
examinations.                                                                      where functions are
Introduce common exam for                                                          eliminated and
candidate teachers to reduce                                                       consolidated.
discretion associated with individual                                              Greater meritocracy in
college tests.                                                                     recruitment, promotion and
Rationalize the civil service, and  Functional reviews for major  Completion of functional reviews for  Actions towards  Complete rationalization  personnel evaluation.
reduce it in size, by restructuring  departments initiated.  13 major departments to guide the  rabonalization of  based on functional
and reducing the size of major  Mines & Geology Department  process of ratonalizing govemment  govemment activibes based  reviews.
departments.                  consolidated with Major    functions.                       on completed functional
Irrigation Department.     Recommendations incorporated into  reviews in pilot
Announcement made to       final ARC report.                departments.
merge Institutional Finance                                 Freeze on creation of
Department with Finance                                     quasi-govemmental
Department.                                                 agencies, except in rare
cases which are adequately
justified, to prevent
duplication and waste.



Annex B Pa e 7 of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 2000/01-2004/05 (February 2002)
Reform Area         Government Strategy                       Reform Milestones to Date                               Future Reform Milestones                    Performance
2000/01                       2001/02                      2002/03              April 2003-2005           benchmarks
Speed up Govemment                                        Steps to speed up decision making  Introduction of Secretariat  Continued monitoring and
administrative                                            and reduce the layers through which  LAN.                extension of reforms.
transactions/dedsion-making time.                        files move: desk-office system piloted  Further reforms to reduce  Revision of Secretarat
in at least two sections in each  numbers of levels through  Manual of Office
department, and the single-file  which files are processed,  Procedures to reflect the
system in 6 departments.        including in the offices of  new system.
the Heads of Departments.
Review of deregulation of
financial and administrative
powers to identify areas for
further delegation.
Monitoring of the impact of
new procedures.
C. Citfzen Charters  Improve services in a widening  Agency reforms, including  Computerization of transport  Expand coverage of agency As per 2002-03.        Improved service delivery,
& Agency Reforms number of agencies through      issuance of citizens' charters  department in Bangalore complete;  reforms and deepen                         as measured by user
to Improve Service  agency reforms consisting of:  for pilot services in Bangalore  statewide transport charter released.  existing agency reforms.            surveys and reduction in
Delivery          (i) user surveys or consultations to  with large public interface:                         Increased publicity for                           time to deliver services.
identify problems and benchmark  matemity hospitals, and  KSRTC (state bus company) charter  charters.
Objective          progress; (ii) improvement in  transport department (motor  released.
Improved service   business process/             vehicle registration, driving  NGOs involved in design and  Exteral monitorng of the
delivery in services  computerization; (iii) establishment license and tax payment).  implementation of agency  performance of the
with large public  of grievance redressal        Utility charters released for  reforms/ctizen charters.     reformed agencies,
interface Use      mechanisms; (v) publication of  power company, and       Grievance redressal strengthened.  including user surveys.
demonstration effect citizen charters.           Bangalore bus company.      First user survey completed(in
for scaling-up.                                                             transport) to provide feedback.
D. Enhance         For urban local govemments,   Self-assessment in property  Acts amended to enhance revenue  Roll-out of property tax self- Extension of property tax  Increase revenue base at
Effectiveness of   increase their revenue base.  tax introduced in Bangalore  capacity of municipalities via  assessment to major urban  self-assessment to all  local levels.
Decentralization                                 leading to 30% increase in  introduction of the self-assessment  centres.            municipalities.          More efficient delivery of
Objective                                        revenue base.              of property tax across the state.                         Strengthening of other tax  local services, as measured
More effective local                                                        Bangalore Development Authority                           bases for Municipalities.  by household surveys.
govrnmefentsv byca                                                          procedures improved to reduce
governments by                                                              delays and improve transparency in
strengthening                                                               urban land allocation.
accountability     For rural local governments,  Untied element of PRI funding  Report on administrative     Implementation of measures for further administrative
mechanisms at the  strengthen administration and  increased.                decentralization to rural areas  decentralization.
local levels while  financial capability.        Land revenue and property tax completed.                    Implementation of recommendations of Second State
enhancing
autonomy.          Devolve more flexible funds and  rates in rural areas increased.                          Finance Commission report.
greater powers to local                                                                   Training programs for panchayat functionaries in planning
govemments.                                                                               and budgeting.
E. Enhance         Provide legislative basis to right to  Right to Information (RTI) Act  Consultations with NGO on RTI rules. Implementation of and  Evaluate functioning and  Increased public access to
Freedom of         information.                  passed.                    Draft rules gazetted.            publicity for the Act and  impact of RTI law.     information, measured by
Information                                                                                                  Rules.                                            surveys.



Annex B Page 8 of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 2000/01-2004/05 (February 2002)
Reform Area         Govemment Strategy                        Reform Milestones to Date                              Future Reform Milestones                     Performance
2000(01                       2001102                      2002103              April 2003-2005           benchmarks
Objective          Make government records                                                                   Cataloging, indexing, and  Further implementation of
Greater flow of    accessible.                                                                               computerzing of          2002/03 initiatives.
information to public                                                                                        govemment records,
to increase                                                                                                  including increased use of
participation,                                                                                               IT in selected departments.
transparency and                                                                                             Training of information
accountability, and                                                                                          officers.
to reduce corruption.                                                                                        Interet placement of
Govemment Acts/Rules,
and GOs for selected
departments with public
interface.
Disclosure of information as
per suo moto requirements
of RTI Act.
Focus on areas of public demand                                                           Monitorng RTI requests to  Resources put into making
for information,                                                                          understand areas of public  information available where
demand for information.  there is high public
demand.
F. Use Electronic-  Expand the use of e-govemance  E-governance initiatives  Continue progress in FYOO-01    Publication of E-        Mainstreaming of e-      Greater use of e-
Govemance to      throughout govemment.          underway in sales tax,     initiatives.                     govemance Strategy, and  govemance initiatives more  govemance in departments.
improve efficiency                               revenue, treasures, land                                   implementation of 2002/03  broadly within and across
and transparency                                 records computenzation.                                     Action Plan.             departments.
Objective                                                                                                    Completion of land records
computefization.
Use IT to reduce                                                                                             Introduction of Secretariat-
delays & corruption,                                                                                         Wide LAN.
and enhance
transparency.                                                                                                Installation of Human
Resource Database.
G. Implement and   Strengthen anti-corruption                               Measures included in the         Implementation of        Further measures as per  Perception of reduced
Monitor a          enforcement.                                             Govemance Strategy and Action    measures to strengthen Lok 2002/03.               corruption, as measured by
Comprehensive                                                               Plan (GSAP) to strengthen Lok    Ayukta (e.g.,                                     surveys.
Anticorruption                                                              Ayukta Office (anti-corruption   computerization,
Program                                                                     agency).                         strengthened investigative
Objectiive                                                                                                   capacity).
Obhaectedpublic    Strengthen corruption prevention  Govemmenfs corruption  Corruption Prevention Committee  Corruption Prevention Committee active.
Enhanced public    measures.                     prevention strategy        established to monitor and publidy  Monitoring of implementation of corruption prevention
monitorrng, and                                  (procurement reforms,      report on progress in anti-corruption  initiatives, assess progress, and take deeper measures as
reducedi corrupton                               transfers, deregulation, right to  and deepen system reforms. Chaired  necessary.
information, improved financial by Chief Minister, and comprising  Surveys to identify pripal areas of comuption and the
management) induded in the  senior politicians, bureaucrats, and  scope for system-wide reforms aimed at prevention.
GSAP.                      civil society representatives.



Annex B Page 9 of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 2000101-2004105 (February 2002)
Reform Area         Govemment Strategy                        Reform Milestones to Date                    I          Future Reform Milestones                    Performance
I         2000101          |            2001/02             J        2002103         |   April 2003-2005            benchmarks
111. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT: To improve the business environment and reduce involvement of govemment in commercial activities
A. Restructure and Set up policy framework and   Public Sector Restructuring  Institutional arrangements functional.                                           Number of PSUs
Privatize Public   durable institutional mechanism to  Commission established and  Phase I PSUs expanded to include                                            sold/closed/restructured.
Enterprises        support PSU closure/privatization.  functional.          17 PSUs.
Govemment approval of policy  Phase II PSUs identified.
Objective                                        paper on PSU Reform and
Privatization and related
Withdraw state from                              procedures, with 15 PSUs
commercial activities                            identified for first phase of
to reduce                                        program.
administrative and                               High-Powered Committee
fiscal burden of                                 established for implementation
PSUs.                                            of new PSU policy.
Close/privatize PSUs          Operations closed,          Close/privatize an additional 3 PSUs.  Substantially complete  Close or privatize remaining
environmental screening    Work underway for                Phase I                  PSUs covered by policy
complete, and VRS          closure/privatization of all Phase I  closure/privatization.  paper by March, 2005.
(severance) payments offered  PSUs.                         Initiate work on Phase II  Restructure the remaining
in I PSU.                  New VRS package offered.         PSUs.                    PSUs.
Asset valuations underway in closed
PSUs.
Social Safety Net advisor appointed.
Environmental screening completed
for Phase I PSUs.
B. Deregulation    Reforms to make it easier and                            Govemment approval and publication  Continued implementation  On basis of feedback from  Feedback from industry via
and Business       quicker to start a new business in                       of the Policy Paper on Business  of Policy Paper on       business, further simplify  surveys (e.g. on number of
Environment        Kamataka.                                                 Deregulation.                   Business Deregulation.   business establishment   inspections, time to set up a
Objective                                                                   Amalgamation of 3 separate single-  Strengthening of KUM to  procedures.           business).
Improved business                                                           window agencies.                 make it more effective (one-                      Investment volumes in
environment; less                                                            Completion of procedures for    stop shop for business).                          Kamataka.
bureaucratic                                                                introducing the Karnataka Industries  Production of
interference; more                                                          Facilitation Bill (KIFB) in the State  Entrepreneurs Guide to
private investment                                                          Legislature to enable fast-track  explain new simplified rules
and higher growth                                                           clearances (through time-bound   for starting-up and running
clearances and self-certification).  a business.
A single Common Application Form  Introduction of Common
prepared to replace 16 separate  Application Form and time-
application forms currently in use  bound clearances.
Building plan approvals
required reduced from 3 to
1.                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Annex B Pa e IO of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 2000101-2004105 (February 2002)
Reform Area         Government Strategy                         Reform Milestones to Date                                Future Reform Milestones                      Performance
2000/01                        2001/02                       2002/03              April 2003-2005             benchmarks
Reforms to reduce the regulatory                           Government approval and publication  Introduction of new    On the basis of feedback
burden of running a business in                            of the Policy Paper on Business   inspection regime based on  from business, further
Kamataka.                                                  Deregulation.                     random sampling and       reduce regulatory burden of
Returns/registers companies are   transparent procedures.   running a business.
currently required to maintain/submit
reduced from 24 to 4.
Further reforms to improve                                                                   Initiate reforms to improve  Complete reforms initiated
business environment in                                                                      industrial township       in 2002/03.
Kamataka.                                                                                    management.
Reforms to streamline land-
use laws and regulations in
pre-identified industrial
zones.
Regular feedback from the private  Public conference on business  Baseline survey of businesses  Second survey to monitor  Additional measures to
sector.                        environment.                 underway (by NGO).               impact of reforms.        institutionalize the
public/private dialogue.
IV. POVERTY MONITORING AND STATISTICAL STRENGTHENING: To make better use of data to inform                      policies and evaluate theirpoverty impact
A. Poverty and     Develop Poverty and Human       Human Development Division  Staffing with consultant support and  Strengthening of PHDMS and Human Development   Functioning of the PHDMS.
Human              Development and Poverty        constituted, and Advisory   technical assistance.              Division, including through TA.                    Use of its results by policy
Development        Monitoring System (PHDMS).      Group appointed.
Monitoring System  Institutionalize the 1999 Human                             After consultations, terms of     Poverty and Human        Annual monitoring chapter  makers.
Objective          Development Report with regular                             reference of the proposed monitoring  Development Monitoring  in Economic Survey.    Poverty/human
A more pro-poor    tracking of and reporting on                                system and list of indicators finalized  chapter to be included in                   development targets to
development        poverty and social indicators.                             (including baseline estimates where  the annual Economic                              judge success of overall
strategy and better-                                                           available).                       Survey published by GOK,                           program (including health
informed policy                                                                Production of district-level poverty  Preparation of second                          and education targets).
making made                                                                    estimates based on latest household  Human Development
possible by high-                                                              survey.                           Report following the
quality poverty-                                                              Introduction of quarteriy economic  processing of data from the
related data being                                                             bulletins for tracking district-level  2001 Census Data.
made available on a                                                            changes in agricultural wages and
timely basis.                                                                  prices.
Undertake special studies to focus  Study of rural drinking water  Surveys and field-work for Gulbarga  Gulbarga district study  Carry out other special-
policy attention on critical poverty-  and primary education users,  district study complete.  completed and findings  purpose studies as needed.
related issues.                officials, and facilities in                                  publicized.
__  _  _  _  _ _   _   _ _  _  _ _   _  _ _  _    G  b r in i e ._                _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _   _   _ _  _ _   _  _ _  _  _  _   _  _ _  _  _ _   _    __  _  _ _  _   _ __Gulbarga   initiated.



Annex B Page 11 of 11
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: 2000101-2004/05 (February 2002)
Reform Area         Government Strategy                       Reform Milestones to Date                               Future Reform Milestones                    Performance
2000/01                       2001/02                      2002V03             April 2003-2005            benchmarks
B. Program         Make line departments         Independent Evaluation      10 pilot departments initiate program  Pilot evaluations  Roll out of evaluation  Number of evaluations
Evaluation         responsible for commissioning  Initiative Order issued    evaluations.                    completed.               initiative.              undertaken.
Objective         independent evaluations of their  requiring all departments to  Departmental evaluation strategies  Second round of evaluation               Quality and relevance of
More and more      programs (the 'Independent    commission regular program  developed on pilot basis as part of  initiative underway.                         the evaluations.
external evaluations  Evaluation Initiative' order).  evaluations from extemal  DMTFP exercise (see lIV).
ofxgovemalmevaluations                           aeesTringpoddagencies.     Tai                                                                                Use of the evaluations to
of govemment                                            Training ~~~~~~~~~~provided and more detailed                                     improve program design.
programs completed                                                           guidelines issued.                                                                improve_program_design
and used to improve  Ensure that completed evaluations                       Workshop held to review 5 completed  Require that all new project Establishment of 'corporate
program design     are used to improve program                              evaluations and for departments to  proposals show how    culture' which ensures that
design.                                                   provide "action taken' reports.  lessons of evaluation have  evaluations are done and
High-level Evaluation Coordination  been incorporated.    used as a matter of routine.
Committee established to review  Establish data base of
actions taken in response to     completed evaluations.
evaluation reports.              Prepare action-taken
reports on completed
evaluations.
C. State Output    Improve state output estimation by                       Govemment Committee report on    Production of monthly    Further computerization.  Timeliness of output and
Estimation        improving data sources and                                 improving state output estimation.  industrial production series.  Identified gaps in GSDP  inflation estimates.
Objective          processing, and by increasing the                                                         Computerization of the   estimation tackled.      Reduction in divergence
To make estimates  demand for output estimates.                                                              process of production of  Production of quarterly  between earlier and later
of state output and                                                                                          2001/02 quick estimates.  GSDP estimates.         estimates of output growth
inflation more timely                                                                                        Expansion of the annual  GSDP and other DES data  and inflation.
and accurate.                                                                                                Economic Survey to include  made more easily available  More use and analysis of
To encourage                                                                                                 GSDP figures and analysis. to public.             state output and inflation
production of      Encourage academic/private                                                                Initiate process to generate  As per 2002/03.     estimates.
forecasts of state  institutes to deepen economic                                                            GSDP forecasts for                                Annual economic forecasts
output and inflation.  reporting of Kamataka, and to start                                                   Kamataka.                                         for Kamataka
producing economic forecasts.



Annex C
Page 1 of 2
Annex C: Government ofKarnataka Fiscal Trends
(Rs billion at current prices)                     1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01  2001-02  2001-02  2002-03 2003-04 2004-05
MTFP
Actuals             target  Estimate       Projections
Revenue(l)                                          102.25  108.10  124.10 142.63   173.28  158.73  180.07 201.39 228.62
Own Revenue                                         72.88  79.93  88.59  101.59   121.55   113.35  126.91 141.40 162.86
Tax                                               64.12  69.43  77.44   90.59    108.51  101.30  114.00 127.45 147.12
Non- Tax                                           8.76  10.50  11.15  11.00     13.04    12.05   12.91  13.94  15.74
Central Resources                                  29.37  28.17  35.51   41.04     51.73   45.37   53.16  59.99  65.76
Shared Taxes                                     21.76   19.24  21.33  25.57     30.71   25.21   28.67  32.23  36.25
Grants                                            7.61   8.94   14.18  15.46     21.02   20.17   24.49  27.76  29.51
Expenditure (2)                                     116.90  136.64  166.86 184.80   224.56  210.09  237.45 263.63 283.72
Revenue                                            105.00  120.09  151.30 166.04  206.24   195.97  217.63 233.40 246.61
Capital                                             11.91  16.55  15.56  18.76     18.32    14.12   19.82  30.23  37.11
Memo: interest                                       15.36   18.59  24.07  28.74     35.21   35.10   43.13  49.89  56.48
Fiscal Deficit(3=2-1)                                14.65  28.54  42.77   42.17     51.27   51.36   57.38  62.25  55.10
Borrowing excl. non-PF public accounts (3a)         8.96  22.85  37.08  34.26     47.54   47.63    55.38  62.25  55.10
Borrowing from non-PF public accounts (3b)          5.69   5.69   5.69   7.91      3.73    3.73     2.00   0.00   0.00
NetOffBudgetBorrowing(4=4a-4b)                        8.10   6.11   10.13  15.51     17.98   15.98    12.09  5.52   -3.37
Gross off-budgetborrowing (4a)                      8.10   6.11   10.13  15.51     18.85   16.85   14.50   12.80  5.89
Principal repayments (4b)                           0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00      0.87    0.87    2.41   7.28   9.26
Powersector(KPTCL)borrowing(5=5a-5b)                  2.19   6.28   10.37  13.33      3.98    6.98    1.08    1.10  4.65
Powersector(KPTCL) financingrequirement(5a)         8.21  13.00  18.08  22.01     23.60   26.60    20.37  16.47  13.93
Budgetary supportto KPTCL (5b)                      6.02   6.72   7.71   8.68     19.62    19.62   19.29  15.38   9.28
Consolidated deficit (6=3+4+5)                       24.94  40.93  63.26   71.01     73.24   74.32   70.55  68.87  56.38
GoKdebtstock(7=7a+7b)                               119.46 145.75 182.92 227.84     289.41  285.00  345.77 406.18 450.06
Onbudgetdebtstock(7a)                              104.47  124.65 151.47 180.87   220.83  221.59   270.27 325.16 372.41
Offbudgetdebtstock(7b)                              14.99  21.10  31.45  46.96     68.58   63.41    75.50  81.02  77.65
KPTCL debt stock (8)                                                       39.16     43.14   46.14   44.22  47.24  48.87
Consolidated debt stock (7+8)                                             267.00    332.55  331.14  389.98 453.42 498.92
Memo Items
Non-power deficit (3+4-5b)                            16.7   27.9   45.2   49.0       49.6    47.8    50.2   52.4   42.4
Consolidated borrowing excl.non-PF public accounts (6-3b)  24.9  35.2  57.6  63.1     69.5    70.7    68.5   68.9   56.4
Revenue deficit
Budget                                               2.7   12.0   27.2   23.4       33.0    37.2    37.6   32.0    18.0
Consolidated (with power sector)                    -1.5   11.5   29.1   29.8       28.6    37.2    31.6   22.1    8.7
Primary deflcit
Budget(&off-budgetborrowing)                         7.4   16.1   28.8    28.9      34.0    32.2    26.3   17.9   -4.7
Consolidated (with powersector)                      5.7   18.3   34.7    37.5      34.6    35.8    21.6   12.6   -6.8
Ratios (/)
Revenue deficit/revenue receipts
Budget                                             2.7%  11.1%   21.9%  16.4%     19.0%   23.5%   20.9%   15.9%  7.9%
Consolidated (with power sector)                   -1.1%   8.3%  18.2%  16.6%     13.0%    18.4%   13.3%   8.2%   2.8%
Interest/revenue receipts
Budget(& off-budgetborrowing)                      15.0%  17.2%  19.4%  20.1%     20.3%   22.1%    24.0%  24.8%  24.7%
Consolidated (with power sector)                   14.8%  16.4%  17.9%  18.6%     17.5%    19.1%   20.5%  20.8%  20.4%
Debt/revenue receipts
Budget(& off-budget borrowing)                     117%   135%    147%   160%      167%    180%     192%  202%    197%
Consolidated (with power sector)                                         148%      151%    164%     163%   167%   161%
GSDP growth                                                 10.0%  22.7%   9.8%     14.5%    5.5%    11.8%  12.9%  12.9%



Annex C
Page 2 of 2
Annex C: Government of Karnataka Fiscal Trends
(%GSDP)                                               1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01    2001-02   2001-02   2002-03 2003-04 2004-05
MTFP
Actuals                target   Estimate          Projections
Revenue (1)                                            14.3%   12.3%   12.9%   13.5%       14.7%     14.3%     14.6%   14.5%  14.5%
Own Revenue                                           10.2%    9.1%   9.2%    9.6%       10.3%     10.2%     10.3%   10.2%   10.4%
Tax                                                  8.9%    7.9%    8.1%    8.6%        9.2%     9.1%       9.2%   9.2%    9.4%
Non- Tax                                             1.2%    1.2%    1.2%    1.0%       1.1%      1.1%      1.0%    1.0%    1.0%
Central Resources                                     4.1%    3.2%    3.7%    3.9%        4.4%     4.1%       4.3%   4.3%    4.2%
Shared Taxes                                        3.0%    2.2%    2.2%    2.4%        2.6%     2.3%       2.3%   2.3%    2.3%
Grants                                              1.1%    1.0%    1.5%    1.5%        1.8%      1.8%      2.0%   2.0%    1.9%
Expenditure (2)                                         16.3%  15.5%   17.3%   17.5%       19.0%     18.9%     19.3%   18.9%   18.1%
Revenue                                               14.6%   13.7%   15.7%   15.7%      17.5%     17.6%      17.6%  16.8%   15.7%
Capital                                                1.7%    1.9%    1.6%    1.8%        1.6%     1.3%       1.6%   2.2%    2.4%
Memo: interest                                          2.1%    2.1%    2.5%    2.7%        3.0%      3.2%      3.5%    3.6%   3.6%
Fiscal Deficit (32-1)                                   2.0%    3.2%    4.4%    4.0%        4.3%      4.6%      4.7%    4.5%    3.5%
Borrowing excl. non-PF public accounts (3a)           1.3%    2.6%    3.9%   3.2%        4.0%      4.3%      4.5%    4.5%    3.5%
Borrowing from non-PF public accounts (3b)            0.8%    0.6%    0.6%   0.7%        0.3%      0.3%      0.2%    0.0%    0.0%
NetOffBudgetBorrowing(4=4a4b)                            1.1%   0.7%    1.1%    1.5%        1.5%      1.4%      1.0%    0.4%  -0.2%
Gross off-budget borrowing (4a)                        1.1%   0.7%    1.1%    1.5%        1.6%      1.5%      1.2%    0.9%   0.4%
Principal repayments (4b)                             0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%        0.1%      0.1%      0.2%    0.5%   0.6%
Power sector (KPTCL) borrowing (5=Sa-5b)                0.3%    0.7%    1.1%    1.3%        0.3%      0.6%      0.1%    0.1%    0.3%
Power sector (KPTCL) financing requirement (5a-l+ii+fii))  1.1%  1.5%  1.9%   2.1%       2.0%      2.4%       1.7%   1.2%    0.9%
Budgetary upportto KPTCL(5b)                          0.8%    0.8%   0.8%    0.8%         1.7%     1.8%       1.6%   1.1%    0.6%
Consolidated deficit (6=3+4+5)                          3.5%    4.7%    6.6%    6.7%        6.2%      6.7%      5.7%    4.9%    3.6%
GoK debt stock (7=7a+7b)                                16.7%  16.6%   19.0%   21.6%       24.5%     25.6%     28.0%   29.2%   28.6%
Onbudgetdebtstock(7a)                                 14.6%   14.2%   15.7%   17.1%       18.7%    19.9%     21.9%   23.4%   23.7%
Offbudget debt stock (7b)                              2.1%    2.4%    3.3%    4.4%       5.8%      5.7%       6.1%   5.8%    4.9%
KPTCLdebtstock(8)                                       0.00%   0.0%    0.0%    3.7%        3.7%      4.1%      3.6%    3.4%    3.1%
Consolidated debt stock (7+8)                           0.0%    0.0%    0.0%   25.3%       28.2%     29.7%     31.6%   32.6%   31.8%
Memo Items
Non-power deficit (3+4-5b)                              2.3%    3.2%    4.7%    4.6%        4.2%      4.3%      4.1%    3.8%    2.7%
Consolidated borrowing excl.non-PF public accounts (6-3b)  3.5%  4.0%   6.0%    6.0%        5.9%      6.3%      5.6%    4.9%    3.6%
Revenue deficit
Budget                                                0.4%    1.4%    2.8%    2.2%        2.8%      3.3%      3.0%    2.3%    1.1%
Consolidated (with power sector)                     -0.2%    1.3%    3.0%    2.8%        2.4%      3.3%      2.6%    1.6%    0.6%
Primary deficit
Budget(&off-budgetborrowing)                          1.0%    1.8%    3.0%    2.7%        2.9%      2.9%      2.1%    1.3%   -0.3%
Consolidated (with power sector)                      0.8%    2.1%    3.6%    3.6%        2.9%      3.2%      1.8%    0.9%   -0.4%



Annex D: Karnataka Power Sector Finances
1997/98 1998/991999/00 2000/01     2001/02       2002/03 2003/04 2004/05
Rs billion                                                              Un-      FRP
Actuals        audited   target Estimate         Projections
(A) Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL)
EBITDA (Earnings before interest and dep'n)         2.10  -2.19  -5.07  -10.31   -11.87  -16.14    -7.54    0.84    6.66
Financing Requirement                               8.21  13.00  18.08  22.01     23.60   26.60    20.37   16.47    13.93
(B) Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL)
EBITDA(Eamingsbefore interest and dep'n)            5.50   5.72  6.85    3.89      8.24    7.80    10.17   11.03   10.78
Financing Requirement                              -3.56  -4.61  3.05    -2.70     0.25    0.00     0.87    4.55    5.44
(C) Sectoral Finances (KPTCL and KPCL)
EBITDA(Eamingsbeforeinterestanddep'n)               7.11   3.69  2.16    -3.09    -3.79   -8.06     0.92    9.94    15.16
Financing Requirement                              12.26  17.45  14.65  21.37     23.51   26.51    18.05   11.74    9.70
Notes: FRP figures are from the GoK Financial Restructuring Plan for the power sector (April 2001)
KPTCL is responsible for transmission and distribution; KPCL is a generation company; both are state owned.



Annex E
Page 1 of 7
Statistical Annex
India at a Glance                                                           2t14102
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          South     Low-
India     Asia   income      Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                  1,015.9     1,355    2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  450       460      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   454.8      617     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                      1.8       1.9      1.9
Labor force (Y.)                                     2.3      2.4       2.4     GNI         ,                  Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                           capea                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  35
Urban population (% of total population)             28        28       32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     63        63       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             71        74       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           45        47        ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  88       87       76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                  43        45       38
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)  100     100       96      -India            Low-income group
Male                                              109       110      102
Female                                             90        90       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratlos*
GDP (US$ billions)                        182.9    316.9     445.2    457.0
Gross domestic investmentGDP               20.9     25.2      24.3     24.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP           6.1      7.3      12.0     14.0                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 17.3     22.5      21.2     21.4
Gross national savings/GDP                 18.9     22.0      23.2     23.4
Current account balance/GDP                -1.9     -3.2      -1.1     -0.6     Domestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GDP                       0.3      1.2       0.8      0.8     savIngs
Total debt/GDP                             11.3     26.4      22.0     22.0     savigs
Total debt service/exports                  9.8     32.4      15.3     12.7
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..       ..      15.5
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..       ..      91.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                5.8      6.0      7.1       3.9      5.4      -     India       Low-income group
GOP per capita      .3.5                    4.1      5.2      2.0       3.8
Exports of goods and services      5.9     11.7      6.0       5.0      7.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000     Growth of lnvesbaent and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                      30
Agriculture                                38.6     31.3      26.2     24.9
Industry                                   24.2     27.6      26.0     26.9     15_
Manufacturing                             16.3    17.2      15.2      15.8
Services                                   37.2     41.1     47.8      48.2
7 98   95    00
Private consumption                        72.7     65.9      65.9     65.4    | s
General government consumption             10.0     11.6      12.9     13.2                   GD1          GDP
Imports of goods and services               9.7      9.9     15.1      16.6
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 3.1      3.0       1.3     -0.2    40
Industry                                    6.9      6.4      4.9       6.3    30
Manufacturing                             7.4      7.0       4.2      6.7     20
Services                                    7.0      8.0      9.5       4.8    10
Private consumption                         5.8      4.8       2.8      4.2     o            |    7          9
General government consumption              4.2      6.9      12.0      6.5   -10                           99    O
Gross domestic investment                   6.6      7.9      15.7      2.0                 Exports   -    Imports
Imports of goods and services               5.9      9.5      6.0       5.0
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex E
Page 2 of 7
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                   15
Consumer prices                              ..    12.8      3.4      3.8    10
Implicit GDP deflator                     11.6     10.4      3.5      4.1
Government finance
(% of GDP, Includes current grants)                                            -
Current revenue                             ..      ..      18.9     19.9           95    96    97   09    99    00
Current budget balance                      ..      ..      -4.4     -4.2                 GDP deflator  -OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     ..      ..     -10.6    -10.6
t
TRADE
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      8,501   18,477   37,542   44,894    0sooo
Tea                                        ..    535      1,183    1,394    600
Iron                                       ..    970       916     1,158     000
Manufactures                            5,105  12,996    29,714   34,511    45,000
Total imports (ci)                      15,862   27,914   55,383   59,264      000
Food                                    1,348    557      2.417    1.432          _         _        _
Fuel and energy                         6,669   6,028    12.611   15.650    15,000
Capital goods                           2,416   5,836     8,965    8,785       0 -     9        9
Export pnce index (1995=100)                28      51       116      122
Import price index (1995=100)               27      46       150      162                 U Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                  105     109        77       75
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(us$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services           11,249  23,028    53,251   63,764     0
Imports of goods and services           17,821  31,485    67,028   75,656
Resource balance                         -6,572  -8,457  -13,777   -11,892
Net income                                 325   -3,753   -3,559    -3,821
Net current transfers                    2,693   2,068    12,256   12,798     1I
Current account balance                  -3,554  -10,142  -5,080    -2,915
Financing items (net)                    2,564    7.650   11,482    8,771
Changes in net reserves                    990   2,492    -6,402    -5,856   -2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)   6,823   5,834    38,036   42,281
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           7.9     17.9     43.3     45.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    20,695   83,717   98,158  100,367
IBRD                                     827   7,685     7,816    7.063                 G: 3,484 A 7,063
IDA                                    5,142   13,312   18,930   20,804
Total debt service                       1,426   8,191    10,108    9,862                                 B: 28
IBRD                                     137    1,087    1,389    1,421                                 s:20,804
IDA                                       50     211       469      554
Composition of net resource flows                                             F: 40,376
Official grants                          750     461       382      336
Official creditors                       908    2,334    1,068      589                                 D: 4,541
Private creditors                        789    1,606   -1,658    4,340
Foreign direct Investment                  .      97     2,093    1,828
Portfblioequity                           ..       6     3,024    2,760                           E 24,119
World Bank program
Commitments                            2,503   2,186       817    2,064     A- IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            826    1,981    1,460    1,742     B - IDA  D - Other mulUlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                      86     586     1,228    1,392     C - IMF                   G - Short-tern,
Net flows                                739    1,395      232      350
Interest payments                        101     712       630      583
Net transfers                            639     683      -398     -233
Development Economics                                                                                       2V12/02



Annex E
Page 3 of 7
India Social Indicators
Latest single year          Same region/income group
South         Low-
1970-75     1980-85     1994400            Asia      Income
POPULATION
Total population,mid-year(millions)          613.5       765.1     1,015.9          1,354.7      2,458.7
Growth rate (% annual average for period)    2.3         2.1         1.8             1.9          1.9
Urban populalon (% of population)             21.3        24.3        28.4            28.4         31.9
Total fertility rate (births per woman)        5.3         4.4         3.1             3.4          3.7
POVERTY
(% of populabon)
National headcourt index                        ..          ..        35.0
Urban headamunt index                         ..          ..        30.5
Rural headcountindex                          ..          ..        36.7
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                           190        290         450              460          420
Consumer price index(1995=100)                  ..         40         142              136          142
Food prce index(1995=100)                                  38         134
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                      ..          ..        37.8
Lowest quintile 01o of income orconsumption)   5.9                     8.1
Highest quintile (0/ of income or consumption)  49.4        ..        46.1
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Heath (% of GDP)                              ..          ..         0.8             0.9          1.2
Educaton (% of GNI)                          2.7         3.5         3.2             3.1          3.3
Social security and weHfare (% of GDP)
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                        81          96         100              100           96
Male                                       96         111         109              110          102
Female                                     64          80          90               90           86
Access to an Improved water source
(% of populabon)
Total                                         ..         54          88               87           76
Urban                                       ..         80          92               92           88
Rural                                       ..         47          86               85           70
Immunization rate
(% under 12months)
Measles                                       ..          1          60               63           64
DPT                                           ..         41          78               75           70
Child malnutrition (V/o under 5 years)                                 45               47
Life expecbancy at birth
(years)
Total                                        52          57          63               63           59
Male                                       52          57          62               62           58
Female                                     51          57          64               63           60
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)           130          97          71               74           77
Under 5 (per thousand live births)          206         177          90               99          116
Adult (1549)
Male (per 1,000population)                324         261         218              223          288
Female (per 1,000 populaton)              353         279         206              212          258
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)             ..          ..        440
Births attended by skilled health staff (%/6)    ,         30          49               49
CAS Annex B5. This table was produced from the CMU LDB system.                                   0212,02
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Gross enrolment ratios exceeding 100 indicatediscrepandes
between the estimates of school-age popubtion and reported enrollment data.



Annex E
Paze 4 of 7
India - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate            Projected
Indicator              1997    1998    1999    2000    2001     2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producte               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                          28.0    27.7    26.2    24.9    24.5     23.7    23.1    22.3
Industry                             27.1    26.5    26.0    26.9    27.1     27.0    27.0    27.0
Services                             44.9    45.8    47.8    48.2    48.4     49.3    49.9    50.7
Total Consumption                      80.5    80.0    78.8    78.6    78.7    78.9    77.9    78.0
Gross domestic fixed investment        21.7    21.4    21.6    21.9    23.3    23.2    24.2    24.1
Government investment                 6.4     6.3     6.4     6.8     6.5      6.7     6.7     6.7
Private investment                   15.4    15.1    15.2    15.1     16.7    16.5    17.5    17.4
Exports (GNFS)b                        11.0    11.5    12.0    14.0    13.6    13.4    13.9     14.2
Imports (GNFS)                         14.5    14.1    15.1    16.6    16.5    16.5    16.9     17.2
Gross domestic savings                 19.5    20.0    21.2    21.4    21.3    21.1    22.1    22.0
Gross national savings'               21.5     21.6    23.2    23.4    26.0    25.6    26.7    26.1
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product              409718  414064  445233  456990   477555  515408  557893  606742
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)     420     420     440     450      459     488     520     558
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  4.4  6.0     7.1     3.9      4.5     5.5     5.5     6.0
Gross Domestic Income                 5.2     4.9     6.2     4.8      5.1     6.0     5.7     6.2
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  2.6  4.1     5.2     2.0     2.7      3.8     4.0     4.6
Total consumption                     1.8    -0.1     2.4     2.7    -13.6     5.0     1.8     5.0
Private consumption                   1.6    -2.1     1.0     2.4    -16.9     6.0     1.8     5.9
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                     45109   47484   53251   63764    65025   69242   77288   86022
Merchandise FOB                   35680   34298   37542   44894    44835   47093   52210   57817
Imports (GNFS)b                    59297    58565   67028   75656   78915   84888    94076  104344
Merchandise FOB                   51187   47544   55383   59264    61234   65121   71989   79656
Resource balance                   -14188  -11081  -13777   -11892  -13890  -15646  -16788  -18322
Netcurrenttransfers                 11830   10280   12256    12798   13396   13786   15520   15237
Current account balance             -5879   -4345   -5080   -2915    -3493   4841    -5113   -7166
Net private foreign direct investment  3557  2462    2093     1828    3300    3000    5500    6000
Long-term loans (net)                1816    5918    4781    8133     2680    3012    -960    2605
Official                            -406     979    1068     589     1097     643     254     172
Private                             2222    4939    3713    7544     1583    2369   -1215    2434
Other capital (net incl. errors &ommissions)  5017  187  4608  -1190  3450    3710    3941    4372
Change in reservesd                 -4511   -4222   -6402   -5856    -5937   -4881   -3367   -5811
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)           -3.5     -2.7    -3.1    -2.6    -2.9    -3.0     -3.0    -3.0
Real annual growth rates ( YR93 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)             2.5      2.8    16.7    20.9     1.1     4.0      9.7     9.2
Manufactures                         6.2      1.9    19.2    24.9     1.5     2.8     10.2     9.0
Merchandise imports (CIF)             11.3    3.1     12.7    10.6     5.4     9.5     12.8    10.6
(Continued)



Annex E
Paze 5 of 7
India - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1997    1998     1999    2000    2001     2002    2003     2004
Public fmance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                       19.8    19.1     18.9    19.9    20.3     21.1    21.5     22.1
Current expenditures                   22.6    23.8     23.4    24.1    23.9     23.9    23.8     23.7
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  -2.8  -4.7  -4.4    -4.2     -3.6    -2.8     -2.3    -1.6
Capital expenditure                     7.8     8.8      6.2     6.4      7.0     7.2     7.2      7.2
Foreign financing                       0.4     0.3      0.8     0.4     0.3      0.3     -0.3     0.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                 53.9    56.2     55.7    59.5    60.1     60.6    61.7     63.2
GrowthofM2(%)                          17.0    19.2      9.9    15.6     11.8    15.0    15.0     15.0
Private sector credit growth/          57.6    52.2     25.7    61.9    37.3     56.0    61.5     63.7
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR93 =100)
Merchandise export price index        103.7    96.9     90.9    90.0     88.9    89.8    90.7     92.0
Merchandiseimportpriceindex           130.4   117.5    121.4   117.5    115.1   111.8    109.6   109.6
Merchandise tenns of trade index       79.5    82.5     74.9    76.6     77.2    80.3     82.8    83.9
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)'          76.6    72.4     71.0    75.5       ..      ..
Consumer price index (% change)         7.2    12.7      3.4     3.8      5.9     7.7     7.5      6.3
GDP deflator (% change)                 7.0     7.9      3.5     4.1      6.0     8.0      7.0     6.0
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated non-financial public sector.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex E
Page 6 of 7
India - Key Exposure Indicators
Estimate             Projected
Indicator             1997    1998    1999     2000    2001    2002     2003    2004
Total debt outstanding and         94320   97639    98158  100367  102936   105782  104822   107427
disbursed (TDO) (USSm)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a            850    3319      519    2209    2568     2847    -960     2605
Total debt service (TDS)            4864    5121     3782    3741    3979     3691    4969     5773
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                          164.4   166.3    148.2   129.1    129.8   126.1    111.4   103.9
TDO/GDP                            23.0    23.6     22.0    22.0    21.6     20.5     18.8    17.7
TDS/XGS                             8.5     8.7      5.7     4.8     5.0      4.4     5.3      5.6
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                  12.2    12.5     16.4    15.9     15.7    14.6     10.7    16.2
Preferred creditor DS/public       24.0    23.6     30.0    32.1    29.6     28.1    20.6     31.5
DS (%)'
IBRD DS/XGS                         2.5     2.3     2.1      1.8      1.6     1.6      1.5     1.3
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                  8138    7990    7816     7062    7137     7305    7609     8228
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)         7.6     7.2      6.5     5.8     5.9      5.8     6.0      6.6
IDA TDO (US$m)'                  17912    18562   18930    18886   19899   20570    20817   20814
IFC (US$m)                         855.4    801.7   686.3   677.7       ..
Loans                             662.8   569.1    436.0   411.9      ..
Equity and quasi-equity /c        192.6   232.6    250.3   265.8      ..       ..
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)              9.6     9.6       ..      ..       ..      ..
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex E
Page 7 of 7
Evolution of the Public Sector Deficit', 1990-02 (% of GDP at Market Prices)
90-91  91-92  92-93  93-94  94-95 95-96   96-97  97-98  98-99  99-00  00-01 01-02
Prov.   BE
Actuals
Central Government
Fiscal Deficit2                               6.6    5.2    5.1    6.4    5.3    4.3    4.1    4.9   6.7     5.4    5.4   5.3
PrimaryDeficit3                               2.8    1.1    0.9    2.1     1.0   0.1   -0.2    0.6    2.3    0.8    0.9   0.7
Outstanding Debt                             61.6   65.4   64.2   65.0    62.2  59.2   56.4   58.1   57.6   58.7   59.6   59.7
Interest Payments/ Revenue                   39.1   40.2   41.9   48.7    48.4  45.4   47.1   49.0   52.1   49.7   51.0  48.5
State Government
Fiscal Deficit                                3.2    2.8    2.8    2.5     2.6   2.6    2.7    2.7    4.2    4.6    4.3    3.8
Primary Deficit                               1.6    1.1    1.0    0.6     0.7   0.8    0.9    0.7    2.1    2.3     1.7   1.2
Outstanding Debt                             19.4   19.3   19.0   18.6    18.2  17.9   17.8   18.5   19.4   21.5   23.2   24.4
InterestPayments/Revenue                     13.0   13.6   14.4   15.0    15.7  16.0   16.7   17.9   20.5   21.1   22.5   23.1
General Government
Fiscal Deficit                                9.3    7.3    7.3    8.3     7.5   6.5    6.4    7.1    9.2    9.2    9.2    8.9
Primary Deficit                               4.9    2.6    2.4    3.3     2.4   1.6    1.3    1.9    3.9    3.5    3.6    3.0
Outstanding Debt                             67.9   71.9   70.9   71.8    68.9  66.0   63.3   65.2   65.4   68.1   70.5   71.2
Interest Payments/Revenue                    21.5   22.1   23.2   25.1    25.8  25.2   26.5   27.3   30.5   29.7   29.9  30.1
Consolidated Non-Financial Public Sector Deficit5   11.2    9.4    9.2   10.4     9.0   8.1    8.7    8.0    9.8   10.8   10.3   10.1
Notes: For States 1999-00 = RE; 2000-01= BE; 2001-02= Estimate
1: All definitions pertain to World Bank definitions unless otherwise specified.
2: Fiscal Deficit (Govt.of India new defn.) excluding disinvestment from revenues.
3. : Fiscal deficit minus interest payments
4: General Govt. comprises Central (excl. divestment revenues), States Governments and excludes net lending from Center to States
5. : Consolidated Public Sector includes General govemment, oil pool balance and market financed central public enterprise deficit (on-lending
from central govermment to central public enterprises is netted out)
Source: Budget Documents, RBI State Bulletins, RBI Annual Report 1998-99, Staff Estimates, IMF, RBI Annual Report 2000-01



IBRD 31 451
74-                                      76'1                                      780
INDIA                              . 
-18      KARNATAKA             STATEj                    --    ia*                           1
\          /  r~~~~~~:, Hyderabad
(;.~~~C' a-*+)fiwI.l. 
.J   ' r  4   t    <   S - .               - ~~~~~~~~NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
_ ./.t,<. /-L}  . .    d      .OS~~agar\              STATE ROADS
S 0 0 ( g ( , a / O~~~~~~~~~~~ RAILROADS
, B   ,9_t_   >r    * . >/~~~~~~~ Raicu             *  DISTRICT CAPITALS
g 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                               .r . s ..........LD9          . - (3STATE CAPITAL
2 4 - o-, - J noe]'3')1[ L '1.|!E\t-g . _ | --DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
p */ c --t - t>n, ><, tr 1 Mgul <' ' ' ~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
16'I.Et.. Ee3.. ylt- >_n2 ..............-,r . 
\ . 5 Jo ,hs|- tg | ' \ - - d r   /. 
T:f~  ~~  0,>,l,d               +               2\    I                P  1-J F.:X ...  . 
R~ ~~~~~-                     r       ,    \    ...'-,i;;'|-le
X .\__ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  'y.I c, r  1j
\ - - v - v-z E , 9 3w1G,. ) z -.     o , r o-                    E  : T-,f Iv
_7                                       H   r  1 . ,<p
>/t_) _ _ - -- t\ #t ()/ \ S S ; t~~~~~~~MAY200



