Report No. PID10892
Project Name                     India-Second Karnataka Economic ...
Restructuring Loan/Credit
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project                          INPE59149
Borrower                         GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Beneficiaries                    State of Karnataka
Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF KARNATAKA
Mr. S.C. Khuntia
Secretary, Project Monitoring Unit
Phone 91-80-225 7336
Fax 91-80-225 3731
Date PID Prepared                January 22, 2002
Appraisal Mission                January 18, 2002
Board Date                       March 14, 2002 (tentative)
1.      Country and Sector Background
Economic growth has slowed in India during 2001, and the country
is expected to register growth of 4-5w in the fiscal year
2001/02, good by global standards, but below the average annual
growth rate of 6t achieved over the last decade. Causes for the
slowdown in growth include the global slowdown, negative
investor sentiment due to the slow pace of reforms at the
national level, weak agricultural demand on the back of
successive poor agricultural seasons, and the oil price rises
last year. The slowdown in growth has hurt India's fiscal
position. Central government's tax revenues for the first eight
months of 2001/02 were 3t below the figure for the first eight
months of last fiscal year.   Overall, at about 10t of GDP, the
size of the combined central and state government deficit is a
matter of significant concern. However, India's macroeconomic
vulnerability continues to be contained by a strong external
position, a largely closed capital account, low and declining
(on a percentage basis) external debt, and low inflation.
There is a consensus that many of the reforms required to
accelerate India's growth and reduce poverty need to be
implemented by the states. These include not only fiscal reforms
to address resource constraints which are increasingly
circumscribing the states' developmental role, but also power
sector reforms to address a fundamental source of fiscal
pressure and a constraint on growth, and governance reforms to
make the government smaller, more accountable and effective in
the delivery of services. The momentum for reforms is definitely
growing at the state level as an increasing number of states
embrace fiscal, governance and sectoral reforms.
State of Karnataka
Karnataka is a state of some 53 million in the south of India.
Karnataka has a number of strengths, including a good growth



record (though the recent India-wide economic slow down has also
affected Karnataka), a fiscal position that has been stronger
than that of many states, a capable bureaucracy, and strong
political leadership and stability. But Karnataka is still a
relatively poor state, with per capita income (at $410) around
the national average. Rural poverty, while declining in the
state over the mid-nineties, is still above the all-India
average. Karnataka's performance with respect to key social
indicators has been better than the rest of the country.
Statewide figures mask significant disparities: parts of
Karnataka are quite developed; others, especially in the north,
are backward. Karnataka is India's second most arid state:
drinking water is scarce, and agriculture is mostly unirrigated.
Karnataka's Comprehensive Reform Program
The Government of Karnataka (GoK) has launched a comprehensive
reform program with focus on the "eradication of poverty through
economic growth tempered with equity." This vision has been
followed by the development of a comprehensive reform program
based on a consultative process in partnership with the private
sector and other stakeholders.
Sectoral reforms are being implemented in the power, roads,
water, education, health and agriculture sectors. The power
reforms are particularly important given the sector's
significance for both growth and fiscal sustainability. Here,
the Government's reform strategy is to privatize the power
distribution, promote retail and bulk supply competition, and
improve the finances and efficiency of the state's power
utilities.
Karnataka has also embarked on a major program of fiscal and
governance reform, and has quickly established itself as a
leader in these areas in India, with pioneering and wide-ranging
measures. GoK's overall strategy is two-pronged: (a) to
rationalize and refocus the role of the state; and (b) to
enhance the effectiveness, transparency and accountability of
the state in carrying out its more focused role. Karnataka's
fiscal and governance reforms consist of: (a) fiscal and public
expenditure management reforms; (b) administrative reforms; (c)
reforms to promote private sector development; and (d) poverty
monitoring and statistical strengthening.
2.      Project's Objectives and Description
The proposed Second Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit
(KERL2) is the second in a series of adjustment operations to
the state to support GoK's efforts in developing and
implementing multi-year reforms that are designed to stabilize
the fiscal situation, improve governance, and foster an enabling
environment for structural reforms and sectoral investments. The
first adjustment operation KERL1 was approved by the Bank's
Board of Directors on June 21, 2001.
The proposed KERL2 would support GoK's comprehensive set of
reforms in the following areas. First, the fiscal and public
expenditure reforms of the Government of Karnataka include the
development and institutionalization of a multi-year fiscal
framework, measures to promote fiscal transparency, tax and
expenditure policy reforms, public expenditure management
reforms, improvements in financial accountability, and
-2 -



procurement reforms, with the objectives of ensuring
sustainability, creating additional fiscal space over the medium
term for high priority areas of development, and promoting more
efficient and transparent management of the government's
financial resources. Second, the administrative reforms focus on
civil service reforms, freedom of information, service agency
reforms, measures to reduce corruption, decentralization, and e-
governance, with the objectives of improving the efficiency and
transparency by which government transacts its business and
delivers services. Third, the private sector development
component focuses on improving the business environment through
deregulation and privatization/closure of public enterprises.
Finally, the poverty monitoring and statistical strengthening
component enables the state to better track the impact of its
services, policies and reforms on poverty and social indicators,
and improve program evaluation and state output estimation.
While KERL1 supported the development of key policy,
institutional and legal frameworks for the medium-term reform
program, as well as key initial reform steps, KERL2 supports the
implementation of further measures to advance the Government's
reform program. In the course of 2001/02, the Government of
Karnataka has taken a number of important steps to significantly
advance its reform agenda, and has confirmed its reputation as
one of India's leading reforming states. Some of the key reforms
and achievements of the Government in 2001/02 include: an
improved fiscal position; a steep reduction in premature
transfers of civil servants, leading to greater stability and
efficiency; the closure/sale of a number of public enterprises
under the state's public sector restructuring policy; and
measures to attract greater investment to the state under
Karnataka's business deregulation policy.
3.      Rationale for Bank's Involvement
A focus on reforming states is an important part of the India
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The most recent CAS (June,
2001) documented the substantial progress being made in the
implementation of this strategy. The proposed operation has been
structured to support growth-oriented fiscal adjustment and
structural reforms, with a focus on governance. It is justified
on the basis of the state's need for financial assistance to
proceed with a growth-oriented stabilization and structural
reform program. The state-level reforms will contribute to the
overall macroeconomic stability in India and complement the
reforms initiated by the central government. In this context,
external financial and technical assistance, which can be
targeted at individual states, can significantly strengthen the
incentives for reforms and complement the efforts by the
Government of India.
The Bank's backing for the reform program in Karnataka helps
provide support for implementation based on the lessons of
international experience. Success with respect to the
Government's fiscal and governance reform program will improve
the enabling environment for Bank-supported (and other) sectoral
investments in priority social and infrastructure spending such
as roads, rural water and sanitation supply, and education.
The additional financing which the Bank can provide will help
-3 -



ensure that high-priority expenditures are protected and
expanded rather than crowded-out at a time of fiscal stress. It
also provides financial backing for the state's reform program,
and in particular helps fill the financing gap which arises from
funding the power sector financing requirement on budget, an
important component of the state's power sector reforms.
This proposed operation is part of a large program of Bank
support to the Government of Karnataka with a focus on
infrastructure development and rural poverty alleviation.
4.      Financing
Total                US$100 million equivalent.
IBRD                US$50 million.
IDA                 US$50 million equivalent.
5.      Implementation Arrangements
The overall program is coordinated by the Chief Secretary, with
secretariat support provided by the Project Monitoring Unit. The
nodal agency for the fiscal and public expenditure management
reforms is the Finance Department. Administrative reforms are
the responsibility of the Departments of Personnel and
Administrative Reform - a number of other departments are also
important in this regard and overall coordination for this
component will be provided by the Additional Chief Secretary.
Under the private sector development component, business
deregulation is the responsibility of the Department of Commerce
and Industry, while the Karnataka State Bureau of Public
Enterprises is the nodal agency for public enterprise reforms.
Finally, the Planning Department is responsible for the poverty
monitoring and statistical strengthening component.
6.      Sustainability and Poverty Impact
Karnataka's comprehensive reforms are initiated by a reform-
minded government and developed through active consultations
with stakeholders. Karnataka's strengths include a capable
bureaucracy, traditionally strong fiscal position, and good
growth potential. A credible track-record in reforms has been
established by the Government of Karnataka. These strengths
would mitigate risks associated with the reforms. Karnataka
continues to implement many difficult reforms, and thereby helps
to generate competition and reform momentum across Indian
states.
Impact on the poor. Karnataka has a good track record of
commitment to reduce poverty and improve human development.
This is reflected in substantial reduction in both rural and
urban poverty as well as significant improvements in basic
social indicators relating to education and health.
Nevertheless, there is still a major unfinished agenda. Looking
to the future, with GSDP per capita of about $410, broad-based
and sustained economic growth remains key to poverty reduction
in Karnataka. The Government's fiscal and governance reform
programs will have positive impact on poverty reduction through
fostering an enabling environment for broad-based growth:
Business deregulation will improve the investment climate,
especially for small and medium enterprises (SMEs), with over-
regulation hurting SMEs disproportionately.
Governance reforms seek to improve the delivery of public
- 4 -



services through such as citizen charters and user surveys
(e.g., the computerization of 12 million farmers' land records
completed to date has reduced service delivery from months to
minutes, cutting corruption and harassment).
Fiscal reforms will enable a greater share of resources on
poverty reduction related expenditures (e.g., primary
education, health, and rural water supply) and help expand
infrastructure provision, much needed for sustained growth.
Improving poverty monitoring (e.g., through the Poverty and
Human Development Monitoring System) will help the Government
better track poverty and adjust policies and programs
accordingly.
Negative impacts on displaced workers through the public
enterprise reforms are being mitigated by severance packages.
GoK is also strengthening its training and counseling program
for displaced workers with the hiring of a Safety Net Advisor.
Karnataka's broader reform program is also pro-poor. Special
attention is being paid to sectoral reforms in areas of great
importance to the rural poor, in particular education, and rural
water supply. Power reforms are important to prevent the fiscal
burden of the power sector leading to a debt trap and crowding
out priority spending in areas of importance to the poor such as
elementary education and health.
7.      Environment Aspects
No major environmental impact is expected from the state's
fiscal and governance reform program. Environmental
considerations of the private sector development component,
including public enterprise reform and business deregulation,
have been appropriately incorporated. GoK is rationalizing the
clearance process for industries and the inspection regime to
improve both transparency and compliance. To ensure
environmental due diligence in the public enterprise reform
program, GoK has appointed the Indian Institute of Science
(IISc) to undertake an environmental screening of all 17 Public
Enterprises in Phase 1 and recommend cases where a detailed
environmental audit is required. All screening reports have
been completed.
8.      Contact Points:
Task Team Leaders:
Lili Liu
The World Bank
1818 H Street
Washington DC 20433
Tel: 202 473 7694
Lili Liu
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-7694
Fax: (202) 522-3408
Stephen Howes
70 Lodi Estate
- 5-



New Delhi 110 003
Telephone: (91) 11 461 7241
Fax (91) 11 461 9393
9. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 2, 2002
- 6 -



