Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3617 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Karnataka Economic Restructuring Program II)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 15 , 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3617 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 15 , 2002, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated February 
19, 2002, attaching a letter from the State of Karnataka (Karnataka) describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to improve and strengthen the fiscal framework and 
public institutions of Karnataka (hereinafter called the Program), declaring Karnataka’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program and the Borrower’s support thereto, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
Karnataka has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement (the Project Agreement) to the satisfaction of the Association 
and the Borrower and has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the 
Association and the Borrower;
(C)
the Program will be carried out by Karnataka with the assistance of the Borrower 
and, the Borrower will make the local currency equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement available to Karnataka, as set forth in this Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance in support of the Program, and by an 
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the 
Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount of fifty million 
dollars ($50,000,000); and
(E)
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in one tranche as 
hereinafter provided, and to Karnataka as provided in the Project Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  3
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(b)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and of Karnataka beginning 
on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year;
(c)
“Karnataka” means the State of Karnataka of the Borrower, or any successor 
thereto;
(d)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, the Bank and 
Karnataka of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; and
(e)
“Rupees” and “Rs” mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to forty million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
40,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
Page  4
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower shall, promptly after the deposit of the proceeds of the Credit into 
the Deposit Account, transfer to Karnataka an amount in Rupees equivalent to the amount 
deposited in the Deposit Account as of the day of such deposit.
(d)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.  If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association:
(i)
deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said 
payment; or
(ii)
if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be credited 
to the Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: 
(i)
from the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the 
accrual 
date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and
(ii)
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
Page  5
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and 
September 15 commencing March 15, 2012 and ending September 15, 2036. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on September 15, 2021 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to 
in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
Page  6
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, shall cause Karnataka to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Karnataka therein set forth, shall take 
and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable Karnataka to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall participate with the Association and Karnataka in the 
exchange of views referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, the actions specified in the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, the performance of Karnataka’s obligations under the Project Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken by the 
Borrower after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
Page  7
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out by Karnataka.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions: (a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of 
Karnataka has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; and (b) all 
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled other than 
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by Karnataka and is legally binding upon Karnataka in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy 
Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
ECOFAIRS
953-31-66175 FINE IN
91-11-3016075
New Delhi
953-31-61430 FINE IN
For the Association
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or
202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
/s/ Subhash Garg
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Sanjay Pradhan
Acting Country Director, India
SCHEDULE
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
Page  10
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not 
containing 
tobacco substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated 
materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a Member Country of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of 
any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
Page  11
