Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3617 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4652 IN
Project Agreement
(Karnataka Economic Restructuring Program II)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF KARNATAKA
Dated March 15, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3617 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4652 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 2002, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF KARNATAKA (Karnataka), acting by its 
Governor.
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Association and the Bank have received from India (the Borrower) a 
letter dated February 19, 2002, attaching a letter from Karnataka describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to improve and strengthen the fiscal framework and public 
institutions of Karnataka (hereinafter called the Program), declaring Karnataka’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program, and the Borrower’s support thereto, and requesting assistance from 
the Association and the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
Karnataka has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in the 
Schedule to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association and the Bank;
(C)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India (the 
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 40,500,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that Karnataka agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(D)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India and the Bank, the 
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an aggregate principal amount of fifty million 
dollars ($50,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on 
condition that Karnataka agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(E)
the Program will be carried out by Karnataka with the Borrower’s assistance and 
the Borrower will make available to Karnataka the local currency equivalent of the proceeds of 
the Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agreement and of the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in the Loan Agreement; and
Page  3
WHEREAS Karnataka, in consideration of the Association entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Loan Agreement) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. Karnataka declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program and, to 
this end, shall carry out the Program with due diligence and efficiency, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Program.
Section 2.02. (a) Karnataka shall from time to time, at the request of the Association and 
the Bank, and in consultation with the Borrower, exchange views with the Association and the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Program, the actions specified in the Schedule to this 
Agreement, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, Karnataka shall furnish to the Association, 
the Bank and the Borrower for their review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Karnataka shall promptly inform the Association, the Bank and the Borrower of 
any condition, which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Program, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by Karnataka of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Section, Karnataka shall consult the Borrower and exchange views with the Association and the 
Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Karnataka shall:
Page  4
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, 
and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the 
achievement of the objective thereof; and
(c)
review with the Association, the Bank and the Borrower the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the report and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Program and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Section 2.04. (a) Karnataka shall utilize the amounts transferred to it by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) of the 
Loan Agreement for its budgetary expenditures.  Karnataka undertakes that any of such amounts 
shall not be used to finance expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association or 
the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of 
Karnataka during the procurement or execution of such contract, without Karnataka having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association and the Bank to remedy the 
situation.
(b)
If the Association or the Bank shall have determined at any time that any such 
amount shall have been used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent with 
paragraph (a) above, Karnataka shall be liable, upon request from the Association or the Bank as 
the case may be, to refund such amount to the Association or the Bank through the Borrower. 
Amounts refunded to the Association or the Bank upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for cancellation.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Karnataka shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial conditions; and
(b)
Upon the Association’s and the Bank’s request, Karnataka shall:
(i)
have the said records, accounts and financial statements audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four months after the date of the Association’s and the 
Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit 
Page  5
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association and 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.
Section 3.02. (a) Karnataka shall, no later than thirty (30) days after the receipt of the 
Rupee amounts transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development 
Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement, provide a confirmation to the 
Association and the Bank showing the date and the Rupee amounts received from the Borrower, 
and stating that such amounts have been credited to the consolidated Fund of Karnataka on that 
same date.
(b)
Upon the Association’s and the Bank’s request, Karnataka shall, no later than 
sixty (60) days after the date of such request, provide to the Association and the Bank an audit 
report by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank showing the date and 
the Rupee amounts transferred by the Borrower to Karnataka pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the Bank and 
Karnataka thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Karnataka of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Page  6
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI) 
For the Bank:
International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
202 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For Karnataka:
Chief Secretary
Government of Karnataka
Vidhana Soudha
Bangalore, 560001
Karnataka
India
Telex:
Facsimile:
845-2239 CSGK IN
91-80-2258913
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Karnataka may be taken or executed 
by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Karnataka shall designate in writing, 
and Karnataka shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Page  7
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to Karnataka, and 
so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination 
of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligation of Karnataka to consult with, and furnish information, documents, 
plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance in 
respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information to 
Karnataka shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are satisfied by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) by the 
Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant 
to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name and on 
behalf of the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Sanjay Pradhan
Acting Country Director, India
STATE OF KARNATAKA
By
/s/ Chiranjiv Singh
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement.
Page  8
Fiscal Policy and Public Expenditure Management
1.
Karnataka has taken a number of measures for carrying out a program of fiscal and 
public expenditure management reforms, including:  (a) achieving the reduction in Fiscal Year 
2000-2001 of its budgetary fiscal deficit to no more than 4.0 percent of the estimated Gross State 
Domestic Product (GSDP); (b) introducing monthly monitoring of the consolidated fiscal 
position; and (c) achieving aggregate fiscal performance broadly consistent with the target of a 
consolidated fiscal deficit of no more than Rs. 73 billion in Fiscal Year 2001-2002 as set out in 
the:  (i) power sector Financial Restructuring Plan approved by Karnataka for the period covering 
Fiscal Year 2001-2002 to Fiscal Year 2009-2010, and (ii) the Medium-Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) 
approved by Karnataka for the period covering Fiscal Year 2000-2001 to Fiscal Year 2004-2005, 
(provided to the Association and the Bank under Credit 3527-IN and Loan 4620-IN both dated 
July 26, 2001 for the Karnataka Economic Restructuring Program). 
2.
Karnataka has:  (a) prepared departmental MTFPs for four departments; (b) approved an 
updated draft MTFP for the state covering the period from Fiscal Year 2002-2003 to Fiscal Year 
2005-2006 for the purpose of guiding the preparation of the Fiscal Year 2002-2003 budget; and 
(c) strengthened mechanisms for independent evaluation of Program performance.
3.
Karnataka has drafted a Fiscal Responsibility Bill, 
inter alia
,
for the purpose of 
providing statutory backing to the MTFP process, and has released such draft for expert 
consultation.
4.
Karnataka has continued the extension of the program of self-assessment of taxpayers in 
preparation for the introduction of a system of Value Added Tax.
5.
Karnataka has: (a) approved a multi-year action plan for procurement reform; and (b) 
established a Central Procurement Cell to coordinate implementation of this action plan. 
Administrative Reforms
6.
Karnataka has continued to implement its Governance Strategy and Action Plan 
(provided to the Association and the Bank under Credit 3527-IN and Loan 4620-IN both dated 
July 26, 2001 for the Karnataka Economic Restructuring Program).
7.
Karnataka has taken a number of measures for the purposes of carrying out a program of 
civil service and public administration reform, including:  (a) substantially reducing transfers of 
civil servants; (b) establishing new rules for restricting transfers and making them more 
transparent; (c) completing functional reviews of 13 major government departments to guide the 
process of rationalizing government functions; (d) implementing pilot reforms to reduce elapsed 
time in government administrative transactions; and (e) published statewide citizen’s charters for 
two services with large public interface for improving service delivery as part of the program to 
scale-up pilot public agency reforms.
8.
Karnataka has established a Corruption Prevention Committee for the purpose of 
monitoring and publicly reporting on the implementation of the government’s anti-corruption 
program.
Private Sector Development
Page  9
9.
Karnataka has continued to implement the Policy Paper on Deregulation of the Business 
Environment (provided to the Association and the Bank under Credit 3527-IN and Loan 4620-IN 
both dated July 26, 2001 for the Karnataka Economic Restructuring Program), including through: 
(a) publication of amendment to rules for streamlining the procedures for starting and operating 
businesses; and (b) completion of procedures for introducing the Karnataka Industries 
Facilitation Bill in the State Legislature which aims, 
inter alia
, at streamlining the government 
approval process for new projects.
10.
Karnataka has continued to implement the Policy Paper on Public Sector Reforms and 
Privatization (provided to the Association and the Bank under Credit 3527-IN and Loan 4620-IN 
both dated July 26, 2001 for the Karnataka Economic Restructuring Program), through, 
inter 
alia,
 closing 3 public enterprises.
