Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18015
IMPLEMENTAT.ION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2082-MZ)
June 16, 1998
Private Sector and Finance
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Jts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =             Metical (MT)
US$1.0               =             11,850 (April 1998)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BM            Bank of Mozambique
BCM           Banco Comercial de Mo,ambique/Commercial Bank of Mozambique
BIM           Banco Internacional de Mo,ambique
BPD           Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento/Popular Development Bank
BSTM          Banco Standard Totta de Mo,ambique/Standard Totta Bank
CFD           Caisse Fran:aise de Developpement
ERP           Economic Rehabilitation Program
PFI           Participating Financial Intermediary
SMEDP         Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Development Project
ULC           United Leasing Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President          Callisto Madavo
Director                Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager          Thomas Allen
Team Leader             Arnold Sowa
Team Member             Gabrielle Rooz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2082-MZ)
TAE,LE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary .....................................................................         i-v
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment ....................................................................1I
A. Introduction                       ................1
B. Background ............................................................I
C. Statement of project objectives and evaluation ......................................... .   4
D. Major factors affecting the project and implementation record .......................... . 5 
E. Project documentation and data ............................ ................................5
F. Achievement of objectives ...........................................................S5
1. Relieve scarcity of term finance to viable enterprises to develop the
industrial sector .............   ..............................................S5
2. Rehabilitating the banking system's intermediary role for termn lending         13
G. Project sustainability ............................................................   14
H. Bank performance                                . . .                                   15
E. Borrower performance                              . . .                               16
J. Assessment of outcome ............................................................    16
K. Future operations                               . . .                                  17
L. Lessons learned ...................................................................   17
PartII: StatisticalAnnexes .....................................................................  19
Appendixes
A. Mission's aide-memoire ...................................................................  25
B. Borrower's contribution to the ICR ...................................................................  28
C. Cofinancier contribution to the ICR ...................................................................  34
D. Borrower's comments on draft ICR ...................................................................  35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTAT][ON COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBL][C OF MOZAMBIQUE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2082-MZ)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
Development Project in Mozambique, for which Credit 2082-MZ in the amount of SDR 25.1 million
(US$32.0 million equivalent) was approved in December 1989, and became effective in June 1990.
Parallel financing was provided by the European Investment Bank and Caisse Franqaise de
Developpement.
The Credit was closed in December 1997, one year after the original closing date of December
1996. Final disbursements were made on April 17, 1998. Total Credit disbursement was estimated to
be SDR 22.4 million (US$32.0 million equivalent), and an estimated SDR 2.7 million (US$3.6 million
equivalent) will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Gabrielle Rooz, and the Team Leader was Arnold Sowa, AFTP1. It
was reviewed by Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz, Country Director, CD2, Mr. Paul Murgatroyd, Financial Sector
Lead Specialist, AFTP1, Mr. Brian Falconer, Principal Operations Officer, OS2, and the previous task
managers. The Sector Manager is Mr. Thomas Allen. The borrower and Caisse Franqaise de
Developpement provided their own evaluation that are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision mission in September 1997.
The ICR mission took place in December 1997 during which the mission discussed the effectiveness of
this operation with staff of the apex unit, the participating financial intermediaries, and a sample of eight
firn beneficiaries selected at random. The mission members would like to thank them for their kind
cooperation and assistance in the preparation of this report. The report is based to a large extent on their
inputs. The report is also based on material in the project file. The report was sent to the borrower and
cofinanciers for comment. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by commenting on the
draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBL][C OF MOZAMBIQUE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2082-MZ)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Development Project (SMEDP) was prepared in 1988
to support and complement the Government's Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) launched in
1987. The project was designed to rehabilitate the industrial andfinancial sectors. The project built on
the short-term import support assistance provided to the industrial sector by external aid and started to
address the longer-term issue of industrial investment and rehabilitation. To complement this objective,
the project sought to rehabilitate the banking sector and to revive prudent investment lending to
enterprises. The SMEDP focused on the small-scale enterprises. An ongoing Industrial Enterprise
Restructuring Project was approved in parallel in 1989 and focused on larger scale enterprises.
2.    The ERP was the first comprehensive reform program implemented by IDA to assist the
Government transform a command economy into a market-oriented one. The measures were
implemented through two Rehabilitation Credits (1987 and 1989) to first address macroeconomic
distortions, sectoral allocations of expenditures, and credit policy. Prior to the ERP, IDA provided
assistance to the country through an Economic Action Program initiated in 1984 which was essentially
viewed as a "quick-fix"-type lending operation and had a limited content policy.
Project Objectives
3.    The project's main objectives were to:
* Relieve scarcity of term finance to financially viable enterprises in the industrial, mining, agriculture,
transport, and construction sectors.
* Rehabilitate the banking sector's capability to provide term lending.
* Assist the Government in formulating an industrial policy.
4.    The project included two related components:
*  An Enterprise Financing Component (LTS$28.6 million equivalent) for a line of credit to be on-lent
by the central bank, through an apex unit, to the participating financial intermediaries (PFIs)
*  An Institutional Strengthening Component (US$3.4 million) for technical assistance and training to
the PFIs and staff of the apex unit in the areas of project appraisal and processing.
5.    Cofinancing or parallel financing included Caisse Fran aise de Developpement and the
European Investment Bank for a total amolnt of US$4.5 million equivalent for the credit line. The
cofinanciers financed eight sub-loans in total, of which one was cofinanced with IDA. Prior to
effectiveness, UNDP financed a pre-operational training program which was continued under the project
for staff from commercial banks, the apex unit, and IDIL, the public business services agency.
6.    The objectives of the SMEDP were relevant but untimely. The project supported the
Government's first attempts to introduce fundamental changes to transform the economy, revitalize and



develop the industrial sector, and rebuild the banking sector. In this context, the objectives were
justified.
7.    Their achievement was, however, largely impaired by two main factors: (a) the difficult political
and economic environment in which the Government had to manage the transition from a centrally
planned to a market-driven economy; and (b) weak financial institutions and lack of key reforms in the
banking,sector which were initiated only in 1992. The likelihood of a reversal in macro and interest rate
policies was then high.
8.    Also, the potentially high cost to the financial institutions, which were to channel termn financing
to high-risk sub-borrowers under highly unstable political and economic conditions and lacked the
required skills, was not sufficiently recognized.  Finally, the adverse effects of the economic
liberalization policy on domestic producers during the transition years were not sufficiently taken into
consideration. Nor were the infrastructure deficiencies caused by an ongoing civil war during the first
years of implementation with enduring effects throughout implementation.
9.    lhe design of the SMEDP reflected the same lack of sequencing found in the different elements
of the enterprise reform policy of the ERP, as well as inadequate attention to their linkages. Two of
these elements were: (a) the commercial and legal framework, in particular lack of enforcement of
commercial contracts, as reflected in the accumulation of bad debt in the productive sector and between
that sector and the financial sector, because of past commercial practice and state credit provisions; and
(b) delayed reform of the banking sector. The legacy of the former contributed to the high default rate on
sub-loans. Delayed reform of the banking sector led to the macroeconomic instability which dominated
during much of implementation. Monetary leakages through the two former state-owned banks generated
monetary instability and the consequent macroeconomic instability. The combined effect of a weak
banking sector and macroeconomic instability was one of the major factors contributing to the project's
poor results.
Implementation Experience and Results
10.   Overall, the project did not achieve its objectives. Although most of the funds from the credit
line were disbursed, IDA's transferred resources did not finance viable investments, based on a currently
high default rate of 73% on the sub-loans. Training to upgrade commercial bank staff skills in project
appraisal and processing techniques did not yield the expected results, also as evidenced by the high
default rate.
11.   The credit line financed a total of 134 sub-projects, of which 63% were new projects. The
largest share of total investment and number of sub-loans were in the industry and manufacturing sectors
(27% each), with a 55% concentration in Maputo. Investmnents were expected to generate a total
employment of 5,029 jobs, at a cost of US$5,627/job (ex-ante). Based on actual data from one
commercial bank and an 8-firm sample visited as part of the ICR mission, a combined total number of
664 jobs were created, for a total sub-loan amount of US$3,044,419, at an average investment cost/job
of US$4,585. Thus, 10% of IDA funds created 664 jobs. If all loans were good loans, the actual job
creation would be close to the appraisal estimate of 6,000. However, although firms' performance could
improve if the current economic trends continue, the present uncertain status of many firms tends to
make the overall employment creation questionable.
12.   Initially, three commercial banks participated in the on-lending program--two state banks which
were privatized towards the end of the project, and a private bank. Two additional PFIs, one private
bank ancl one leasing company, participated in the program toward the end of the project. The two
former state banks on-lent 87% of IDA funds and together accounted for almost all defaulting sub-loans.



iii
13.   The project was implemented in an unstable political and economic environment and during
periods of high inflation. Although interest rates were liberalized in 1994, they remained at fixed and
negative levels until end of 1996, as the necessary pre-conditions for a market-driven financial system
were absent. One of the major causes was the predominance in the banking system of state-owned banks
which had operated for years with relatively poor commercial cultures in a non-competitive environment
and under a system of state-directed credit allocation.
14.   Lending rates, both on commercial loans and sub-loans, were negative in real terms during most
of project execution. Real negative rates resulted in attractive subsidies for the sub-borrowers. If the
majority of problem sub-projects does not prove financially viable overtime, these implicit subsidies
could add to the country's already excessive debt burden, further worsening its debt service payment
capacity. Finally, negative rates discouragedl domestic resource mobilization, which in turn perpetuated
a scarcity situation and adversely affected the project's sustainability.
15.   Achievement of the institutional strengthening component, which accounted for only 11% of
total Credit, was unsatisfactory. Skills of commercial bank staff in accounting, project appraisal and
processing were deficient and did not improve significantly. The pre-operational training program was
insufficient, both in scope and duration. Of a total of 50 staff who received training, only three were left
in the banks' credit department, two in one bank, and one in the other. Financial assistance provided to
the firms for assistance in developing business plans, but without the adjunct ongoing technical
assistance, resulted in poor appraisal of the financial viability of the sub-projects contributing to the high
default rate. Local private and public entities did not have the required skills in this area to provide
meaningful support services to the firms. The objective of establishing an apex unit to create a long-term
structure for future IDA or other donor credit lines was not achieved.
16.   Project Sustainability. The project was implemented under highly uncertain conditions. The
project, as designed and carried out under thlese conditions, is not sustainable. Changes which would
pave the way for macroeconomic stabilizatiion started to take place in 1995, with 1996-1997 as the
transition years. It remains to be seen how the firm beneficiaries will perform over a given time horizon,
or the survival rate, under the current much improved economic conditions. Only then can true rates of
return, both financial and economic, be measured, hence the project's impact on the firm beneficiaries.
The project's sustainability in terms of financing productive capacity is thus uncertain. However, while
not quantified, a large number of sub-projects may have had negative returns, and those sub-projects
which will survive are likely to have low returns because of the long delays in project benefits. The
project's sustainability in terms of building the PFIs' capacity to provide ongoing term lending is
unlikely.
17.   Bank performance. The project was prepared and implemented during a period of fundamental
economic and institutional reforms. The Bank's assistance to the country was hindered by a highly
uncertain political situation following the aftermath of 16 years of a civil war which ended in 1992.
However, in the rush to provide term lending to help the Government relieve a scarcity in term financing
to small firms, and in the absence of a developed private sector, the Bank over-relied on state-owned or
controlled public entities as participating agencies. While the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) correctly
highlighted the limitations of the Business Environment Study which provided the basis for project
design, the project was nonetheless prepared on the Bank's optimistic assumptions as to the pace of the
reform program. Neither the study nor the SAR were complemented by sufficient financial sector work.
One fundamental flaw in the project design, which was also found in the overall reform program, was to
have failed to recognize the crucial linkages between the financial and real sectors. Because
Mozambique was considered a strategic country at the time, recommendations of the Levy report were
not taken fully into account. Neither were OD 8.30 during implementation. With the benefit of
hindsight, the project should have been substantially delayed and/or designed as a small pilot operation,
as opposed to a full-fledged investment pn)ject, given the uncertainty as to the pace of the reform



iv
program, lack of knowledge about the SME sub-sector, and the country's very low institutional capacity.
Supervision tended to focus on improving the slow disbursement rates, at the expense of project impact.
While corrective actions were taken following a change in task management at the end of the project, by
suspending on-lending of funds through the two state banks, these actions failed to have an effective
remedial impact, as most funds were already disbursed, and the project was about to close. Borrower
performance. Until their privatization, the Government's inadequate control over the two state banks
was largely responsible for its failed monetary policy, resulting in high inflation. Project performance
would have benefited from the apex unit's greater involvement in the monitoring and supervision of sub-
projects, especially given the poor recovery rate on the sub-loans.
Assessment of Outcome
18.   Based on project results, project outcome is unsatisfactory.
Future Olperations
19.   Measures to build on reforms already achieved under prior adjustment operations are part of the
proposed Economic Management Reform Credit (FY99). The EMRC will particularly focus on fiscal
reforms and on improving the business environment to foster private-sector-led growth. Fiscal reforms
will include financial deepening and better coordination between monetary and fiscal policies, and
private sector measures will aim to establish a legal and administrative framework in line with market-
driven economic structures. A follow-up investment operation is also slated for FY99.
20.   Notwithstanding substantial achievements in macroeconomic policy and privatization programs
over the last five years, private-sector growth response has been modest, especially with respect to local
Mozambican-owned firms. The proposed Mozambique Enterprise Development Project (the PoDE) will
aim to improve the business environment and accelerate broad-based economic growth through capacity
building of private firms and institutions.  Particular emphasis will be placed on developing
Mozambican-owned firms' export potential and linking domestic suppliers with foreign investors.
Specifically, the project will: (a) assist enterprises in raising the technical skills of their management and
workers; (b) provide financial resources for export development and enterprise technology upgrading;
and (c) improve private and Government institutions' capability to deliver support services to the
business community.
Key Lessons Learned
21.   The key lessons learned are:
*  Implementation of this project confirms the validity of OD 8.30 which were not rigorously followed
during project implementation, particularly with respect to term lending under high inflationary
periods and by weak institutions, and distortions created by directed credit and targeted credit
subsidies, in particular interest rate subsidies. Lines of credit are not useful tools when implemented
under unstable economic and business conditions because risks associated with new investments are
too large.
*  Lines of credit are not the appropriate instruments to address sectoral policies. Lines of credit are
most likely to be adversely affected by macro and sectoral distortions which are best addressed in an
overall macroeconomic policy framework. Continuing commitments under FILs should be linked to
the effective implementation and maintenance of a satisfactory policy framework, a justifiable pre-
condition for an IDA line of credit as well as for its successful implementation.



v
+ It is very difficult to stop commitments under a project which has no clearly established ongoing
conditionalities once the project has been launched. Ongoing sub-project commitments should be
explicitly linked to project performance. Project implementation design should include explicit
monitoring performance indicators to assess the continued eligibility of financial institutions and
other entities, public or private, sub-project performance, and technical assistance impact.
* The financial sector should not be viewed essentially as a "non-real" delivery mechanism to support
the real sector, with little inherent importance in itself. Prospects for success are poor when PFIs are
unsound and lack the skills and commercial orientation necessary to make good credit decisions.
+ It is very difficult to take a financially poorly performing bank with non-commercial objectives and
weak management--characteristics most likely to be found in state-owned than private banks--and
turn it into an effective financial interme,diary.
* Interest rates should be variable to allow the pricing of capital to be market-determined and to reduce
interest rate risk for lenders and borrowers. During high inflationary periods, an indexing
mechanism might be best, as opposed to Government-adjusted rates, although experience such as in
Brazil has shown that indexing tends to perpetuate inflation. An indexing mechanism might also be
applied to Government's fee for currency risk coverage, if the Government is to bear the cost of
foreign exchange. Proceeds from the fee should be deposited in a fund in a commercial bank to earn
interest.
* Implementation of the project raises the usefulness of "quick-fix"-type lending operations in highly
uncertain conditions. When local capacity is low, and/or fundamental economic and sectoral reforms
are underway, a small pilot project and more prolonged training programs are more suitable than a
full-scale operation to fully take into account the time factor during the transition years, and adapt
and build knowledge about the (sub)sectors involved. The pilot project should include a simple,
straightforward, and focused approach to reduce the final costs to the banks and firms. The approach
should also be sufficiently flexible to allow for changes as needed in project execution.
*  Technical assistance to build SMEs' capacity is as important as their access to capital. This technical
assistance need not be a supplement to sub-loans, but could be a stand-alone component. It should
be demand-driven.
* The apex unit should be managed under a management contract arrangement. This is especially
crucial if the objective of setting up an apex unit is to transfer the monitoring and supervision aspects
closer to the financial intermediaries ancl final beneficiaries. Monitoring indicators should be set to
assess the unit's operating performance. Finally, in addition to monitoring a database on sub-loans
and projects, the apex unit should possess or develop an analytical capability to assess the project's
impact on an ongoing basis. This would allow introducing needed changes in the project scope
and/or design throughout implementation. Under this project, the apex unit is meant to be a "sunset
organization".



PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    The Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Development Project (SMEDP) was prepared in 1988
to support and complement the Government's Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) launched in
1987. The project was designed to rehabilitate the industrial andfinancial sectors. The project built on
the short-term import support assistance provided to the industrial sector by external aid and started to
address the longer-term issue of industrial investment and rehabilitation. To complement this objective,
the project sought to rehabilitate the banking sector and to revive prudent investment lending to
enterprises. The SMEDP focused on the small-scale enterprises. An ongoing Industrial Enterprise
Restructuring Project was approved in parallel in 1989 and focused on larger scale enterprises.
B. Background
2.    In the years preceding preparation of the SMEDP, the effects of years of civil war and a centrally
planned economy since the country's independence from Portugal in 1975 were devastating. Social
indicators were among the worst in the world. An estimated 60-70 percent of the population lived in
absolute poverty, the agriculture sector was below subsistence levels, and internal fighting and sabotage
had destroyed much of the rural infrastructure, Real GDP declined by an estimated 12.8 percent p.a. on
average in 1980-87, and share of industry, as a % of GDP, by 22 percent on average over the same
period. As a result of a deterioration in the country's export and import capacity, Mozambique became
overly dependent on emergency assistance and external aid, with an external debt stock equal to 3.5
times GDP and 45 times exports. Finally, the country's extremely weak institutional capacity could be
improved only by training an entire new generation, "a task that would take more than a decade".'
3.     The adjustment process to overhaul the economy from centrally planned to market-oriented was
tackled by successive adjustment programs and credits, supported by the IMF and other donors. The first
IDA Credit to Mozambique was the Rehabililation Program in 1984. The Credit had a limited policy
content and was viewed essentially as a "quic]k-fix"-type lending operation. It supported some specific
producer price reforms and changes in Mozambique's import procurement procedures. The Credit was
successful in establishing a Bank/Government dialogue on, and commitment to, structural adjustment
and the Bank's central role in the process. It was followed by the more comprehensive Economic
Recovery Program (ERP), 1987-89. The program's adjustment measures were included in the Second
Rehabilitation Credit (1987) (SRC) and the Third Rehabilitation Credit (1989) (TRC).
4.    The ERP's broad objective was to create greater reliance on market mechanism, reduce state
intervention in economic activity, and integrate the national economy within the international economic
environment. The reform program's primary strategy was to re-establish a market-based incentive
structure in the productive and distributive sectors. Initial reforms of price and import controls were
supported by the SRC and TRC, as well as the first Credit. All three Credits were largely effective in
implementing these reforms and maintained the impetus for change, despite the adverse effects of the
insecurity situation until the signing of the FPeace treaty in 1992, and the severe drought of 1991-92
which devastated the agricultural sector. Anothler external shock was the country's loss of key markets in
Eastern Europe when aid from, and trade with, the former Soviet Union stopped in 1991, resulting in loss
of foreign exchange of over 8 percent of GDP.
5.    In 1987, at the start of the ERP, as in 1989 when the TRC and the SMEDP were prepared, the
primary problem faced by the Bank and the Government was to design a set of reforms in the context of
' World Bank. Mozambique, Financial Sector Study, Report No. 10269-MOZ, September 1992.



2
an ongoing war situation. It was recognized that the uncertain situation would markedly impact on the
responsiveness of changes to the reforms. Consequently, the reform program was designed based on a
gradualist approach to take into account the war situation, the time required to allow the population to
adjust to a fundamentally different economic and social environment, and the severe constraints on the
supply side, including infrastructural deficiencies.
6.    Throughout the 1989-95 adjustment period, major progress was made towards relaxation of
pricing controls and adoption of prices more closely linked to international prices. However, this process
led to domestic industry facing increasingly intense international competition for which it was not well
prepared. ]First, the obsolete production processes and grossly distorted financial structure placed it in a
weak positiion. Also, although domestic prices had been realigned with the international price structure
to a considerable extent, the effectiveness of the reform program was seriously hampered by the failure
to unite the parallel and official product markets. This failure was caused by the influx of emergency
assistance, of which a large percentage was illegally finding its way to parallel markets; the increased
flow of illegal imports from neighboring countries; the tax evasion in the parallel markets, both on
international trade and domestic transactions, rendering domestic producers uncompetitive (and reducing
the revenue flow to the government); the continuing, although not as large, overvaluation of the local
currency. Substantial imports into the domestic economy through parallel market channels were
facilitated by the ineffectiveness of the national customs system and the fiscal system's deficiencies.
7.    Effectiveness of the reform program in the areas of enterprise and financial sector reforms was
also limited. State ownership of the productive enterprises and financial institutions was still dominant.
Reforms in the financial sector had been viewed as less of a priority as reforms in the enterprise sector,
and were delayed as a result. Failure to recognize the crucial linkages between the two sectors was to
severely imipact on successfully reforming the enterprise sector. The banking sector was supporting loss-
making state enterprises. The design of the SMEDP was based on the same oversight of the linkages
between the financial and real sectors as in the reform program. Delayed reforms of the banking sector
led to the imacroeconomic instability which dominated during much of the execution of the SMEDP.
Monetary leakages through the two state-owned banks generated monetary instability and the consequent
macroeconomic instability. The combined effect of a weak banking sector and macroeconomic
instability was one of the major factors contributing to the project's poor results.
8.    The next adjustment operation was the Economic Recovery Credit (FY92) which supported the
early phases of financial sector reforms, and further integration and liberalization of the exchange rate.
This Credit was followed by the Second Economic Recovery Credit (SERC) (FY94) and the Third
Economic Recovery Credit (TERC) (FY97). The SERC focused on strengthening fiscal and monetary
policy and an interlinked program of enterprise and financial sector reforms. One of the major
achievements of the SERC was to establish macroeconomic stability and low inflation through
successful reforms in the financial sector--privatization of state banks, opening up of the sector to an
increasing number of private banks, bringing in more competition and resulting in more and better
financial services. Macroeconomic stability was also achieved through the privatization of state
enterprises which represented the large, non-performing borrowers from the banking system. The
ongoing Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project was restructured in 1994 to provide more focused
technical assistance to privatized firms which also contributed significantly to the acceleration of the
privatization program. The privatization program in turn contributed to a faster eco-iomic growth
through increased industrial output.



3
9.      Macroeconomic Indicators, 1987-1997'
.           A     ------_ ---------Actua       ---------------------   997 Estimates
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   DNP*   INE*
Real GDP Growth Rate (%)    4.6    8.2    6.5    0.9    4.9   -0.8   18.8    4.5    1.4    6.4    7.9    7.9
Inflation (end-period) (%)   -    49.4   35.0   47.1   35.2   54.5   43.6   70.2   54.1    16.6    5.8    5.8
Private Investment/GDP      18.8   21.1   18.9   23.7   26.0   31.1   38.0   30.1   32.2   31.5   25.8   13.6
Public Investment/GDP       17.3   22.2   21.46   20.9   19.7   17.6   16.4   20.9   19.0   16.8   19.3   14.3
GrossDomestic SavingslGDP    -2.4    -2.1   -6.7    1.5    4.5    5.5   10.4    5.7   18.0   19.9   22.5    11.1
Gross National Savings/GDP  2.2   12.4    3.2   15.2    12.5   15.8   19.6   15.7   17.7   17.5   21.7    11.3
Public Sector Surplus      -22.9  -27.0  -24.8  -29.2  -24.9  -26.3  -22.2  -29.7  -20.8   -17.0  -20.1   -14.9
(Deficit)/GDP /1
Real Effective Exch. Rate/2    -61.0  -36.0    3.0  0     -16.0  -24.0   -1.0   -1.0   -4.0    4.0    10.0   10.0
Exports (GNFS)/GDP          13.0   15.7   16.0    16.0   21.8   23.7   21.3   24.3   27.4   27.6    26.4   19.5
Imports (GNFS)/GDP         51.4   61.1   63.:3   59.    63.0   66.9   65.3   69.6   60.6   56.0    49.0   36.2
Cuffent Account /GDP /3    -25.4  -23.3  -28.2   22.0   -16.5  -18.6  -21.9  -20.5  -22.7  -22.4  -13.4   -9.9
Total Debt Service/GDP /4  40.5    43.2   37.      34.6   34.1   40.7   34.1   32.0   28.4   21.8   18.1   13.4
Source: CAS 1997. /1 = excl. grants; /2 percent change; (-) = devaluation; /3 = after grants. /4 = total debt service due before debt relief, including IMF.
DNP = National Planning Commission; INE = National Statistics Institute.
10.     Economic growth. Real GDP growth hides important annual and sectoral variations. In 1993,
the year following the peace accord, GDP growth is estimated at 19 percent p.a. as the influx of refugees
were returning to the rural areas and resumed agricultural production. By contrast, in the same year,
industrial production fell sharply. The declining trend was reversed in 1995 when manufacturing output
increased by 18.5 percent following the privatization of large, loss-making state enterprises. The
transport and commercial sectors also experienced strong growth over the same period, estimated to be
6.4 percent in 1996 and 7.9 percent in 1997.
11.     The financial sector. At the time the SMEDP was prepared, the financial sector included the
Bank of Mozambique (BM); Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), a second state-owned bank
which was largely directed to the agriculture sector; Banco Standard Totta (BSTM), a private bank; and
a state insurance company. The Bank of Mozambique was the central bank as vvell as the largest
commercial bank. Its primary function was to meet the needs of the centrally planned economy.
Banking services were limited to accepting deposits, to be lent out to Government and state enterprises.
The Bank undertook the first sector study in 1992 which served as a basis for outlining a reform
program. The study stated that as far as the financial sector of Mozambique was concerned, it was more
a matter of forming, rather than reforming one.
12.     One of the first priorities was to separate BM's central and commercial banking functions. The
separation was completed in 1992 by establishing the Bank of Mozambique as the central bank and the
separate Commercial Bank of Mozambique (BCM). While this measure resulted in producing a clean
balance sheet for the central bank, it did riot address structural problems, and the accumulated non-
performing loans from state enterprises for the period 1987-1992, representing 4 percent of GDP, were
transferred to BCM. Measures to rehabilitale, restructure, and privatize BCM and BPD were supported
under the Second Economic Recovery Program in 1994. BCM was first restructured owing to its
extremely poor financial condition: the bank's losses were equivalent to 12 percent of GDP. It was
eventually privatized in July 1996 when it became difficult to keep its lending operations within agreed
credit ceilings. BPD was privatized in September 1997. Prior to their privatization, the Government's
inadequate control over the state banks was largely responsible for its failed monetary policy. In 1996,
immediately before their privatization, a substantial financial deterioration in the two banks caused them
to run excessive overdrafts.
2 Statistical data (level of GDP and ratios to GDP) from the National Planning Commission (DNP) tend to be somewhat misleading due to
inadequacies in the national accounts. The Govemment has, recently adopted statistics from the National Statistics Institute (INE) as official
data, starting with the year 1991. Statistics from DNP are used in this report for time series purposes, but [NE 1997 estimates are also shown.



4
13.    Over the life of the project, Mozambique's financial sector gradually evolved from  a
predominantly state-controlled system to one which is now fully private. These changes were
progressively reflected in the type of financial intermediaries participating in IDA on-lending program.
By project completion, two additional private intermediaries were channeling funds from the line of
credit (Banco International de Mozambique (BIM) and United Leasing Company (ULC)). However, the
impact of an emerging competitive financial market had relatively little effect on the project's outcome
as these changes took place towards the end of the project. Hence, with respect to the participating
financial intermediaries, the focus of the report is on the three commercial banks which participated in
the on-leiading program from the outset: BCM, BPD, and BSTM.
C. Statement of Project Objectives and Evaluation
Overall objective  *  Support and complement the ERP reforms by rehabilitating the financial and industrial sectors.
Main objectives    +  Relieve scarcity of term finance to viable enterprises, building on the short-term import
financing assistance provided so far by the donor community
*  Rehabilitate the banks' capability to provide term lending
+  Assist the Government in formulating an industrial policy
Line-of-caedit     *  US$28.6 million equivalent (Enterprise Financing Component)
*  Funds on-lent by the apex unit to PFIs.
Technical assistance  *  US$3.4 million equivalent (Institutional Strengthening Component).
and training
Cofinanciers       *  Caisse Franaaise, European Investment Bank, for a total of US$4.5 million equivalent.
14.    The objectives of the SMEDP were relevant but untimely. The project supported the
Government's first attempts to introduce fundamental changes to transform the economy, revitalize and
develop the industrial sector, and rebuild the banking sector. In this context, the objectives were
justified.
15.    Their achievement was, however, largely impaired by two main factors: (a) the difficult political
and economic environment in which the Government had to manage the transition from a centrally
planned to a market-driven economy; (b) weak financial institutions and lack of key reforms in the
banking sector which were initiated only in 1992. The likelihood of a reversal in macro and interest rate
policies was then high.
16.    Also, the potentially high cost to the financial institutions, which were to channel term financing
to high-risk sub-borrowers under highly unstable political and economic conditions and lacked the
required skills, was not sufficiently recognized. Finally, in addition to infrastructure deficiencies, the
adverse effects of the economic liberalization policy on domestic producers during the transition years
were not sufficiently taken into consideration.
17.    As stated in para. 7, the design of the SMEDP reflected the same lack of sequencing found in the
different elements of the enterprise reform policy of the ERP, as well as inadequate attention to their
linkages. Two of these elements were: (a) the commercial and legal framework, in particular lack of
enforcennent of commercial contracts, as reflected in the accumulation of bad debt in the productive
sector and between that sector and the financial sector, because of past commercial practice and state
credit provisions; and (b) delayed reform of the banking sector.



5
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project and Implementation Record
18.    The major factors undermining the project's success were then, to a large extent, the combined
effects of the above factors:
* An unstable political and economic environment.
*  Failure to take into account in the project design the gradualist approach of the ERP.
* Failure to recognize the linkages between the financial and real sectors in the preliminary sector
work3 which provided the basis for project design. This resulted in lack of financial sector work to
complement the preliminary study
* Because Mozambique was viewed at the tirme as a strategic country, recommendations from the 1989
Report of the Task Force on Financial Sector Operations4, and subsequently OD 8.30, were not taken
fully into account, especially with respect to term lending in high inflationary periods and distortions
created by directed subsidized credit.
+ The Bank's over-reliance on state-owned or controlled public entities as participating agencies: state-
owned banks, as financial intermediaries vhich did not have the incentives to make proper decisions
in the allocation of capital; and IDIL, a state-run business advisory services, in the rush to provide
term lending to help the Government relieve a scarcity in term funds to small firms, and in the
absence of a developed private sector.
+ The Bank's emphasis on disbursement rates to measure project performance, rather than actual
impact.
19.    The project was appraised in April 1989 and negotiated in June 1989. The Credit was approved
by the Board in December 1989, signed in February 1990, and became effective in June 1990. The
closing date was extended by one year, from December 31, 1996, to December 31, 1997 to allow for
disbursements on committed funds.
E. Project Documentation and Data
20.    During implementation, the apex uniit maintained a large database of basic raw data on the
lending program: sources and uses of funds, sectoral and regional distribution, and expected job
creation. Unfortunately, data on file were not updated after the sub-loans were approved and disbursed,
and no data were kept on the status of sub-loans or on the actual performance of the firms. Statistical
information presented in this report is based on these ex-ante data, as well as available data collected
from the PFIs during the ICR mission, and interviews with the PFIs and a sample of eight firms selected
at random. The PFIs (mainly the former two state banks whose combined shares represented 87 percent
of total lending from IDA funds) did not monitor their internal costs associated with the sub-loans. The
ICR mission was not able to obtain financial statements from the PFIs, especially the former state banks,
to calculate basic financial ratios, such as earnings performance and exposure, or age of, and trend in,
arrears. Visited firms did not produce financial statements or records to permit a re-assessment of rates
of return on their sub-projects.
F. Achievement of Objectives
(a)    Relieve scarcity of term foreign exchange financing to viable enterprises to develop
the industrial sector
3World Bank. Mozambique - The Development of Industrial F'olicy and Reform of the Business Environment, Report No. 7795, May 1990.
4World Bank. Report of the Task Force on Financial Sector Operations, No. R89-163, August 1989.



6
21.    The credit line under the Enterprise Financing Component was to provide foreign exchange
for fixed asset investment; associated incremental permanent working capital; and consulting services for
project preparation. The following table shows the financing arrangements under the project for the line
of credit:
Financing Arrangements
Disbursement Mechanism         On-lending Mechanism                  Repayment Mechanism
Terms:      40 years, standard
100 percent FE - 70 percent LC  IDA                              Grace period: 10 years
Interest rate:  0.75 percent
_       ~~~bears cuffency nsk
refinance 90-80 percent *  Central Ban     fee to PFIs: 73/65 %  PFI current account debit mechanismn
0   Apex Unit  on final on-lending rate   same due dates as those on individual sub-loans
l ~~~changed to 50% in 1993
30 percent of LC                        bears credit risk on full
1 ~~~sub-loan value
Sub-loan denominated and repaid in local currency
10-20 percent equity        Firms                            Maturity:           3-12 years
On-lending Interest Rate: payable every 3 months
Grace period: :     1-4 years
FE= foreign exchange; LC = local costs. 4 90 percent for expansion/rehabilitation projects. 80 percent for new projects.
22.    Resource Transfer. About US$28.8 million, out
of an initial allocation of US$28.6 million equivalent,               IDACreditAllocationMbPFI
were disbursed under this component.
23.    Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs).
IDA Credil; allocation among the PFIs closely reflected                    BCM           20%
the banks' relative share in the banking sector: BCM  67                   67%
percent, B]PD 20 percent, and BSTM  5 percent.  By
contrast, lILC's 6 percent share was relatively high,
especially given the leasing company's late participation
in the on-lending program, in the last year of the project.
On the other hand, BIM's 2 percent participation was low
relative to the bank's size in the sector.                   Source: Apex unit.
24.    The enterprise financing component of US$28.8 million equivalent supported a total investment
of about M4ts. 431.8 billion, or US$81.4 million equivalent. Of this amount the EIB and Caisse
Franqaise de Developpement financed in parallel about US$4.5 million equivalent, or 6 percent, the PFIs
about Mts 76.7 billion from their own funds, or 18 percent, and the firms about Mts. 115.1 billion, or 27
percent. Thus, total local contribution to the credit line represented 44 percent of total investment. Firms'
participation was their equity contribution to total investment costs, of   10-20 percent.  PFIs'
contribution, as recorded by the apex unit at the time of sub-loan approval, represented the local costs
component of the sub-loan: the working capital portion of the sub-loan, and/or IDA 30 percent local
costs requirement when not covered by the firms. Under the project, PFIs were not required to have
direct exposure, although their participation was estimated at appraisal to be about 7 percent.
25.    In reality, the banks' contribution was greater. Additional loans from the PFIs to the firms, at
commercial rates higher than the subsidized on-lending rates, resulted from frequent cost overruns
experienced by the sub-projects, compounded by unpredictable inflation. The cost overruns were in large
part due to lengthy (one year on average) procedures in the complete approval/disbursement cycle. They
were also due to additional financing needs for working capital requirements resulting from



7
underestimated initial investment costs. BCM reported an average 30 percent increase beyond its initial
contribution. Requiring a greater equity participation from the firms was seldom a workable alternative
solution as they did not have the resources. Most of them had already found the 20 percent equity
requirement difficult to meet. (Normally, new investment projects should not have leverage higher than
2:1, except in very unusual low-risk situations. New, very risky sub-projects, such as those financed by
IDA line of credit, had very high debt/equity ratio, which was likely to undermine the financial
conditions of the PFIs.) In no case was the sub-borrower's equity investment re-assessed after the sub-
loan was approved, nor was the debt/equily ratio recalculated. Finally, because of exceptions to the
global credit ceilings in effect under the IMF program granted to "special" programs, including the IDA
line of credit, the 1992 sectoral study raised the issue of leakages through the banking system contributed
by the line of credit (and other donors) adding to an already difficult monetary control situation.
26.    The effect of this increase on the PF'Is' portfolio was mitigated by the small proportion the credit
line represented as a percentage of their overall lending portfolio: BPD 9 percent and BSTM 6 percent.
BCM's figure was not available for preparaltion of the report, but was also assumed to be low. While the
banks indicated that IDA funds relieved a scarcity in term credit to credit-constrained enterprises, they
showed a mixed response to the on-lending program for the reasons explained below.
27.    First, as stated above, since the PFIs were allowed to circumvent credit ceilings by lending from
this credit line, they used the IDA line of credit only to complement the ceilings--although not always
adhered to by the former state banks, nor reinforced by the Government for state banks. The banks were
inclined to sidestep this credit to offer more attractive short-term commercial loans to their customers
because of higher spreads on commercial loans and lending restrictions associated with the directed
funding element of the credit line. In doing so, they were able to take advantage of the substitutability,
albeit limited and distorted, in the local financial markets. This was certainly the case for BSTM, the
private bank and the only bank to abide by credit ceilings.
28.    Second, PFI use of their own resources resulted in a term mismatch of their balance sheet,
given the short-term nature of deposits in Mozambique.
29. - --Third, the banks indicated that, without the IDA line of credit, they would not have channeled
resources to small sub-borrowers because of- inadequate collateral, high risks, and high transaction costs
relative to the size of the loans. Added incentives resulted from the Government assuming the currency
risk and sub-loan repayments in local currency.5 BSTM circumvented high transaction costs associated
with high-risk sub-borrowers by lending only to long-time customers with an established track record.
This practice largely eliminated the need for' project evaluation for which the bank did not have staffing
resources.
30.    Fourth, poor loan collection under the line of credit reduced the banks' profitability. Reduced
profitability could only reinforce the banks' bias against small firms and will make it difficult for them
to include these firms into their normal lending portfolio.  This in turn affected the program's
sustainability.
31.    The fifth and last factor was the relatively high fee charged by the central bank on the PFIs' final
on-lending rates to the firms to cover the apex unit's operating costs and the Government's currency risk,
resulting in unfavorable spreads to the PFIs. This spread was initially set at 73 percent of the final on-
lending rate for sub-loans up to seven years, and 65 percent above seven years. It was later changed to
5Since the banks did not monitor their internal costs associated with the sub-loans, it was not possible to deternine
the magnitude of costs related to the processing and supervision of sub-loans and risks, if any.



8
50 percent for all new sub-loans following the project mid-term review in November 1993, when the
high spread was recognized as a major deterrent to PFI participation. As no market-determined interest
rates existed at the time, this method was used as opposed to the central bank charging the PFIs their
marginal (or average) cost of capital. The banks indicated that this fixed cost, even amended, contributed
to their negative returns.
32.    In 1996, the central bank established, as its minimum  on-lending rate, a reference base rate
which closely followed the discount rate, but which was always set below the discount rate. Should the
final on-lending rate charged by the PFIs to the firms be lower than the reference rate, the central bank's
fees were charged on the reference rate in order to ensure an adequate cost coverage for the central bank.
At Credit closing, the reference rate was 12 percent, compared to the discount rate of 12.95 percent.
33.    On-lending Rates. Under the terms of the project, on-lending rates on sub-loans were to be
variable and market-determined. On-lending terms and conditions, and progress in achieving positive
on-lending rates in real terms were to be reviewed annually by IDA and the Government if review of the
general interest rate structure was no longer undertaken under an ongoing IMF program.
34.    UJntil 1994, when interest rates were liberalized, the Government followed a policy of
administratively fixed rates, which were adjusted in 1991 to positive real levels and fluctuated between
positive and negative in real terms in 1992-1993. However, even when fully liberalized, interest rates
did not respond to market forces because the pre-conditions for a market-driven system to work were not
in place. A major cause was the predominance in the banking system of state-owned banks which had
operated for years in a non-competitive environment and under a system of state-directed credit
allocation.
100-
90                                         CAmual Inflation
so *           *              w~    ;;;;                    Ct  ~  ~ ~ Subloan Rate
70
60                                                                            -     Commercial Rate
50
40
20                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - - Subloan Rate
10
-10
-20                                                                            -  -  -  Subloan real rate
-30
-40
-so
-60  -- 2Commercial real
91 A J 0 92 A 3 0 93 A J 0 94 A 3 0 95 A J 0 96 A 3 0 97 A J 0                    rate
Month
Sources: Commercial banks, Bank ofMozambique, National Statistics Institute.
35.    Thus, during the 1994-96 transition period from a state-controlled to market-oriented system,
commercial rates remained fixed and negative in real terms. IDA sub-loans (and other donors' lines of
credit) benefited from a preferential rate, fixed by the Government below the commercial rate, to induce
borrowing by the targeted small firms. The result was an attractive subsidy for small firms as their
borrowing cost did not reflect the true opportunity cost of capital. At the end of 1996, with a substantial
fall in inflation, real rates turned positive. Small firms who contracted their debt when rates were heavily
subsidized saw an unexpected real increase in their debt-servicing obligations contributing to collection
difficulties.
36.    Given rising inflation and real negative rates on average during project implementation, the
banks would have found it difficult to earn a positive rate of return on their assets and maintain a real



9
return on their capital (not only on the credit line but on their overall portfolio as well), resulting in an
erosion of their capital base, even if high bad debt had not caused losses. Losses resulting from a high
percentage of bad loans (on their overall portfolio, including the line of credit) contributed to a
deterioration of their portfolio.
37.   At the end of 1996, BSTM which had 100 percent good sub-loans indicated it was able to earn a
nominal profit margin of 5 percent, which it found adequate. On the other hand, BCM and BPD reported
that they could not post positive margins on the sub-loans which were transferred to them when they
became private banks as the two banks on-lent the majority of bad sub-loans. At Credit closing, on-
lending rates charged by the commercial banks still followed closely the commercial rates of 19-25
percent. BCM's gross spread on on-lending rate was 10 percent, BPD 12.5 percent, and BSTM 9
percent. BCM was negotiating with the central bank a reduction in the 50 percent servicing fee.
38.   Currently, the 19-25 percent commercial rates in Mozanbique are high relative to the estimated
low inflation rate of 5.8 percent. This is because, although a number of reforms have been put in place,
the banking sector is still underdeveloped and cash-based. Banks, which have weak treasury
management, tend to hold a high percentage of non-earning assets (equal to about 30-40 percent of
deposits) as excess reserves to respond to the cash needs of their clients. This increases the spread they
require between deposits and lending rates. Another factor is the relative lack of competition among
banks.
39.   Recovery Performance. The arrears situation remained serious, as shown in the table below.
Total no. of   No. Paying   No. Rescheduled/           No. in        No. in
PFIs  active sub-projects Regularly  Paying Irregularly  No. Defaulting Grace Period  Collection Process
BCM           89           6             37            41           3             2
BPD           23           2             4             9            4             4
BIM            1            -            -              -           1       _
BSTM           8           6             -                          2
ULC           13           8              1             -           4
Total       134         22             42            50          14             6
40.    The overall default rate of 73 percent (excluding sub-loans in grace period) was mainly the
result of poor lending by the former state banks, with a higher concentration in BCM, given the bank's
higher lending share relative to the other banks. No data were available from BCM and BPD regarding
the age and accumulation of arrears, or their proportion as a percentage of their total outstanding
portfolio. The negative impact of the large number of problem sub-loans on the banks' overall portfolio
was assumed to be relatively small because they constituted a small proportion of their total portfolio.
The two banks estimated about 67 percent of sub-loans in arrears were collectable. In contrast, BSTM
had a recovery rate of 100 percent, and ULC 99 percent.
41.    The repayment situation resulted from a number of factors. The firms' inability to repay
reflected the difficult economic environment prevailing during implementation. A large proportion
produced for the local markets. The low recovery rate was also due to poor appraisal of sub-projects,
lack of ex-post supervision by the PFIs leading to an inability to trace some sub-borrowers, a culture of
non-repayment of loans, reinforced by poor loan collection from the banks and a virtually non-
functioning legal enforcement system.
42.    The recovery performance also reflected a flaw in project design in that IDA did not have the
explicit power to suspend new commitments by PFIs who experienced poor loan collection performance.
Although the Project Agreement required independent annual audits of the banks, this requirement,
which was a legal covenant, was only complied with twice, once in 1992 and again in 1994 when IDA



10
first attempted to stop lending through the forner state banks. The first unqualified audits were
produced in 1996.
43.    Because of poor loan recovery, the rediscount mechanism set up under the project to recycle
repaid funds was never used, thereby increasing the small firms' dependency on the original credit line.
44.    The PFIs were responsible for assessing the sub-borrowers' creditworthiness and bore the credit
full risk. This was meant to ensure a thorough credit analysis and ex-post supervision of sub-projects.
Staff did not perform this normal commercial lending task satisfactorily because of insufficient staffing
resources and serious lack of technical skills, a legacy from years of state-directed credit allocation.
Staff compensated for this lack of skills by relying on IDA's or the apex unit's prior review of credit
applications.
45.    Neither assumption of full credit risk nor potential losses from bad loans were incentives strong
enough to ensure adequate credit risk assessment and commercially oriented lending from the banks. The
two largest lenders of the credit line were state entities which, for most of project execution, the
Government kept bailing out until their privatization.  Total assumption of their losses by the
Government amounted to the equivalent of US$93 million in 1993 under the IMF's program. The
Government injected an additional US$80 million equivalent to cover BCM's losses when the bank was
privatized. The amount of BPD's non-performing loans and other bad assets assumed by the Government
is not yet fully known, as it will be fully determined once the one-year period in which the new private
owners can turn over to the Government any losses discovered during that year has been completed.
46.   Characteristics of Sub-projects and Sub-loan Realization.
Appraisal Estimates      Actual Estimates
*  Number of Sub-projects                110-120                 134
*  Type of investment:
- new                                                          85 (63 percent)
- expansion                                                    10 (7 percent)
- rehabilitation                                               39 (29 percent)
*  Job creation:                         6,000                  5,029 (ex-ante)
- maintained                                                1,046
- new                                                       3,983
*  Average investment cost/job(US$)      4,800                  5,627 (ex-ante)
*  Average sub-loan size (US$)          250,000                211,194
Sub-loan size (US$'000)                    No. of sub-loans
1-49                                     29
50-99                                     37
100-249                                    36
250-499                                    17
500-999                                    12
>1,000                                     3
*  Average maturity                                        7 years
*  Average grace period                                    2 years
47.    Sub-Project Achievements.  Based on a sample of 30 sub-projects, ex-ante financial rates of
return were high in nominal terms, averaging 42 percent, compared to an appraisal estimate of 12
percent in real terms. A minimum economic rate of return of 12 percent (in constant terms) was to be
achieved for sub-projects above US$250,000. Neither the PFIs nor the apex unit calculated realized
returns and were not required to do so. Given the high number of problem sub-projects, the majority
may not be financially viable and expected returns may not be achieved.



11
48.    Firm  Size. To qualify as a small
and  medium   enterprise, firms were to          % f i    Total no. of sub-loans and value by firm size
employ no more than 200 workers (before    35%
expansion).  About 76 percent of sub-           30%                        r-nOota.lOvasue -F
borrowers employed  no  more than  50           25%      |total                         -L
workers (after expansion), with 40 percent    20%         mm
of their sub-loans adding to  less than          o 1              fn
100,000 each. Total value of their share         5%           I_
was   68   percent.  Very   small-scale          0v          l A
borrowers   (with    10-19   employees)              -                              g 0   0 Oo   A
accounted for a total of 41 sub-loans (31                                 irm size
percent), but only 18 percent share of the
funds. It is interesting to note that this    Source: Apex Unit.
group's repayment performance tended to be better.
Amott  Credit Denmnd b Year (in US$ illion)       20 -               .                              .
8G                                                15
7.0-                                              10
6.0-                                              5
5.0              _                                0   
4.0-             F]
5.0-
20 -n;
1.0  l2
0.0.                                                     +C-m2sieR
1991  1992   1993  1994   1995  1996        -25
Year                                lo93        2994        295         19
Source: Apex Unit.
49.    There seemed to be a positive relationship (correlation coefficient = .8) between credit demand
and the level of real interest rates, with a time lag. That is, higher subsidized rates resulted in higher
demand for investment in the following year. The time lag could be due to a delayed response to
changes in interest rates by the firms, the time required to prepare business plans, credit rationing, and
delays by the banks in processing firms' sub-loan requests. However, due to so few observations, this is
not statistically significant. Also, lack of a 1:1 relationship may be due to (a) firms' uncertainty with
respect to future changes in inflation and on-lent rates, and (b) firms not expected to repay. In this case,
firms made business decisions irrespective of the level of interest rates.
50.    Sectoral Impact. The manufacturing and industry sectors each accounted for 27 percent of both
total investment and the number of sub-loans. Agriculture and fishing accounted for 16 percent,
transport 14 percent, services 6 percent, tourism 9 percent, and mining 1 percent.
Inh.a  b..e  Z.m  bezi,
6%                                          a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~za~~2  
/-Tanspor l2Y
/ 9 14%   AS&FWh  Mining                                           . p
1%~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
nd us      0M a                                  f    1%N11    
Sectoral Distribution ofSubloans                  Regional Distribution of Subloans
Source: Apex unit.



12
51.   Regional Impact. About 55 percent of total sub-loans, both in terms of value and number, were in
Maputo. This seemingly high concentration ratio is in fact lower than might have been expected, given
that, traditionally, economic activities in Mozambique have tended to be highly centralized in or around
the capital city. To some extent, the project's decentralization objective was achieved.
52.   Employment Generation. By sector,
expected job creation was the highest in the  %ofdor
industrial  and   manufacturing   sectors,  za o
accounting for a total of 1,733 (of which  160
1,357 new jobs) and 1,430 jobs (of which  i,xo
1,231 new jobs), respectively. Expected job   wo
creation, by  type  of sub-project, was   4*
consistent with    uses  of funds. New
investments accounted for 63 percent of total                 sew        Tomn   T    an.
investment and were expected to generate 50
percent of total jobs. However, the high credit
demand  for new  investments  was  not                ExpectedJobCreation byLoan Size
consistent with the state of the economy for  no. of jobs      (in US$ '000)
which  a higher investment demand  for   1,60
business expansion or rehabilitation should  -4.200 -
have been expected. With respect to borrower   soo
size, expected job creation was the highest in    400- [         H
the 100-249 employee range, with a total      o 0l
1-49  50-99  100-249  250-499  500-999  >1,000
estimate of 1,404 jobs.                                         Loan size
Source: Apex Unit.
53.   UJnfortunately, no ex-post figures were available, except from BSTM which confirmed that the
estimatedl number of jobs created was realized. The combined total of the bank's figures and an 8-firm
sample visited by the ICR mission gives an actual number of jobs created of 664, for a total sub-loan
amount of US$3,044,419, making an average investmnent cost/job of US$4,585. Thus, about 10% of IDA
funds created 664 jobs. If all loans were good loans, the actual total number of jobs created would be
close to the appraisal estimate of 6,000. While it remains to be seen how the total number of firm
beneficiaries will perform over a longer period of time under the current much improved economy, the
present uncertain status of many firms tend to make the overall employment creation questionable.
54.   Environmental Issues. There were no major environmental issues related to the implementation
of sub-projects. In the few sub-projects where this could have been the case, the issues were dealt with
by IDA either during the prior review process or the supervision missions to ensure compliance with
project requirements.
55.   Current Status of sub-Projects. Of a total of 134 firm beneficiaries, 22 (16 percent) are
considered profitable, 92 (69 percent) are operating with difficulty, and six (4 percent) went out of
business and are in judicial collection. 18 firms have negotiated an extension of the grace period because
of cash flow problems.
56.    VVhile economic and infrastructure conditions were important contributing factors, the major
problems faced on the firm level were lack of technical know-how, lack of production management and
managerial skills, and poor market assessments. Technical appraisal of sub-project applications tended to
emphasize the mechanics of pro-forma balance sheets and cash flow analysis and did not give sufficient
weight to more qualitative factors, such as adequate management skills and market assessments, and the



13
applicant's ability to operate a small business. Firms' problems in these areas are confirmed by the
banks in their latest supervision report.
57.   In some cases, however, there appears to be little correlation between firms' profitability and
their loan repayment performance. Non-repayment of sub-loans tended to be encouraged by lax loan
collection by the former state banks and irnplicitly encouraged by a virtually non-functioning legal
enforcement system. In other cases, overleveraged firms, unable to obtain additional loans, included as
part of their retained earnings for expansion or working capital what should have been used to service
their debt.
58.    Of the eight firms visited as part of the ICR mission, four were considered profitable, of which
three were larger, well-established enterprises. Of these firms, two were making payment on their sub-
loan--one refinanced its sub-loan with a short-term commercial loan at more advantageous terms. The
other two were financing their business expansion or working capital with their loan payments. The
other four firms were new, smaller businesses operating with difficulty and unable to service their debt
obligations on a regular basis. All four were experiencing market-related and/or management problems.
Furthermore, the firms complained of the lack of transparency in the sub-loan approval process,
suggesting possible corruption.
(b)    Rehabilitating the banking system's intermediary rolefor term lending
59.    The Institutional Strengthening Component (US$3.43 million equivalent) was designed to
rebuild the banking system's capability for term financing, and help establish (a) a local capacity for
business advisory services to SMEs, and (b) a local permanent structure to monitor IDA or other donor
future lines of credit. Total disbursement for this component was US$3.23 million equivalent. It is
interesting to note the imbalance between the credit line component, which represented 89 percent of
total credit, and this component, on which the project's success critically depended, which represented
only 11 percent.
60.    Provisions for the training of banking staff were clearly inadequate, in light of their low level of
skills identified at preparation. The training program, while useful, was not sufficient in duration, as the
PFIs received, prior to effectiveness, a total of only six-week training and three workshops of two weeks
each, in the areas of project appraisal and processing. The training program was funded by UNDP.
US$0.5 million was provided for additional training under the project for a total of 50 staff from
commercial banks, the apex unit, and IDIL. Commercial bank staff indicated they found the training
useful, but those who received training were subsequently transferred to other positions within the banks.
Of the 46 staff trained, only two are left in B3PD credit operations department, and one at BCM. Of the
two people trained in the apex unit, only one is left, the other staff was transferred to another division of
the central bank. The project provided for early, limited pre-operational training programs, but nothing
to correct the actual problems that emerged during implementation. Furthermore, to provide training
only to credit department staff when the two state banks had many serious weaknesses outside the credit
department could only impair their ability to iimplement the line of credit.
61.    A banking institute was established, in 1994 under the ongoing Financial Sector Capacity
Building Project. The institute includes on-going training support to commercial bank staff as part of its
activities, with mixed success.
62.    The project also provided financial cassistance to enterprises to prepare business plans. Firms
could use the services of private local consultants or IDIL, the Government's already established
business services bureau. Fees charged for services could be financed by sub-loans. Provisions for this
fundamental aspect were also clearly inadecluate. Lack of local capacity in this area reinforced the



14
banks' dependency on IDA or the apex unit's prior review. Low quality of IDIL services was the major
factor for low demand for its services.
63.   In 1995, IDA suspended disbursement in support of IDIL, pending an independent audit of its
operations. In line with project requirements, IDIL was to charge an up front fee for its services. These
fees were to gradually cover its operating costs for the bureau to become self-sufficient. After five years
in operation, IDIL could not account for the cash revenues received, hence IDA request for the audit, to
which IDIL never agreed. IDIL is currently operating on a government-funded budget.
64.   An apex unit was established in the central bank to manage the credit line with the objective to
create a long-term structure for future IDA lines of credit, or those of other donors. The unit was initially
independent, operating with its own budget and staff, and was later absorbed by the central bank in 1994.
Throughout project execution, the apex unit confined its role to that of an administrator of funds. In line
with project requirements, the apex unit devoted most of its time to evaluating applications and ensuring
conformity with Bank procurement guidelines. These responsibilities which duplicated normal day-to-
day functions of commercial banks represented an additional step in the approval process, causing
further delays and increasing the sub-borrowers' final costs. Because the PFIs bore the credit risks, the
apex unit did not see sub-project monitoring and supervision as part of its responsibilities. Another
reason was the automatic debit mechanism built into the project which allowed the central bank to debit
the PFIs' current account on the same due dates as those on individual sub-loans, irrespective of the
firm's capacity to repay. Currently, the apex unit is managing sub-loans of the ongoing Industrial
Enterprise Restructuring Project and other donors' lines of credit.
65.   Procurement. In line with project requirements, firms were to obtain three independent
quotations for goods to be procured under the IDA Credit. Given the small size and nature of their
requirements, and the limited local market, small firms found it difficult to meet IDA's procurement
requirement. This requirement proved neither economic nor efficient, as firms sought the required
quotations in neighboring countries or abroad, resulting in delayed processing. The requirement also
tended to add to costs, as suppliers charged for price quotations.
G. Project Sustainability
66.   The project was implemented under chaotic conditions, both at the macroeconomic level and in
terms of disruptions of key infrastructure (roads, utilities, market distribution channels, etc.) The project,
as designed and carried out under these conditions, is not sustainable. Changes which would pave the
way for macroeconomic stabilization started to take place in 1995, with 1996-1997 as the transition
years. It remains to be seen how the firm beneficiaries will perform over a given time horizon, or the
survival rate, under the current much improved economic conditions. Only then can true rates of return,
both financial and economic, be measured, hence the project's impact on the firm beneficiaries. The
project's sustainability in terms of financing productive capacity is thus uncertain. The project's
sustainability in terms of building the PFIs' capacity to provide ongoing term lending is unlikely.
67.    Sustainability of future operations rests on three main areas. (a) sustained macroeconomic
stability to remove the need for Government subsidies to guarantee interest and exchange rate stability
and promote longer term growth; (b) sustained progress in financial sector development to further
competition, to improve banking supervision, and to increase efficiency in domestic resource
mobilization and allocation. SMEs' increased reliance on internal resources (their own equity and retail
bank contributions), as opposed to external resources (IDA, Government subsidies), will ultimately attest
to sustainabiility; and (c) further actions in private sector development in the legal and administrative
framework to change outdated pre-independence laws and regulations.



15
H. Bank Performance
68.   Preparation and Appraisal. The project was prepared and implemented during a period of
fundamental economic and institutional reforms, as well as a highly uncertain political situation
following the aftermath of 16 years of a civil war which ended in 1992. Results of the Business
Environment Study, which provided the basis for project design, were thus highly tentative. While the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) correctly higlhlighted the study's limitations, the project was nevertheless
prepared on the Bank's optimistic assumptions as to the pace of the reform program, and neither the
study nor the SAR were complemented by sufficient financial sector work. With the benefit of
hindsight, the project should have been substantially delayed and/or designed as a small pilot operation,
as opposed to a full-fledged investment project, given the uncertainty as to the pace of the reform
program, lack of knowledge about the SME sub-sector, and the country's very low institutional capacity.
69.   During appraisal, emphasis was placed on setting up the credit line, settling BM's lending
arrears, recapitalizing the banking system as a whole, and establishing the apex unit. The fact that it was
necessary to recapitalize the banks to be eligible to participate in the line of credit was symptomatic of
their uncertain status. Project preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory.
70.   Major weaknesses in project design were (a) failure to take into account the country's unsuitable
macroeconomic and business environment; (b) lack of explicit links between project performance and
sectoral policies and IDA ongoing commitments; (c) lack of monitoring performance indicators for the
commercial banks and for sub-projects; and (d) training and technical assistance inputs which were not
commensurate with the country's institutional capacity requirements. In addition, project design would
have benefited from experiences and lessonis drawn from other Bank lines of credit elsewhere, to the
extent these can be transferred.
71.   Supervision.  Project supervision tended to focus on improving the slow rate of disbursement.
The two main causes identified during the November 1993 project mid-term review were unduly long
approval processes and unfavorable spreads for the PFIs. At that time, only 27 percent of total project
funds, compared with projected 48 percent, had been disbursed. Amendments were introduced to correct
the slow rate by: (a) increasing the free-limit ceiling, from US$250,000 to US$500,000 to decentralize
more approvals of sub-projects to the apex unit, and (b) reducing the central bank's servicing fee to
correct earlier disincentives to the banks. Steps were also taken to address an accumulation of non-
performing loans. However, little emphasis was placed on the commercial banks' continued eligibility to
participate in the IDA on-lending program.
72.   IDA's decision to increase the free limit on sub-projects to improve slow disbursements on the
sub-loans at a time when the quality of the sub-projects, as evidenced by poor repayment records, was
relatively poor reflected a blatant disregard for the impact of the line of credit on the PFIs. The banking
sector's role was then essentially viewed as a "non-real" delivery mechanism to support the real sector,
with little inherent importance in itself. For the first five years of project implementation, IDA
supervision was deficient overall.
73.   In the last years of implementation, following a change in task management, focus of supervision
started to shift from disbursement rate to PF][s' portfolio performance. Measures were introduced with a
view to improving that performance. IDA requested, with little success, that the two former state banks
develop action plans to improve and monitor collections of non-paying loans. In 1996, IDA suspended
their participation pending achievement of a 10 percent recovery rate. Delays in sub-loan approvals
were also reduced, thereby reducing the final costs of funds to firms. These measures, although sound
and needed, came too late as, by then, 75 percent of total funds had been disbursed, and the project was
in its last year. Closing the project then was< discussed but did not materialize because the Government



16
argued of an adverse impact on the small firrns, given the scarcity of term credit. As more private banks
and two leasing companies were entering the banking sector and expressed interest or participated in the
on-lending program, the project was kept open. Other ways of providing term finance to SMEs, other
than through the formal banking sector, were also explored.  For the last two years of project
implementation, IDA supervision was satisfactory.
E. Borrower Performance
74.   ThrougL3ut implementation, the Government's inadequate control over the former two state
banks was largely responsible for the macroeconomic instability, as well as their poor loan recovery
performance, which prevailed until project closing. This instability in turn contributed to the wide
fluctuations in inflation, leading to the need to subsidize interest rates on the sub-loans, and to
recapitalize the banks.  Project performance would have benefited from the apex unit assuming a
stronger monitoring and supervision of sub-projects and, to this end, establishing better coordination
with the PFIs. Finally, frequent changes in management adversely affected the unit's proper functioning,
as each new director had to learn about its operations.
75.   Comp?liance with legal covenants and audits. Compliance with legal covenants was generally
satisfactory, except with respect to interest rate policy and submission of annual audits. However,
although most covenants sought to address major issues in the banking system (settlement of banks'
lending arrears, action program to rehabilitate the banking system and upgrade the banks' accounting
capabilities), these issues were addressed only once and after Credit effectiveness, or no concrete actions
were implemented beyond preparing the action plan. The end result was that, despite satisfactory one-
time compliance with the covenants, the problems kept re-surfacing since generic issues and causes of
the banking sector's poor performance were not addressed. The commercial banks' lending arrears were
a recurrent problem throughout project execution, including under the IDA line of credit, although
somewhat masked by grace periods on loans. The Government recapitalized the banks three times.
Bank staff accounting skills were deficient. Compliance with financial statement audits was not
satisfactory in terns of timely submission of audit reports. Qualified audit reports were not dealt with by
the Government, despite IDA's expressed concerns.
J. Assessment of Outcome
76.   Overall project outcome is unsatisfactory.
*  Relevance. The project was relevant but untimely as the objectives were unsuited to the country's
conditions.
*  Efficacy. 1. The project's transferred resources to relieve a scarcity in term funds did not support
viable investment projects, as evidenced by the currently high default rate on the sub-loans.
2. T}e project's institution-building objective was not achieved. Impact of technical
assistance and training provided to: (a) PFIs, to develop skills in credit risk assessment and project
appraisal, was limited; (b) apex unit, to build a permanent local structure, although more successful,
was nonetheless not sustainable; and (c) IDIL, to build a local capacity for business advisory
services, was limited.
3. The project did not assist the Government in achieving a more rational interest rate
structure. Throughout most of project execution, in the absence of the necessary pre-conditions in
the banking system for interest rates to be market-determined, rates remained administered, and
negative in real terms, discouraging domestic resource mobilization, perpetuating a scarcity
situation., and adversely affecting the project's sustainability. Subsidized rates may also have had the



17
effect of leading to larger loans than necessary, attracting marginal borrowers, and eliminating
necessary spreads for making lending viable to the PFIs.
4. Because of poor project results, the project did not assist the Government in
formulating an industrial policy. Although progress of policy reform was to be monitored as part of
the annual project implementation review, funds earmarked for studies were never used for that
purpose.
*  Cost-Effectiveness. Implementation of the project came at a significant net cost to the economy.
Negative real interest rates on sub-loans resulted in a net transfer of resources to firms. If the
majority of problem sub-projects does not prove viable investments, the resulting subsidies could
add to the country's already excessive debt burden, further worsening its debt service payment
capacity. While not quantified, a high number of sub-projects may have had negative rates of return,
and even those which will survive are likely to have low, if not negative, rates of return because of
the long delays in project benefits. The former state banks would have incurred substantial losses on
the sub-loans had it not been for Government's recapitalizations before their privatization. If the
banks' estimated recovery rate of 670/o on the sub-loans does not rmaterialize, and if the Government
no longer covers their losses, they stand to sustain substantial losses on the sub-loans.
+  Ratings.  Financing of viable projects: unsatisfactory
Institution-building: unsawisfactory
Interest rate policy: unsatisfactory
Industrial policy: unsatisj2ctory
K. Future Operations
77.   Measures to build on reforms already achieved under prior adjustment operations are part of the
proposed Economic Management Reform Credit (FY99). The EMRC will particularly focus on fiscal
reforms and on improving the business environment to foster private-sector-led growth. Fiscal reforms
will include financial deepening and better coordination between monetary and fiscal policies, and
private sector measures will aim to establish a legal and administrative framework in line with market-
driven economic structures. A follow-up i:nvestment operation is also slated for FY99.
78.   Notwithstanding substantial achievements in macroeconomic policy and priivatization programs
over the last five years, private-sector growth response has been modest, especially with respect to local
Mozambican-owned firms. The proposed Mozambique Enterprise Development Project (the PoDE) will
aim to improve the business environment and accelerate broad-based economic growth through capacity
building of private firms and institutions.  Particular emphasis will be placed on developing
Mozambican-owned firms' export potential and linking domestic suppliers with foreign investors.
Specifically, the project will: (a) assist enterprises in raising the technical skills of their management and
workers; (b) provide financial resources for export development and enterprise technology upgrading;
and (c) improve private and Governmerit institutions' capability to deliver support services to the
business community.
L. Lessons Learned
* Implementation of this project confirms the validity of OD 8.30 which were not rigorously followed
during project implementation, particularly with respect to term lending under high inflationary
periods and by weak institutions, and distortions created by directed credit and targeted credit
subsidies, in particular interest rate subsidies. Lines of credit are not useful tools when implemented
under unstable economic and business conditions because risks associated with new investment are
too large.



18
* Lines of credit are not the appropriate instruments to address sectoral policies. Lines of credit are
most likely to be adversely affected by macro and sectoral distortions which are best addressed in an
overall macroeconomic policy framework. Continuing commitments under FILs should be linked to
the effective implementation and maintenance of a satisfactory policy framework, a justifiable
precondition for a IDA line of credit as well as for its successful implementation.
* It is very difficult to stop commitments under a project which has no clearly established ongoing
conditionalities once the project has been launched. Ongoing sub-project commitments should be
expliciltly linked to project performance. Project implementation design should include explicit
monitoring performance indicators to assess the continued eligibility of financial institutions and
other entities, public or private, sub-project performance, and technical assistance impact.
* It is very difficult to take a financially poorly performing bank with non-commercial objectives and
weak management--characteristics most likely to be found in state-owned than private banks--and
turn it into an effective financial intermediary.
*  The financial sector should not be viewed essentially as a "non-real" delivery mechanism to support
the real sector. Prospects for success are poor when PFIs are unsound and lack the skills and
commercial orientation necessary to make good credit decisions.
*  Implementation of the project raises the usefulness of "quick-fix"-type lending operations in highly
uncertain conditions. When local capacity is low, and/or fundamental economic and sectoral reforms
are underway, a small pilot project and more prolonged training programs are more suitable than a
full-scale operation to fully take into account the time factor during the transition years, and adapt
and build knowledge about the (sub)sectors involved. The pilot project should include a simple,
straightforward, and focused approach to reduce the final costs to the banks and firms. The approach
should also be sufficiently flexible to allow for changes as needed in project execution.
* Technical assistance to build SMEs' capacity is as important as their access to capital. This technical
assistance need not be a supplement to sub-loans, but could be a stand-alone component. It should
be demand-driven.
* Interest rates should be variable to allow the pricing of capital to be market-determined and to reduce
interest rate risk for lenders and borrowers.  During high inflationary periods, an indexing
mechanism might be best, as opposed to Government-adjusted rates, although experience such as in
Brazil has shown that indexing tends to perpetuate inflation. An indexing mechanism might also be
applied to Government's fee for currency risk coverage, if the Government is to bear the cost of
foreign exchange. Proceeds from the fee should be deposited in a fund in a commercial bank to earn
interest.
* The apex unit should be managed under a management contract arrangement. This is especially
crucial if the objective of setting up an apex unit is to transfer the monitoring and supervision aspects
closer ito the financial internediaries and final beneficiaries. Monitoring indicators should be set to
assess the unit's performance. Finally, in addition to monitoring a database on sub-loans and
projects, the apex unit should possess or develop an analytical capability to assess the project's
impact on an ongoing basis. This would allow introducing needed changes in the project scope
and/or design throughout implementation. Under this project, the apex unit is meant to be a "sunset
organization".



19
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial    Partial      Negligible       Not
Applicable
Macro Policies
Sectoral Policies
Financial Objectives                                             i
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction                                                i
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives                                         i
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability             Likely             Unlikely         Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                   Highly           Satisfactory       Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower Performance               Hlighly          Satisfactory        Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome              Ilighly          Satisfactory        Deficient
Satiisfactory



20
Table 2: Related Bank Programs, Credits, and Sectoral Studies
Credits                                  Purpose                      Year      Status
Preceding Operations
*   Economic Action Program          *   Restore investment and economic             1984    Completed
services for immediate production results.
*   Economic Rehabilitation Program                                                  1987    Completed
(ERP) (1987-89)
*   Second Rehabilitation Credit    *   Reduce macroeconomic imbalances and     1987    Completed
price, and exchange rate distortions.
*   Thi rd Rehabilitation Credit  *   Improve foreign exchange allocation,      1989    Completed
budgetary policy, price and distribution policy,
reform trade tariff structure, and restructure
state enterprises.
Following Operations
*   Industrial Enterprise Restructuring    *   Restore production and efficiency in a  1989   Ongoing
Project                              selected group of major industrial and
agro-industrial enterprises.
*   Economiic Recovery Credit        *   Improve foreign exchange allocation and     1992    Completed
management, establish a legal and
regulatory framework to restructure
banking sector and initiate privatization of
state enterprises.
*   Second Economic Recovery         *   Strengthen fiscal and monetary policy,      1994    Completed
Credit                               support interlinked program of enterprise
and financial sector reforms.
*   Financial Sector Capacity Building    *   Support the overall enterprise and financial  1994  Ongoing
Project                              reform program.
*   Third Economic Recovery Credit   *   Support the privatization of state-owned   1997      Ongoing
banks, rationalization of the tariff and
indirect tax regime, budget management
reform, liberalization of the cashew market,
and private concessioning of CFM.
Sector Studies
*   Development of Industrial Policy  *   Study of broad industrial policy within the  1990    Completed
and Reform of the Business           context of the changed business environment
Environment                         following the ERP reforms.
*   Financial Sector Study           *   Study on financial sector to recommend     1992    Completed
improvements and outlines sequence of
reforms.
*   Impediments to Industrial Sector  *   Study to identify impediments to industrial  1995    Completed
Recovery                            recovery, assess growth potential, and
propose strategy.



21
T'able 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Planned              Actual
Identification - Initial IEPS                   4/26/88             4/26/88
Final EPS                                       1/18/88             1/18/88
Preparation
Preappraisal
Appraisal                                       4/20/89             4/20/89
Negotiations                                    10/5/89             10/5/89
Letter of Development Policy (if applicalble)    n.a.                 n.a.
Board Presentation                             12/20/89             12/20/89
Signing                                         2/5/90              2/5/90
Effectiveness                                   6/8/90              6/8/90
Mid-term Review                                  8/94                8/94
Project Completion                              6/30/96             12/31/96
Credit Closing                                 12/31/96             12/31/97
Table 4: IDA Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ million)
FY90   FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96   FY97   FY98    Total
Appraisal            0.25   4.68    4.5    6.0    6.0    7.0   3.57    -                   32.0
Estimate
Actual                2.5    0.4    0.7    3.0    6.1    6.9    4.8        7.2      0.4    32.0
Actual as a % of    1,040%   9%    16%    50%   102%   100%   134%         -              100%
Estimated                               .                                      _
Date of Final
Disbursement     April 17,1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Ky ImplementtinIndict r in >SA R                      A.-.-l Es0timate    Aictua Estimates
A. Credit Component
2. No. of Sub-projects                                    110-120               134
3. Employment generation                                   6,000           5,029 (ex-ante)
4. Repayment rates on sub-loans                                                 16%
B. TA Component
1. Training of PFI Participants                             50                  50
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(see above table)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
none carried out.



22
Table 8A: Project Costs
: .  ,    -Itemns  - -  -   Appraisal Estimates /I         Actuial'2
-___.-;___-__.__.__--.____-__.__.               (US$  million)             ( -lUS$milion)
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign    Total
costs   costs    costs   costs    costs      costs
A. Enterprise Financing Component           10.5    35.57   46.07    56.7        20.2    76.9
IDA                                      -      28.57   28.57      8.6       20.2    28.8
EIB, UTNDP /2                            -         7.0     7.0       -          -        -
Enterprises                              5.5     -         5.5   22.0           -    22.0
PFIs                                     3.0     -         3.0   26.1           -    26.1
Government /3                            2.0      -         2.0    n.a.          -        -
B. Institutional Strengthening Component     0.2     3.93    4.13        -        3.7      3.7
IDA                                               3.43    3.43       -        3.2      3.2
UNDF'                                              0.5     0.5       -        0.5      0.5
Government                               0.2         -     0.2       -          -        -
TOTAL                                      10.70    39.50   50.20   56.7         23.9    80.6
/1 Includes donors' cofmancing.
/2 Includes only UNDP. EIB and Caisse Fran,aise provided parallel financing.
/3 n.a.: not available. Government's contribution to project costs (salaries of apex personnel, and the operating
costs of the unit when it became part of the central bank) was not available for preparation of the ICR.
Table 8B: Project Financing
|      -7-:S,our,ce    --  Appraisal Estimates         Actual Estimates
;:__ '_E__ -_'_'__ -_.__ ._._'__'_-_' ______(USS million)            ( -US$  million)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign    Total
costs   costs    costs   costs   costs    costs
IDA                                               32.0    32.0    8.6        23.4      32.0
European Investrnent Bank, UNDP          -          7.5     7.5    -        0.5 /1      0.5
Enterprises, PFIs                         8.5     -         8.5   48.1       -         48.1
Government                                2.2     -         2.2    n.a.      -         -
TOTAL                     10.7      39.5    50.2   56.7       23.9      80.6
/1 Includes UNDP only.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Indicator                       Appraisal Estimate              Latest Estimate
1. Line of Credit: ERR             - All sub-projects with ERR above 12%      not available
FRR                - minimum 12%                             not available



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original      Revised                       Description of Covenant
Covenant       Present      Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Section         Type          Status         Date          Date    l                                                                            Comments
Credit Agreenmnt
3.04           10             C             06/30/91       -             Bank of Mozambique to prepare an action program for separation
of central and commercial banking functions and implement it
thereafter.
3.05           9              C             12/31/91       -             Govemment to complete an action program to settle lending
arrears of commercial banks, and implement it thereafter.
3.05           9              CD            06/30/92       06/30/93      Government to complete an action program for the rehabilitation
12/31/94      of the banking system, including its recapitalization, performance
benchmarks, and extension of competition, and implement
thereafter
3.06a          2              C             3/31/91        -             Government and BM to review jointly with IDA progress on    Interest rates were brought to positive
achieving positive weighted average real lending interest rates.  levels in 1991, but fluctuated between
positive and negative levels in real terms,
until their liberalization in 1996.
4.01           1              C             March of       -             Government to furnish IDA external audit report of statement of    1996 audit received.
I             I             | each year     _            [ expenditures and special account transactions.
Project Agreement
2.08a          I              C             03/31/91       -             Review of PFIs' accounting capabilities.                    _
2.08 b         I              C             03/31/91       -             BM to prepare action program to strengthen PFIs' accounting                                               W
capabilities, including work required, resources needed, design of
training program, and list of equipment and materials.
2.08c          l              C             03/31/91                     BM to review jointly with IDA progress in implementation of
above action program.
3.01b           1             C             09/30/92                     BM to furnish IDA certified copies and audit report of PFIs'  Not consistently complied with by the
I_________  I________   I________  _________  _________  financial statements.                                         PFIs, nor reinforced by BMAIDA.
Covenant types:                                                                      Present status:
I . Accounts/audits                                                                  C = covenant complied with.
2. Financial performance/revenue generation for beneficiaries                        CD = complied with after delay
3. Flow and utilization of project funds.                                            CP = complied with partially
4. Counterpart funding.                                                              NC = not complied with.
5. Management aspect of the project or executing agency.
9. Monitoring, review and reporting.
10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9.
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetauy or other resource allocation.
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action.



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title             Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OD 8.30: Financial Sector Operations   Lack of compliance with:
- macroeconomic environment
- fihancial sector policies, in particular interest rates and
targeted subsidized credit
- legal and regulatory framework
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle           Planned (weeks)                  Actual (weeks)
Weeks         US$ '000         Weeks         US$ '000
Through Appraisal                   n.a.            n.a.           38.3            109.0
Through Board                       n.a.            n.a.            6.4            17.0
Supervision                         n.a.            n.a.           202.3           515.8
Completion                          15.0            35.2           15.0            35.2
n.a.: notavailable.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions /1
Project
Activity     Month/Year   Days in fields   No. of Persons  Specialized Staff Skills   Ratings
Pre-apprafisal                                                                             n.a
Appraisal            -              -               -                                      n.a.
Supervision 1      11/90            5               2                                       S
Supervision 2       3/91           10               I                   E                   S
Supervision 3       8/91            5               2                   E                   S
Supervision 4      12/91            5               2                   E                   S
Supervision 5      11/92           15               3                   E                   S
Supervision 6       3/93           10               1                   E                   S
Supervision 7       6/93           25               3                  E,F                  S
Supervision 8      11/93           25               4                  E,F                  S
Supervision 9       7/94           n.a.             2                   E                   S
Supervision 10      3/95           15               2                PSD, F                 S
Supervision 11      7/95            5               1                 PSD                   S
Supervision 12     12/95           15               3                 PSD                   S
Supervision 13      3/96           15               2                 PSD                  U
Supervision 14      8/96           10               2                 PSD                  U
Supervision 15      3/97           20               1                 PSD                  U
Supervision 16      5/97           18               1                 PSD                  U
Supervision 17      9/97           19               2                PSD, 0                U
Completion         12/97           14               2                PSD, 0                U
E = Economist                                                N.A. = not applicable
F = Financial Economist                                      U= Unsatisfactory
0 = Operations Officer/Analyst                               S = Satisfactory
CO = Country Officer
/I Best estimates based on Form 590s.



25
APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,(Credit 2082-MZ)
IDA Mission - Implemeintation Completion Report - December 1L997
This is a draft evaluation summary of the Implementation Completion Report on the Small
and Medium Scale Project (Cr. 2082-M[Z). [Note: figures are preliminary estimates and subject to
revisions.]
Obje,ctives
The Small and Medium Scale Project was designed to support the Government of
Mozambique's policy to develop the industrial sector by stimulating long-term investment,
starting with small and medium sized enterprises. The project was an integral part of the ERP
and sought to fill a credit supply gap for term financing (mostly for imported capital
investments) while reforms of the financial sector were underway. This credit was to be directed
to specific sectors through a two-tier mechanism and subsidized by the Government. To
complement that objective, the project also sought to rehabilitate the capacity of the banking
system to channel resources to productive sectors.
Achievement of Objectives
Participation and collection performance of the Financial Institutions (PFIs). At the
time the Credit was approved in 1989, Mozambique's banking sector was dominated by state-
owned banks, mainly BCM and BPD. Since then, the banking sector has been privatized. To the
three original PFIs--BCM, BPD and BSTM, two others have recently been added, BIM and
ULC. The PFIs' lending share is: BCM (70%), BPD (16%), ULC (8%), BSTM (5%), and BIM
(1%). BCM's predominant lending share may be explained by the fact that it was the bank
which traditionally serviced the selected sectors. The banks' collection performance is poor for
the former state-owed banks and satisfactory for the privately owned PFIs. BCM has the highest
concentration of bad loans, since it absorbed the majority of the funds and given its low loan
recovery (52% are defaulting). BCM's new management is currently reviewing the situation to
decide on a course of action on a case-by-case basis. BPD's performance seems to be
improving, and the bank's new management has started to take legal action against defaulting
firms.
As of now, approximately US$32.5 million of the total IDA Credit has been disbursed,
leaving of a balance of about US$3.3 million. The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed at
the time of closing.



26
The causes of BCM's and BPD's arrears situation vary, ranging from long average
processing time for subprojects (it takes about 6-9 months from the time a client presents a
subproject proposal to a bank for financing until the subproject actually starts implementation,
resulting in rescheduling of grace periods which increases the client's interest payments),
inadequate technical appraisal of subprojects, irregular supervision, and no efforts in loan
collection from non-paying customers when the banks were still state-owned. In the case of
BPD, this was reinforced by the bank's former management's decision not to invest any of the
bank's own funds in a subproject. The processing time situation applies not only to BCM and
BPD, but to the other PFIs as well. Here too, the causes are many, ranging from the country's
own customs procedures to lengthy import process from abroad, and also the Bank's own
procurement and disbursement requirements.
The DCA should have included monitoring and performance indicators, a clearly
stipulated maintenance of loan collection ratio and conditions under which disbursements from
the line of credit would be suspended, and action plans for improved performance. The fact that
the Central Bank debited the banks' account automatically was not an effective measure, in and
of itself, to ensure that the banks adopt a more commercially oriented approach to credit-risk
management, as BCM and BPD were state-owned banks.
Firm-level and Subproject Achievements. An estimated 61% of the sub-loans were made
for new projects, 31% for rehabilitation, and 8% for expansion. It is difficult to assess if the
subprojects have achieved their projected economic and financial rates of return because none of
the PFIs calculates ex-post rates of return. The same applies for job creation, so that any
assessment to estimate the social impact of the project in terms of employment generation would
be based on estimates at the time of subproject appraisal. There is nonetheless some consensus
among the PFIs and the PMU that the social impact objective has been met to some extent, and
that the bad loans situation of BCM and BPD, by far the problem banks, does not necessarily
mean that defaulting firms are not operating or even profitable.
Sectoral and Regional Impact. The sectoral distribution is as follows: 46% of total
lending went to industry, 14% to transport, 13% to services, 7% to tourism, 9% to fishing, 5% to
agro-industry, 2% to mining, and 4% other. In terms of regional distribution, Maputo benefited
from about 70% of total lending, Sofala 12%, and the remaining 18% went to the other regions.
An attempt was made during project preparation to reach the Beira region with the establishment
of one of the two small business advisory services units. This did not materialize due in part to
IDIL's poor performance and the resulting low demand for its services.
On-lending Rates, Credit Ceilings, and Government Subsidies. Under the terms of the
project, on-lending rates were to be variable market rates, the Government was to bear the
foreign exchange risk, and the commercial banks the credit risk on on-lent funds. During project
negotiations, the Government agreed to review annually with the Bank progress on achieving
positive real on-lending interest rates, terms and conditions. A controlled lending rates and
foreign exchange rates regime prevailed in Mozambique until 1996. From 1990-94, commercial
lending rates could not exceed 48%, and 46% from 1994 until the liberalization of interest rates
in 1996. Those rates were below inflation rates. At the same time, the Government imposed
credit ceilings on the banks. The Government gave the IDA line of credit, as well as other
donors' lines of credit, a preferential rate below the market lending rates to induce firms to
borrow from those lines. The banks used the line of credit to either complement their credit
restrictions, or more recently to have access to local currency in short supply. However, the IDA



27
line of credit did not prove attractive at first to the commercial banks because the spread was not
high enough to cover their administrative costs for the sub-loans, after the PMU had retained its
percentage for management fee and to cover the Government's "insurance" on foreign exchange
fluctuations. The split was later changed to 50:50, when the Bank complained of slow
disbursements on the credit line.
Any benefits derived from this project should be weighted against the implicit costs to
the Government associated with the subsidies on interest rates and foreign exchange. The need
to subsidize those two rates to spur investment may have been warranted at the time the Small
and Medium Enterprises project was designed, but should be reassessed in the current economic
context. Since the Government may abscrb all or part of the losses of the previously state-owned
banks as part of the negotiations of the privatization process, that cost should also be added to
the subsidies costs.
PMU/commercial banks relationship, and PMU's performance. The PMU maintains a
good relationship with the commercial banks and assumes its responsibility of record checking
and keeping satisfactorily. However, the PMU should have been more active in ensuring that it
receives regularly the supervision reports from the commercial banks, especially when the banks
stopped sending them altogether.
World Bank's Special Account (S'A) and procurement procedures. The SA was opened
with Citibank-New York for the letters of credit for imports. As already mentioned above, this
arrangement was one of the factors which added to the lengthy process. Another factor was the
Bank's three quotations requirement, since in the majority of cases when this requirement
applied, there was only one local supplier, and in order to comply, the firm had to inquire outside
of Mozambique, often in neighboring countries, which led to additional delays and costs. The
Bank's internal procedures should be flexible enough so that they easily adapt to the needs of the
private sector. As they stand now, those internal procedures are too slow and cumbersome for
the fast pace characteristic of the private sector, and the client is the only one to ultimately bear
the cost.
Maputo, December 1997



28
APPENDIX B
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2082-MZ)
Borrower's contribution to the ICR (translated version)
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT ON THE SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PDPME)'
Introduction
The Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise Development Project was approved in 1990 as
part of ithe series of current economic and social policy measures designed to rehabilitate the
national economy. The specific objective of the project was to ensure the active participation of
economic operators throughout the country, which was to be promoted via the government's plan
to offer a system of incentives to small and medium-sized businessmen and small and medium-
scale enterprises to make them more dynamic. The project was intended to finance the mining,
agro-food, and manufacturing industries, and the tourism, transportation, equipment repair,
canning, and services sectors. Since this project ended on December 31, 1996, negotiations were
undertaken with the World Bank to extend the period for using this line of credit for another
year, to enable the project disbursements to be completed. This report aims to provide a
comprehensive survey of the impact of the project during its implementation period.
1.1.   Project Objectives
The overall project objectives consisted essentially in the following:
*  Increase domestic production and reduce dependency on the outside world, by import
substitution and the growth and diversification of exports;
*  Increase the number of jobs, and thereby reduce delinquency, especially on the periphery of
urban areas;
* Renovate, modernize, and expand the installed productive capacity and facilitate the
emergence of new industries;
*  Mobilize private savings, and promote their use in productive sectors;
*  Inform and educate the country's business community, the only way to guarantee that they
will play an active part in the national reconstruction effort;
*  Improve the performance of institutions capable of providing support for small and medium
scale enterprises, and especially public institutions and the banking system;
*  Identify the sectoral economic policy instruments best suited to attain the goals indicated
earlier, among others.
1 Includes all donors' lines of credit.



29
1.2.   Sources of Financing
To finance the Project in question, the government, through the Bank of Mozambique,
received assistance from international financial institutions, and especially the World Bank and
IDA, the European Investment Bank (EIB), and the Caisse francaise de developpement (CFD).
*  On February 7, 1990, the World Bank made approximately US$36 million (SDR 25.1
million) available for this purpose;
*  As of July 18, 1990, about US$7 million (ECU 6 million) were provided by the EIB as
cofinancing. Use of these funds was canceled on July 18, 1994, in view of the fact that the
line of credit had barely been used.
The primary reasons why these funds were not used to a greater extent are as follows: (i)
The length of the process of evalualting and approving subprojects; it took nearly a year and a
half to approve a subproject, and this created serious problems for the Bank of Mozambique
in its dealings with commercial banks and their customers; (ii) the EIB funds covered. only
50% of the overall needs of each subproject, which meant that alternative sources always had
to be found to cover the remainder;
-  The CFD made about US$9.5 million (FF 50.0 million) available to finance the foreign
currency component for support for private sector investment. The use of those funds was
suspended on March 11, 1993. This action was taken on the heels of the decision made by
the French government to suspend credit operations to poor countries, as a way of halting the
continuous growth in the external debt service of those countries.
1.3.   Operational Instruments
To achieve these objectives, the Bank of Mozambique, in its capacity as the central bank,
was designated as the institution responsible for implementing and coordinating the project. An
appropriate structure (the former UGP), abolished in February 1994, was created for the purpose,
and was later incorporated into the DOC, forming the Investment Projects Core Group [Nuicleo
de Projectos de Investimento] (NUPI).
NUPI spared no efforts, whelther in organizing courses to train credit analysts for
commercial banking, or promoting senninars to circulate information on the available lines of
credit in the business community in Maputo as well as in the rest of the provinces. FACIM and
the mass media also served as a vehicle for disseminating information.
Commercial banks were invited to play a major role. They proved to be increasingly
active participants in the economic recovery process. To this end, the following banks signed a
contract of participation in the line of credit referred to: the Banco Comercial de Mocambique
(BCM); the Banco Popular de Des envolvimento (BPD); the Banco Standard Totta de
Mocambique (BSTM); the Banco de Fomento e Exterior (BFE); the Banco Portugues do
Atlantico, which is now part of the BIM; the Banco Internacional de Mocambique (BIM); the
ULC Mocambique (Leasing Company); and Credicoop, which is responsible for selecting the
best customers and the most deserving subprojects to receive financing.
The Institute for the Development of Local Industry (IDIL) has been receiving specific
assistance under the Project. This has enabled it to provide these and other services to small and



30
medium-scale enterprises. This does not mean, however, that other firms providing technical
and financial assistance cannot operate in this area at the same time.
1.4.   Project Evaluation Seminar
On July 4, 1994, a Seminar was held in Maputo in the form of an informal brainstorming
session, to accomplish the following objectives: (i) to assess the effectiveness of the line of
credit and to determine how its accessibility and use could be improved; and (ii) to identify ways
to improve the business climate, especially for small and medium-scale enterprises.
The seminar was organized at the request of the World Bank, following a study of the
national business community in the form of a survey prepared and conducted by Eduardo
Mondlane University in October and November 1993. The purpose of the survey was to identify
the priimary problems encountered by SME's and how those problems affected their ability to set
up in business and operate. This would make it possible to determine systematically the
princilpal constraints they encounter.
Of the 125 businesses interviewed that (i) had submitted bids for the line of credit for
support to SME's and (ii) were listed in the survey provided by the National Planning
Commission (CNP), 39 were chosen at random from the survey provided by the CNP, 58 were
selected on the basis of the information on bidders for the line of credit, and 28 were businesses
in the informal sector. In the conclusions of the document, the obstacles that were found to
have a serious adverse effect on small and medium scale enterprise development were divided
into three categories of descending importance:
(i)   In the first group, the obstacles regarded as most serious were financial problems and
problems related to inflation and price volatility. As far as financial problems are concerned,
difficulties in gaining access to working capital were the primary constraint for these businesses,
followed by access to investment financing and problems encountered in loan negotiations with
banks. As for problems related to price instability, the businesses interviewed indicated that the
greatest obstacles were the high costs of raw materials and capital replacement.
(ii)   The businesses put the following problems in the second category:
* Expenses incurred as a result of taxes and mortgage recording fees;
* The uncertainty surrounding economic and political strategies;
* Access to foreign currency.
Heavy emphasis was placed on macroeconomic problems. The businesses interviewed indicated
that economic stability and the functioning of the financial system were of critical importance to
development of the private sector in Mozambique. It is difficult for SMEs affected by these
issues to get beyond them in order to focus on matters related to their own operations. The
importance attached to access to foreign currency, in the context of the current economic
liberalization policy, could be interpreted as a difficulty in obtaining financial resources to pay
for imports of raw materials;
(iii)   The problems ranked in the third group had to do with procurement, infrastructure, and
technology. Problems related to regulations and laws governing the operations of SME's were
also placed in this category.



31
Despite the seminars organized by NUPI (the former UGP) to disseminate information in
certain provinces, they seem to have had little impact in business circles. The poor performance
of commercial banks in providing information on this facility to the public is also largely to
blame for this situation.
The economic sector which has made the most active use of the proceeds of the Credit
has been industry, since 154 of the applications filed, or 53.55% of total demand, was from that
sector. It is followed by the transportation sector with 46, services with 41, fisheries with 29,
tourism with 22, agro-industry with 17, mining with 8, and other sectors accounted for 13
applications.
In terms of amounts of financing, industry absorbed US$65.4 million, followed by the
transportation sector at US$17.9 million, services at US$12.1 million, tourism at US$10.3
million, fishing at US$5.8 million, agro-industry at US$2.9 million, mining at US$2.4 million,
and others at US$5.0 million.
Applications to finance new businesses or ventures numbered 187, which put this
category in first place with 40.26% of total requests. One hundred and three (103) of the
applications, or 36.34%, were to renovate already existing enterprises, and 40 requests were
submitted to expand operations, equivalent to 10.69% of the total.
1.6.   Disbursements
The following table shows the actual behavior of yearly disbursements up to December
1997.
Table 1.3. Comparative Chart of Proiected and Actual Disbursements (in millions of US$)
Years   I1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997    Total
Actual    2.5      0.6      1.0      5.9     5.6      5.2      8.7      4.0      33.5
The relatively low level of disbursements shown in Table 1.3 is attributed to the
following factors: (i) The inefficiency of the specialists involved in all levels of the import
process, as a result of their lack of experience during the first two years of the project; (ii) the
complexity of the procedures to be performed, especially with regard to procurement for
operators located outside the city of Maputo; and (iii) various bureaucratic procedures
responsible for delays both in approval of letters of credit by local and foreign banking
institutions and in delivery of the goods by suppliers outside the country.
1.7.   Repayments
Of the 147 subprojects approved, 137 are already in the collection phase. Of the
remaining 10, 4 are in the grace period and 6 have been canceled. Generally speaking, the loan
recovery rate has not been satisfactory. The following table presents a general picture of the debt
service, by bank:



32
Table 1.4. Current Debt Service Status of Commercial Banks (Dec. 1996)
Projects/Banks    BCM    %      BP      %     BSTM      %     ULC    %        BIM      %
Total approved       102   100      24   100         8    100       I   100         I   100
Paying regularly     12   11.8       5   20.8        2      25      0      0        0      0
Paying irregularly   11   10.8       3   12.5        0      0       0      0        0      0
Defaulting           59   57.9      12    50         0      0       0      0        0      0
In grace period       4    3.9       1    4.2        6     7.5      1   100         1   100
Rescheduling         10    9.8       2    8.3        0      0       0      0        0      0
requested
Cancelled            ?6    5.8       1    4.2        0      0       0      0        0      0
The reasons for the poor recovery rate vary, but the following are some of the primary
ones:
(i)    Poor performance on the part of certain commercial banks, especially in monitoring
during the period following approval of the subprojects;
(ii)   Inability of customers to pay, as a result of the change in the business climate (lack of a
market for finished products);
(iii)   Deliberate default by customers as a result of diversion of their earnings to other
purposes (in some cases, they used their revenue for re-investment);
(iv)    Deliberate refusal to pay (bad faith), on the basis of allegations that the funds were from
the World Bank and so no payments were owed to the bank in question (this is related to the
situation indicated in (i)).
As a result of these factors, banks, including the BCM and the BPD, were already
prevented from using all the lines of credit financed by the World Bank, unless they achieved at
least (i) a 10% recovery rate, in order to conclude any applications they may have pending; and
(ii) 90%, in order to once again be eligible for the lines of credit.
With a view to minimizing the portfolio of non-performing loans associated with this
line of credit, commercial banks decided to pursue one of the following courses of action: (i) go
to the courts and file suits: (ii) invite their customers to reschedule their debt payments
according to the payment capacity of each customer; and (iii) promote activities to make
customers aware of the need to honor their commitments with banks.
However, in accordance with the terms of the participation contracts, regardless of the
performance of the customers or final beneficiaries in making timely payments of the amounts
due, the commercial banks in question must reimburse the Bank of Mozambique the capital
owed in addition to the interest payable on the due date. Thus, as of December 31, 1997, the
Bank of Mozambique was charging the following amounts for annual interest (in millions of
meticais):
Table 1.5. Trend in Interest Rates Charged by the Bank of Mozambigue
(in millions of meticais)
1991    1992    1993    1994       1995       1996      1997       Total
BCM              0         0       22      2 259    2 584      22 051    22 484     49 380
BPD              0         0       55       244       388      4 382      10 230    15 209
BSTM             0         0       0        174       230        118        611      1 131
BIM              0         0       0          0         0          0          0         0
ULC              0         0       0          0         0          0        719       719
Total            0         O       77      2 677     3 202     26 548    34 024     66529



33
1.8.   Special Account
The special account was closed on March 31 of this year. The unused balance of
US$853,592.43 was returned to the World Bank on March 26, 1998. The amounts incorrectly
credited and debited to this account, which balance out to US$32,118.90, will be transferred to
the account of the exchange fund at Bankers Trust in New York.
1.9.   Accounting of the Operations
Generally speaking, all operations are entered in the accounts and reconciled regularly,
on a monthly basis, with the DCO. The accounts were audited by external auditors, Ern'st
&Young, up to December 31, 1996.
1.10. Social Impact
According to statistics for investment applications submitted during the period under
analysis, at least 4,340 new jobs were created, and 12,102 workers were guaranteed work as a
result of the rehabilitation of the companies where they were already employed.
The average amount in foreign currency requested for each subproject is US$250,000.
With regard to the demand for this line of credit and how it was distributed, the most frequent
applicants were businesses with 50 or less employees, as shown in Table 1.6. below:
Table 1.6. Distribution of Demand by Beneficiary Businesses
(By size or number of employees) i
Size of Staff                No. of Businesses            % of Funds Allotted
From 0 to 50 employees            107                             73
From 51 to 100 employees          23                              16
From 101 to 200 employees          12                              8
Over 200 employees                 5                               3
Total                           147                             100



34
APPENDIX C
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2082-MZ)
Cofinanciers' contribution to the ICR
Assessment of sub-projects financed by the Caisse Francaise de Developpement
* Transports Cassamo: Provided parallel financing in the amount of FF 3,610,200 to add six
Renault trucks to the truck fleet of a freight company to meet an increasing demand. The
company also received financing from the World Bank project in 1992 to buy four Volvo
vehicles.
Assessment: The objectives of the project have been met, and the project is being implemented
on schedule, despite the closing of the Volvo auto shop in Maputo.
* Linga Turist Lta.: Provided parallel financing in the amount of FF1,500,000 to build an
ocean-front resort on the peninsula of Linga Linga.
Assessment: The project did not achieve its objectives and implementation would be completed
only if the investor can find 1,300,000 rands to complete works. Major factors contributing to
the unfinished project can be attributed to legal weakenesses in the establishment of the two
shareholding companies and in the equity contribution, as well as the total lack of supervision of
the works. The investors are for a large part responsible for the failed project because of their
inabilily to meet the financing requirements which were too ambitious. This project, which was
financed through an inefficient banking system, is testimony to the limitations of the exercise.
Despite the availability of virtually risk-free foreign exchange which was then in very short
supply, the project did not achieve its objectives.
* Hotel Moqambique: Provided parallel financing in the amount of FF 3,800,000 to renovate
the Hotel Macambique.
Assessment: An assessment of the financial viability of the project cannot be made at this stage
because of lack of accounting and financial statements. Also, the project is still in the grace
period phase.
* Ginwala: Provided parallel financing in the amount of FF 2,275,622 to help this oil-
producing company establish a unit to manufacture plastic bottles for the cooking oil to a
more marketable size.
Assessment: The project objectives were achieved.



35
APPENDIX D
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ]ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2082-MZ)
Borrower's comments to draft ICR (translated version)
Maputo, June 8, 1998
TO:         Private Sector Finance (Fax No.: (202) 522-1198)
Africa Regional Office
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Attn: Gabrielle M. Rooz
FROM:       Bank of Mozambique, Maputo
Credit Operations Department
Investment Projects Bureau (Fax No.: (258) 1 42 34 65)
RE:         COMMENTS: THE WORLD BANK REPORT ON THE PDPME
We have received the Implementation Report on the Small and Medium-Scale
Enterprise Development Project (PDPME), in response to which we wish to make the
following comments.
Overall, the report is very thorough, and presents the main problems encountered
subsequent to the signing of the Credit Agreement, approval of the subprojects, and the
implementation of the latter up to recovery of the subloans. In particular, it identifies
some key lessons learned from the project, and these will be of great help in improving
our operations in the future.
We have identified some discrepancies, such as the following:
The report quotes the Credit numiber as 1794-MZ, instead of 2082-MOZ.
There are also a number of mistakes, such as the following:
The World Bank states that the closing date was December 1998, even though the
year 1998 is not yet over. Furthermore, closure was in December 1997, a year later than
the date originally scheduled (December 1996).
The European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Caisse francaise de developpement
(CFD) financed eight subprojects, not seven as the report states, even though one of these
was financed simultaneously by EIB and IDA (i.e. that relating to UGC).



36
There are also some discrepancies in amounts, but these are not very important,
because, whereas your report bases its analysis on PDPME subprojects financed
exclusively by the World Bank, the NUPI report reflects the overall position, involving as
it does three international financial institutions: the World Bank (IDA), the Agence
frangaise de developpement (AFD, the former Caisse fran9aise de developpement, or
CFD), and the European Investment Bank (EIB).
This accounts for the differences in the numbers of subprojects approved, workers
employed and jobs created, the regional distribution of subprojects, their breakdown by
type of economic activity, their classification into "new"v, "rehabilitation", or
"expansion", etc.
In our view, the NUPI version is accurate, and this is reflected in the title of the
report: Relat6rio de Execuqdo do PDPME ("Report on the Implementation of the
PDPME"); i.e. the project in general, rather than "Report on the Implementation of the
PDPME (IDA/World Bank)".
However, if the World Bank does decide that NUPI should prepare a report
refening exclusively to the IDA-financed aspects of PDPME, it should call for it and we
will produce it, although at the time that Ms. Gabrielle M. Rooz was preparing the World
Bank report, she asked us for the addresses of EIB and CFD, and we inferred from this
that the approach she was adopting was general and not restricted, because otherwise it
would have made no sense to forward the report to the cofinancing agencies.
We find it difficult to comment on the percentage (82%) that the World Bank
quotes for arrears unrecovered by BPD (Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento) and BCM
(Banco Comercial de Mocambique), because since December 1996 we have received no
information from these banks regarding their lending from this and other lines of credit.
As regards the relationship between the Bank of Mozambique and the commercial
banlcs, the repayment rate for the Credit proceeds has been 100%, since this is
safeguarded under the Participation Contract, which authorizes BM to debit the accounts
of these banks on the days that repayments fall due.
These are all the comments we wish to make on the report.
Sincerely,
/s/   [Illegible]
Mrs. Irene C. Mauricio



