Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2082 MOZ
                       Development Credit Agreement
             (Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project)
                                  between
                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated February 7, 1990
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2082 MOZ
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1990, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European Investment
Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent to six million ECU
(ECU 6,000,000) to assist in financing Parts A and B.4 of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and EIB;
      (C)   the Project will be carried out by Banco de Mocambique (BM) with
the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to Banco de Mocambique the proceeds of the Credit as provided
in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and Banco de Mocambique;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "BM" and "BM/Central" mean Banco de Mocambique, the Borrower's
Central Bank established pursuant to its Statutes;
      (b)   "BM/Commercial" means the respective departments and units of
BM responsible for commercial functions including lending to FBs;
      (c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and BM, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
      (d)   "Subsidiary Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BM pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Administration
Agreement;
      (e)   "Statutes" means the statutes of BM, approved by Decree No. 2/75
of the Borrower, dated May 17, 1975, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
      (f)   "PFI" and "Participating Financial Institution" mean each
commercial bank, development bank or credit institution acceptable to the
Institution to which BM under an agreement (a "Participating Agreement")
with such bank or institution, has lent proceeds of the credit for relending
to final beneficiaries for Subprojects;
      (g)   "FB" and "Final Beneficiary" mean a small and medium-scale
enterprise legally established and operating in the territory of the
Borrower in the sectors of agro-related industries, mining, quarrying,
manufacturing, processing, construction, transport and commercial services
which meets the criteria set forth in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement and to or for which a PFI has made or proposes to make a
Sub-loan for a Subproject, as hereinafter defined;
      (h)   "UGP" means Unidade de Gestao de Projectos, the apex unit
established within the Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais of BM
pursuant to paragraph A of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement;
      (i)   "MIE" means the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Borrower;
      (j)   "IDIL" means Instituto Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Industria
Local, the National Institute for development of local industry established
and operating pursuant to its Statutes approved by Decree No. 6/88 of the
Borrower, dated April 18, 1988;
      (k)   "CI" means Comissao Interdepartamental, the project steering
committee established pursuant to the letter of the Governor of Banco de
Mocambique dated September 19, 1989, and with the functions and
responsibilities set forth in paragraph B of Schedule 3 to the Project
Agreement;
      (l)   "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made
by a PFI to a FB for a Subproject, as hereinafter defined, out of the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit made available to BM under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  3
      (m)    "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which
qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
A.4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
      (n)   "Subproject" means: (i) a new specific development project; and
(ii) an expansion of an existing project, to be carried out by an FB
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
      (o)   "Metical" and "Meticais" mean the currency of the Borrower;
      (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
      (q)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters, dated December 27, 1988 and January 26, 1989, between the
Borrower and the Association; and
      (r)   "fiscal year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
runs from January 1 to December 31.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount
in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 25,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be paid) under Part A of the Project by BM on account of withdrawals made
by a Final Beneficiary under a Sub-Loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal
from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall therefrom be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower and BM of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified
Page  4
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 2000,
and ending November 15, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 15, 2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Banco de Mocambique is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                        Description of the Project;
                       Use of Proceeds of the Credit
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause BM to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of BM
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable BM to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
Page  5
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to
BM under a subsidiary administration agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BM under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Administration Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Administration Agreement or
any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and access to land,
respectively) shall be carried out by BM pursuant to Section 2.04 of the
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1991,
cause BM to prepare a phased program to separate BM's central and commercial
banking functions; and (b) promptly thereafter, take all necessary measures
to implement said program.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower:
      (a)   shall complete:
            (i)   not later than December 31, 1991, an action program to
                  settle lending arrears of the commercial banking
                  institutions, including BM/Commercial, to be designed on
                  the basis of the agreements entered into between the
                  Borrower, through BM/Central, and the commercial banking
                  institutions; and
            (ii)  not later than June 30, 1992, an action program to
                  undertake the rehabilitation of the Borrower's banking
                  system including, inter alia: (A) a plan for its
                  recapitalization; (B) performance benchmarks in terms of
                  capitalization ratios and arrears ratios; and (C) a
                  program for the extension of competition within the
                  banking sector; and
      (b)   promptly thereafter, take all necessary measures to implement
the action programs referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower and BM shall review jointly with the
Association:
      (a)   not later than March 31, 1991, and not later than March 31 of
each year thereafter until the completion of the Project:
            (i)   progress achieved in Project implementation and meeting
                  Project objectives;
            (ii)  progress achieved in the implementation of the action
                  programs referred to in Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of this
                  Agreement;
            (iii) onlending terms and conditions under Part A of the
                  Project including progress on achieving positive weighted
                  average real lending interest rates;
            (iv)  audited financial statements of the PFIs; and
            (v)   ongoing and future initiatives to cofinance the Project;
Page  6
      (b)   not later than March 31, 1991, the proposals for industrial
policy reform prepared by the Borrower on the basis of the Business
Environment Study; and
      (c)    promptly thereafter, implement the recommendations arising out
of said joint reviews, in accordance with an action program and a timetable
agreed with the Association.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year after
                  the Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made; and
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special Account
                  for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end of each
                  such year the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  withdrawals; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   BM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that BM will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (c)   The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations
Page  7
or financial condition of BM or its ability to carry out the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BM or for
the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and
BM; and
      (b)   any of the events specified in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Administration Agreement has been entered into
by the Borrower and BM, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   UGP has become fully operational and has been staffed with: (i)
two senior-level project analysts; (ii) two administrative officers; and
(iii) support staff, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A of Schedule
3 to the Project Agreement; and
      (c)   BM has prepared and furnished to the Association a copy of duly
authorized Participation Agreements entered into between BM and at least two
PFIs pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association that:
      (a)   the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
BM, and is legally binding upon BM in accordance with its terms;
      (b)   the Subsidiary Administration Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BM in
accordance with its terms; and
      (c)   this Agreement and the Project Agreement have been duly ratified
by the Borrower's Council of Ministers.
      Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Governor of Banco de Mocambique is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Banco de Mocambique
Page  8
            Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
            Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
            P.O. Box 423,
            Maputo, Mozambique
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MOBANCO                       6355/7 BMMO
                  Maputo
                                          Facsimile:
                                                29718
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                 440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA) or
                                           64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                  By /s/ Valeriano Ferrao
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated           % of
                               (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)     Sub-loans under
    Part A of the
    Project
    financing:
    (a) Goods                     11,800,000        100% of foreign
Page  9
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    70% of local
                                                    expenditures
    (b) Civil and                  8,100,000        100%
        engineering
        works; and
    (c) Consultants'               1,200,000        100%
        services under
        Parts A and
        B.4 of the
        Project
(2)     Part B.1 of the
    Project (UGP):
    (a) Goods and                    240,000        100%
        services;
        and
    (b) Operating                     80,000        100% of foreign
        costs                                       expenditures and
                                                    70% of local
                                                    expenditures
(3)     Consultants, ser-            270,000        100%
    vices and training
    under Parts B.2 (a)
    and (b) of
    the Project
(4)     Goods and ser-             1,600,000        100%
    vices under
    Part B.2 (c)
    of the Project
(5)     Goods and ser-               330,000        100%
    vices under
    Part B.3 of
    the Project
    (IDIL)
(6)     Refunding of                 200,000        Amount due pur-
    PPF                                             suant to Section
                                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                                    Agreement
(7)     Unallocated                1,280,000
        TOTAL                     25,100,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower;
    (c)   the term "training" includes fellowships, conferences, courses and
study tours; and
    (d)   the term "operating costs" means cost of operation and maintenance
of equipment, vehicles and buildings used in the execution of Project as
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made:
Page  10
    (a)   in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
    (b)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
    (c)   in respect of each PFI unless the Association has been furnished
for its review with the Model Sub-loan Agreement to be entered into between
each PFI and the respective FBs in accordance with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the development of the
Borrower's industrial sector through the provision of financial resources
and technical assistance to small and medium-scale enterprises; (b)
strengthen the financial institutions operating in the territory of the
Borrower through the development and rehabilitation of an effective industry
financing capability; and (c) assist the Borrower in developing an
industrial and financial development policy framework, in particular for the
small and medium-scale enterprise sector.
    The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Enterprise Financing
    Line of Credit to Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises: Financing of
specific Investment Projects through Sub-loans granted to Final
Beneficiaries (FBs) by Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) with
the proceeds of the Credit onlent to them by Banco de Mocambique (BM).
Part B:   Technical Assistance and Train
    Strengthening of the technical and advisory capabilities referred to
below through the acquisition of equipment, vehicles and the provision of
technical expertise and training to carry out or coordinate the following
activities:
1.  UGP
    (a)   Establishment and operation of UGP.
    (b)   Strengthening of UGP's Project implementation capabilities.
2.  PFIs
    (a)   Continuation and evaluation of a training program for the staff
of PFIs to strengthen their capabilities in the appraisal and supervision
of Investment Projects.
    (b)   Carrying out studies of the financial and industrial sectors
within the objectives of the Project.
    (c)   Strengthening of the accounting capabilities of the PFIs.
3.  IDIL
    Establishment of pilot small business advisory centers in the cities of
Maputo and Beira.
4.  Carrying out feasibility studies to identify and appraise Subprojects.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                                SCHEDULE 3
Page  11
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4)
and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions
of paragraph A.4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, payments for
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may
be made out of the Special Account before the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect thereof. Such
expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the
Association shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (iii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
Page  12
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
