Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER
2082
MOZ
Project Agreement
(Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project)
 
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANCO DE MOCAMBIQUE
Dated February
7,
1990
CREDIT NUMBER
2082
MOZ
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February
7, 1990, between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association), and BANCO DE MOCAMBIQUE (BM).
 
WHEREAS
(A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the People's Republic of Mozambique
(the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights
(SDR
25,100,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BM
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary administration agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BM, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to BM on terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Administration Agreement; and
WHEREAS BM, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section
1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of BM
Section
2.01. BM declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to the Development Credit Agreement and,
to this end, shall through UGP carry out the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs, in accordance with sound financial, technical,
management and environmental standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and in accordance with its Statutes and the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
 
Section
2.02. (a) BM shall enter into Participation Agreements with
each PFI under which the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
to Part A of the Project will be lent to such PFI for relending in the form
of Sub-loans to FB's to finance Subprojects, such Participation Agreements
to be satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement.
 
(b)
BM undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, Sub-loans made under Part A of the Project will be made in accordance
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in Schedule
1
to this Agreement.
 
(c)
BM shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association
and of BM;
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the
Subsidiary Administration Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
Section
2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule
2
to this Agreement.
 
Section
2.04. BM shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and access to land) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
Section
2.05. BM shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Administration Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, BM shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary
Administration Agreement or any provision thereof.
 
Section
2.06. (a) Notwithstanding the provision of Section 3.06 of the
Development Credit Agreement, BM shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Administration Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
 
(b)
BM shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BM of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Administration
Agreement.
Page  3
Section
2.07. BM shall continue to maintain UGP and CI during the
implementation of the Project in a form and with functions and staffing
satisfactory to the Association as provided for in Schedule
3
to this
Agreement.
Section
2.08. BM shall for the purposes of Part B.2 (c) of the
Project:
(a)
carry out, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association, a review of the PFIs' accounting capabilities;
(b)
not later than March
31,
1991, prepare on the basis of the
results of said review an action program, to strengthen the accounting
capabilities of the PFIs to be implemented during Project execution; and
(c)
review jointly with the Association progress in the
implementation of said action program, in accordance with the provisions of
Section
3.06 (a) (iv) of the Development Credit Agreement.
 
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section
3.01. (a) BM shall maintain, or cause each of the PFIs to
maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress
of the Project and of each Subproject
(including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b)
BM shall:
 
(i)
have or cause each of the PFIs to have their records,
accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements)
referred to in paragraph
(a)
of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish, or cause each of the PFIs to furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year:
(A) certified copies of their financial statements for
such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish, or cause each of the PFIs to furnish to the
Association, such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, BM
shall:
 
(i)
maintain, or cause each of the PFIs to maintain, in
accordance with paragraph
(a)
of this Section, records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause each of the PFIs to retain until at
least one year after the Association has received the
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
Page  4
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable or cause each of the PFIs to enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv)
ensure or cause each of the PFIs to ensure that such
records and accounts are included in the annual audit
referred to in paragraph
(b)
of this Section, and that
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section
4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
 
Section
4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
 
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty
(20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date
specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify BM of this event.
 
Section
4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section
5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request.
The addresses so specified are:
 
For the Association:
 
International Development Association
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098
(ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423
(RCA)
or
Page  5
64145
(WUI)
 
For Banco de Mocambique:
 
Banco de Mocambique
Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
Avenida
25
de Setembro
1695
P.O. Box 423
Maputo, Mozambique
Cable address                 Telex:
 
MOBANCO
6355/7
BMMO
Maputo
Facsimile:
 
29718
Section
5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of BM or by BM on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Governor of Banco de Mocambique,
or by such other person or persons as such Governor shall designate in
writing, and BM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
 
Section
5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANCO DE MOCAMBIQUE
By
/s/
Valeriano Ferrao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Terms and Conditions of Participation
Agreements and Sub-loans
 
A.
Participation Agreements
1.    (a) PFIs shall relend the Meticais equivalent of the proceeds of the
Credit to Final Beneficiaries
(FBs) for Investment Projects, for terms of
three
(3)
to twelve
(12) years, including periods of grace of one (1) to
four
(4)
years.
(b)
PFIs shall charge a variable interest rate on Sub-loans to FBs
Page  6
at the Borrower's prevailing interest rate including a margin approved by
BM/Central and negotiated within the respective Participation Agreement. For
the purposes of this Schedule the term
"prevailing interest rate" 
means the
rate determined by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of a joint
Despacho issued by the Minister of Finance of the Borrower and the Governor
of Banco de Mocambique, dated September
7,
1989, as amended from time to
time.
 
2.
Each Participation Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to
which each PFI shall:
 
(a)
continue to be duly established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower;
(b)
appraise the financial, technical, environmental and economic
feasibility of Subprojects;
(c)
make Sub
-loans to FBs under Part A of the Project on the basis
of the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth in this
Schedule;
(d)
maintain the organization, management staff and other resources
required for the efficient carrying out of its activities and for the
management of Sub
-loans granted to FBs; and
 
(e)
provide UGP and the Association with such information as they
may reasonably request
.
3.
Procurement
(a)
With respect to the procurement of goods and services to be
financed under Sub-loans made under Part A of the Project, each
Participation Agreement shall contain provisions requiring each PFI to
comply with the following procedures:
 
(i)
goods and services shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts therefor and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering
them.
 
(ii)
Goods and services estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May
1985
(the Guidelines).
 
(iii) Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 but
less than $500,000 per contract: (A) 
may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association; and
(B) all contracts for
such goods shall be reviewed by the PFIs before
submitting them to UGP for their approval and award.
 
(iv)
Civil works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
(v)
Consultants shall have qualifications, experience, and be
employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Page  7
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Association in August
1981.
 
(b)
Each PFI shall undertake that such goods and services shall be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject and shall maintain
appropriate records of the procurement procedures followed.
 
4.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Subproject shall
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the Sub-
loan for such Subproject shall have been:
 
(a)
approved by the Association and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety
(90) days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received the application and information required
under paragraph
5
(a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
 
(b)
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account and such expenditures shall have been
made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association
shall have received the request and information required under paragraph
5
(b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the
purposes of the Development Credit Agreement and this Agreement, a free--
limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Subproject in an amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum
of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
($250,000) equivalent, the
foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as determined by
the Association at the request of the Borrower.
 
5.    (a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan)
to the Association for approval, UGP shall furnish to the Association an
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a
description of the FB;
(ii) a financial and economic appraisal of the
Subproject, including procurement procedures and a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(iii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iv) such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
(b)
Each request by BM for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i)
a summary description of the FB and the Subproject, including procurement
procedures and a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefor.
 
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the
Association on or before December
31, 1995.
 
6.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby BM shall cause each PFI to
obtain, by written contract with the FB or by other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association
and BM, including, for any Sub-loan, the right to:
 
(a)
require the FB to carry out and operate the Subproject with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial,
environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule
2
to this Agreement; and
(ii)
such goods and services
Page  8
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Association if the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants
and construction included in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the FB shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and
(ii) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the FB to
replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or BM shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the FB and to the benefits to be
derived from the Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the FB to the use of the
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such FB to perform its obligations
under its contract with the PFIS.
 
7.
Sub-loans for any Subproject for rehabilitation or expansion of
existing small and medium-scale enterprises may not exceed ninety percent
(90%) of the total cost of the proposed Subproject nor a total equivalent
to one million dollars
($1,000,000.)
 
8.
Sub-loans for any Subproject to be carried out by a new enterprise may
not exceed a total equivalent to one million dollars
($1,000,000).
 
9.
Sub-loans may finance up to eighty (80%) of any Subproject to be
carried out by a new enterprise. Exceptionally, in new enterprises, the Sub-
loan limit may be extended to ninety percent
(90%).
 
10.
PFIs may cofinance the cost of Subprojects from their own resources.
 
11.
No Sub-loan granted by any PFI shall be eligible for refinancing by
BM out of the proceeds of the Credit without the prior verification of UGP
as to its eligibility and without the approval of the Association; once
three
(3)
Sub-loans for each PFI shall have been so approved, however, the
approval of the Association shall no longer be required for the subsequent
free-limit Sub-loans granted by such PFI.
 
B.
Eligibility Criteria for Final Beneficiaries and Investment Projects
-
General Procedures
1.
Enterprises: (a) engaged, inter alia, in agro-related industries,
mining, quarrying, all manufacturing and processing, construction, transport
and commercial services;
(b)
legally constituted under Mozambican law; and
(c) with not more than two hundred (200) workers provided that in the case
of high-
merit Subprojects, UGP may consider on a case
-by-case basis requests
from Enterprises with more than two hundred
(200) workers to receive Sub-
loans from PFIs to carry out said Subprojects.
 
2.
Sub-loans shall be used by FBs to have financing of: (a) fixed assets
(including machinery, equipment, factory buildings and related civil works)
rehabilitation and replacement;
(b) associated incremental permanent working
capital
(including increases in stocks of imported raw materials and
components); (c) spare parts; and (d) technical know-how consultancy
services and training. For the purposes of this Schedule, the term
"permanent working capital" 
means the working capital equal to twelve
(12)
month
-production required by an enterprise when it is operating at its
target level of capacity utilization.
 
Page  9
3
.
During implementation of the Subproject, the FB shall be required
: (
a
)
to maintain a total debt service coverage ratio of not less than
1.5; and
(b) in the case of an existing enterprise to maintain its equity at an
equivalent of not less than ten
(10%) percent of total enterprise assets.
For the purpose of this Schedule, the term
"total debt service coverage
ratio" 
means net revenues
(revenue less associated cost, excluding provision
for depreciation and debt service payments) divided by debt service payments
(including interest and principal, but excluding interest during
construction).
4.
Appraisal of Subprojects:
 
(a)
UGP shall review the appraisal reports prepared by the PFI
concerned in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
appraisal reports shall include, inter alia, the following: (i)
analysis of the proposed Subproject, including its technical soundness,
financial viability, economic efficiency  and managerial capability;
(ii)
calculation of the incremental financial rate of return
(FRR) which shall
be at least twelve
(12%) percent; (iii) calculation of the incremental
economic rate of return
(ERR) which shall be at least twelve (12%) percent;
and
(iv)
assessment of the environmental impact of the proposed Subproject,
in particular in cases of enterprises which
(A)
extract natural resources,
(B) cause particular pollution problems, (C) create special hazards for
workers, or
(D)
create risks for consumers.
 
SCHEDULE
2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections
I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits"
published by the Bank in May
1985
(the Guidelines).
 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mozambique may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs
2.55
and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through
4
of Appendix
2
thereto.
 
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject tot the provisions
of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
2
thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Local Competitive Bidding:
 
Goods and works estimated to cost $100,000 or more up to $500,000 per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.
International or Local Shopping:
 
Page  10
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more up to $500,000 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
 
3.
Direct Contracting:
 
Goods and works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000
may be procured under direct contracting, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
 
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph
2
(d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
 
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
3
and
4
of Appendix
1
to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph
4
of Schedule
5
to this Agreement.
 
3.
The figure of
15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix
1
to the Guidelines.
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
 
SCHEDULE
3
Implementation Program
A.
Apex Unit
(UGP)
 
1.
UGP, established as an apex unit within the Departamento de
Relacoes Internacionais of BM/Central (Departamento), shall be responsible
for coordinating, managing and supervising the overall implementation of the
Project.
2.
Staff
(a)
UGP shall be headed by a Manager who shall report directly to
the Head of the Departamento and shall be assisted by an Adviser with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
 
(b)
UGP shall have qualified and experienced staff, including, inter
alia, the following:
 
Page  11
(i)
two
(2)
Project Analysts;
(ii)
two
(2)
Administrative Officers; and
(iii) Support staff, in appropriate numbers.
 
3.
Functions
UGP shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
 
(a)
providing guidance to PFIs in selecting eligible Subprojects in
accordance with the procedures, terms and conditions set forth in Schedule
1
to this Agreement;
(b)
ensuring the application of appropriate standards for Subproject
appraisal;
(c)
supervising the PFI's compliance with their obligations under
the Participation Agreements;
(d)
reviewing eligibility and authorizing financing for Subprojects
submitted by PFIs: (i) for Sub-loans of less than $100,000, ensuring that
the requests meet the eligibility criteria are approved within ten
(10)
working days from submission;
(ii) for Sub-loans above $100,000 but less
than $250,000 equivalent, reviewing and making comments on the quality of
the appraisal carried out by the PFI concerned, before approving it within
ten
(10)
working days from submission; and
(iii)
for Sub-loans of or above
$250,000 equivalent, reviewing and commenting on the appraisal as referred
above, before submitting the Subproject to the Association for its approval;
(e)
administering the Special Account, ensuring proper disbursement
of proceeds of the Credit and supervising and centralizing the collection
and forwarding to the Association of supporting documentation;
(f)
supervising, on a sample basis, the implementation of
Subprojects;
(g)
ensuring the liaison between the Association and the PFIs on
matters related to the Project;
(h)
maintaining appropriate records required for supervision and
Project completion reports; and
(i)
acting as Secretary to the CI, as hereinafter defined.
 
B.
Project Steering Committee
(CI)
 
1.
The Manager of UGP shall consult with a Project steering committee
(CI) to oversee Project implementation.
 
2.
CI, established by the Governor of Banco de Mocambique, shall be
composed of representatives of the following institutions, inter alia:
 
(a)
BM
(Chairperson empowered to call CI's meetings);
 
(b)
Ministry of Finance;
(c)
Ministry of Industry and Energy;
(d)
Ministry of Commerce and Trade; and
(e)
National Planning Commission.
 
The Chairperson of the CI may, at its discretion, request the
participation of other government agencies, public and/or private
institutions related to the subsectors receiving assistance under the
Project.
Page  12
3.
CI shall have the following functions:
 
(a)
monitoring progress achieved in implementing the Project;
(b)
coordination of sectoral objectives and sectoral distribution
of Sub-loans under Part A of the Project;
 
(c)
monitoring and advising UGP on Project policy aspects,
application of Subproject eligibility criteria, and import licensing; and
(d)
monitoring cofinancing, disbursements and debt service issues
encountered by UGP during Project implementation.
