Doi
The Worlk
...   1             ItS a 
I'FM OMCaAL              '
IqewtNo. 9913
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2675-AR)
SEPTEMBER 26, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - AUSTRAL (A)
Rate at Appraisal:  US$1 - A   1.0
Rate at Completion: US$1 - A 261.0
Glossarv of Abbreviations
AGR      Agriculture and Rural Development Department
AGREP    Agriculture and Rural Development Department, Economics and
Policy Division
BCRA     Central Bank of Argentina
BNA      Banco de la Naci6n Argentina
CEM      Country Economic Memorandum
CFI      Federal Investment Council
EC       Executive Committee for Implementation of Federal Land Tax
EEC      European Economic Community
FLT      Federal Land Tax
GOA      Government of Argentina
IICA     Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INTA     National Institute of Agricultural Technology
JNC      National Meat Board
JNG      National Grain Board
HE       Ministry of Economy
OPS      Operations Staff
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PRONAGRO National Agricultural Development Program
SAGyP    Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
TCN      National Court of Accounts
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCAL USE ONMY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ckg. Of D,tah.CARWA
OpHatuns Evautm
September 26, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on ARGENTINA - Agricultural
Sector Loan (Loan 2675-AR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Argentina - Agricultural Sector Loan
(Loan 2675-AR)" prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auth,nzation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2675-AR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze No.
Preface   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  . .  . .  . .   * .   .   .   .   .  .  .   .   .   .   .
Evaluation Summary  . . . .             .   . . . . . . . .iii
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    BACKGROUND
The Economy Prior to 1986 . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .1
The Agricultural Sector. ..  . .   ....... . ..   .          2
Constraints on Agricultural Growth  . . . . . . ..  .        3
Government Actions to Stimulate Agricultural Growth  .       5
Agricultural Institutions and the Policy Relationship        5
Bank Group Operations in Argentina  . . . . . . . . . .      6
II.   IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Introduction    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  .  .  7
Loan Preparation  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    8
Loan  Appraisal    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
Objectives and Conditions of the Loan . . . . . . . . . .   20
Board Presentation      . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . .   22
III.  IMPLEMENTATION
Effectiveness and First Tranche Release . . . . . . . . .   22
Implementation Experience...                                22
Release of the Second Tranche    . . . . . . . . . .    25
Disbursement, Procurement and Audit . . . . . . . .         27
Compliance with Loan Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION........ ......                           28
V.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
The  World  Bank    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
The  Borrower    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
Conclusions   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .   .  .  31
Loan  Design   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Lessons Learnt  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
PART rI:  PROJECT REVIEW FROH BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . .   34
PART III: SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION AND STATISTICS
Annex I   Basic Data Sheet . . . . . . . . . . ...  .  .  .   ...   35
Annex II  Compliance with Loan Conditions      . . . . . .       37
Annex III Export Taxes and the Exchange Rate     . . . . .       40
Annex IV  Borrower's Statement Development Policy  . . . .      50
Annex V   Project-Related Economic Indicators    . . . . . .   57
Map:      IBRD 19235



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICUJLTURAL SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2675-AR)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews the Argentina Agricultural
Sector Loan (2675-AR) for US$350 million. The loan was approved by the Board of
Directors on April 3, 1986 and signed on June 5 of that year.  The original
Closing Date of June 30, 1988 was extended to June 30, 1989 to accommodate delays
in completion of the technical basis for the land tax. Final disbursement was
made on June 23, 1989. US$0.04 million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Department
IV of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region. It is based on the President's
Report, Loan Agreement, Supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and
Borrower, consultant studies, internal Bank studies, memoranda and interviews.
The Borrower did not respond to the Bank's requests for an independent
assessment of the operation. The Bank's draft PCR, Parts I and III, was sent to
the Borrower for comments on March 27, 1991, but no response has been received.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2675-AR)
EVAlIUATION SUMMARY
Backfround and Objectives
1.     The Economy.  Argentina's decline from one of the richest countries in
the world to one beset by seemingly intractable economic problems can be
attributed t' a fundamental reorientation of the economy following the economic
crisis provokeG by the Great Depression of the 1930s. For the next four decades
the country's development strategy turned inwards, promoting rapid industrializa-
tion financed largely by transfers from agriculture, the sector upon which early
prosperity had been built.   However, the exhaustion of import-substitution
options led to increasingly frequent balance of payments crises and erratic
economic growth.
2.     Major efforts were undertaken in 1976 and again in 1978 to reverse the
trend, but persistent inflation and failure to contain public expenditures
undermined these programs, leading to extreme instability which, in turn,
concentrated the efforts of decision-makers on short-terk, speculative operations
which were unsustainable and perceived as such.   A democratically-elected
Government took office in late 1983, inheriting spiralling inflation and balance
of payments difficulties stemming from unchecked growth of the fiscal deficit,
mioguided exchange rate policies and excessive external borrowing.
3.     In late 1984, the Government entered into a standby arrangement with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), but a deepening recession weakened its
adherence to program targets and draw-down of the first tranche was suspended.
Further deterioration led to the Austral Plan of June, 1985, a comprehensive
adjustment program supported by a revised and more stringent IMF standby
arrangement. Political and social support for the Plan was widespread, and the
Bank believed the Government's initial success in stabilizing the economy augured
well for improved economic performance.
4.     Agriculture.   Agriculture bore the brunt of the import-substitution
strategy pursued by successive governments. Agricultural exporters variously
faced export taxes, a lower effective exchange rate than other exporters, or
inflated prices for their inputs.   This pattern of discrimination against
agriculture penalized the country in foregone production and export earnings, and
more frequent balance of payments crises.   In particular, the Government's



- iv -
interchangeable use of export taxes and an over-valued currency to extract
revenues from the sector has been a powerful disincentive to productive
investment.
5.     Influences on the Loan. Several important factors influenced the nature
and processing of the loan. First, the promise inherent in fast-disbursing loans
coupled with policy change and the fact that several such loans were already
underway or peniing in other countries in tLa Region created considerable
interest in extending such lending to Argentina. Second, the decision to build
a project lending pipeline in Argentina was subsequently reinforced by the
explicit requirement under the Baker Plan for a major Bank role in assisting
indebted countries to develop their way out of debt.  Lastly, little recent
agricultural sector work existed on which to construct an informed dialogue and
thus the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) of 1984 became the principal
blueprint, largely pre-selecting the policy issues and loan concept.
6.     The Loan Concept and Preparation.   The CEM argued that the entire
Argentine farming system would be transformed by replacing agricultural export
taxes and import tariffs on inputs by other revenue measures, preferably a
federal land tax (FLT). The latter would be developmentally sound, would be easy
to collect, and would transfer the tax burden from exporters to the domestic
producers of high-value products. The CEM did not discuss the complementarity
between export taxes and the exchange rate in discriminating against agriculture
or the central significance of a stable exchange rate as an agricultural
incentive.
7.     Loan preparation  took almost  two years  and was  characterized  by
persistent debate over the loan's feasibility and timeliness, an inadequate
analytical base and an apparent inability to determine the critical path for
achieving loan objectives. Resource transfer was a major preoccupation which
undermined the structural objectives and reduced the seriousness of the dialogue
with the Government. It is also evident that the loan's structural requirements
lacked a rational linkage to the IMF's stabilizc.tion efforts, and implicitly
involved the Government in trying to fulfill conflicting demands.
8.     Despite the complexity of loan objectives and the need for unequivocal
government support, the Bank's substantive dialogue was limited to the
Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries (SAGyP). The Ministry of
Economy (ME) and its Secretariat of Finance had little interest in structural
reform. While not opposing a federal land tax in principle, they were strongly
averse to relinquishing the secure source of income represented by export taxes,
and were thus not committed to the loan concept and objectives. The Bank gave
principal responsibility for the planning and implementation of the reform
program to SAGyP despite that agency's lack of control over the policy
instruments and resources most affecting the sector. By contrast, ME's formal
role was largely peripheral despite it being the agency most affected by the
proposed changes.
9.     Loan Objectives.   The Loan was  des;igned to increase  agricultural
production and exports through a structural change in federal taxation away from



export taxes (retenciones), which discourage the production of exportable crops,
to a production-neutral federal land tax which would improve incentives and lead
to a more intensive use of agricultural resources. The loan is described in the
President's Report as supporting the following policy reforms and complementary
activities under the Government's  economic  stabilization program:   (a) a
substantial reduction in agricultural export taxes;   (b) fiscal measures to
maintain the fiscal deficit at satisfactory levels, including the introduction
of a FLT; (c) modified regulations and tariffs pertaining to imported inputs;
and (d) complementary studies and institutional support.
10.        Loan Conditions.  The tranche release conditions were as follows:
(a)    First Tranche.    The first tranche of US$170.5 million was to be
released upon loan effectiveness (and before June 30, 1986) based on:
(i) establishment of an Executive Committee; (ii) re-designation of
tractors and agricultural machinery to the "prior approval" list for
imported  goods;  and  (iii)  Government's  execution  of subsidiary
agreements with the National Grain Board (JNG) and National Meat
Board (JNC) for complementary studies and  institutional    support
activities.     Disbursement  under  the  loan  for  studies  and
institutional support was contingent upon presentation to the Bank of
acceptable terms of reference.
(b)    Second Tranche.   Disbursement of the second tranche of US$170.5
million (forecast for January, 1987) required: (i) reduction of
agricultural export taxes to a level not to exceed 70Z of the rates
in force on May 1, 1985 or other levels to be jointly agreed; (ii)
implementation of fiscal measures sufficient to compensate for
revenue losses from the export tax reduction, without increasing the
overall sector tax burden compared to its May 1, 1985 level; (iii)
designation of tractors and agricultural machinery to the "automatic
entry" classification for imported goods, and removal of the 102
import surcharge on agricultural chemicals;  and (iv) satisfactory
progress in the execution of the agreed land tax implementation
schedule, and in all stud'es financed under the loan.
Implementation Experience
11.        The first tranche was released on September 24, 1986, five and a half
months after Board presentation due to difficulties in complying with a number
of conditions of effectiveness.
12.        Loan implementation was hampered by political and macroeconomic
impediments, some of which might have been predicted. The following summarizes
the main aspects:
(a)    The Federal Land Tax.   Legislation to establish a FLT remained
stalled in the Congressional committees to which it was first
referred for debate. Evidence suggests that a progressive breakdown
of the Plan Austral and deteriorating conditions in the rural sector



- vi -
rapidly eroded the Executive's willingness to pursue the project and
provided the opportunity for earlier opposition to re-surface.
Farmer groups argued that reductions in export tax rates at that time
could not compensate them for sharply lower world commodity prices or
in any way be accepted as a quid pro qur for future introduction of
a land tax.   While the Bank believed it had satisfactory legal
assurances from the GOA that export tax rates would be reduced
permanently, farmers ncted that the prerogative of ME to manipulate
rates remained intact, and reached the opposite conclusion. The FLT
was perceived by farmers as additional to expc-t taxes, not as a
replacement.
(b)    Export Taxes.   First-stage reductions of export taxes on major
agricultural and agro-industrial products by mid-1986 were marginally
below agreed levels, reflecting the Bank's considerable effort to
secure real movement on the issue of rates.  Subsequent reductions by
'ate 1986 to zero (in the case of grains) and to low levels (in the
case of oilseeds) far exceeded loan requirements, but were neces-
sitated by the fall in international commodity prices to historical
lows, in real terms. These latter reductions were consistent with
historical patterns of export tax implementation and had little to do
with the loan. Indeed, after the Spring Plan of August, 1988, the
Government abandoned the IMP's exchange rate regimen, adopting a
multi-tiered  rate designed  specifically to discriminate  against
agriculture.   In May, 1989 (i.e., before loan closing), with the
adoption of a unified exchange rate, export taxes were reinstated at
high levels.
(c)    Studies.  The five studies and two programs oZ institutional support
were completed successfully.   The special taxation study, which
combined preparation of the technical basis for the FLT with a study
to determine the appropriate level of taxation for agricultural
activities and possible alternative measures to the land tax, was
also completed but with delays.  The closing date of the loan was
extended for one year to permit its completion. These high-quality
studies, elements of which have won several international prizes for
technical excellence, represent the single success story under this
loan.
(d)    Import Liberalization.   Tractors and agricultural machinery were
transferred to the "automatic entry" list for imports after
considerable delays related to depressed conditions in the domestic
industry.   However, deficit reduction requiremenits of a new IMP
arrangement in early 1988 meant that the Government was unable to
remove the import surcharge on agricultural chemicals, which instead
was raised.
13.        Second Tranche Release.  The second tranche was released on June 22,
1988 following protracted and unusually contentious debate during which
fundamental aspects of the loan's design and feasibility were once again



- VIA -
questionekL. Acknowledging tne impossibility of imposing an FLT, the Bank agreed
to accept flternative revenues proposed by the GOA as compensatlon for export tax
reductions, and insisted or compliance with the condition affecting imports of
tractors and machinery, which was seen as a key indication of the Government's
seriousness in pursuing a much broader program of trade liberalization then under
discussion.   The Board of Directors approved a decision to waive two loan
conditions (i.e., FLT implementation and removal of the import surcharge on
egricultutral chemicals).
Economic Impact
14.        The loan provided a large, infusion of foreign exchange but achieved
no structural reform on the central issue of agricultural taxation.   The
unpredictable mixture of over-valued c, rrency, multiple exchange rates and export
taxes persisted following the Spring Plan of August 1988 and continued to affect
producers' confidence and their ability to plan and make investment decisions.
The production response during the perio of low export tax rates and high real
value of the currency (early 1986 to August 1988) was therefore low; producers
clearly and correctly interpreted these moves as mere stabilization measures and
not as the first stage of any long-term effort to improve agricultural
incentives.
Sustainabilitv
15.        The preparation phase of the loan did not establish the conditions
necessary tor sustainability. First, Government support for the loan concept and
objectives was weak and the Bank's efforts to construct the essential dialogue
were not sufficiently forceful or comprehensive. Second, loan design lacked a
strategy for locking in export tax reductions and removing their discretionary
use, leaving ME free to manipulate rates and causing producers to perceive and
resist the FLT as an additional measure. Lastly, pending elections and continued
macroeconomic instability subverted official interest in or willingness to pursue
structural reform.
Conclusions and Lessons
16.        Decisions made during both preparation and implementation of the loan
were too often motivated by a need to transfer resources, which subordinated
structural reform objectives. The reform package was not well designed and it
was superimposed on a difficult political and macroeconomic situation, pre-
disposing the loan to failure. The principal lessons relating to this specific
loan and its design are as follows:
(a)    The fiscal emphasis of the Bank's approach to reducing export taxes
was too narrow, e.g., the industrial protection implications
reflected in differential tax rates between the raw and processed
product, which, in the case of oilseeds and their processed products,
represents a transfer from farmers to processors of around US$200
million per year, did not receive the close attention they merited;



- viii -
(b)    Export tax rate reductions should have been locked in and their
discretionary use controlled through legislative and/or otl,r means,
to prevent the oscillation which has been, and continues to be, so
powerful a disincentive to producers. Such action would have greatly
improved the chances for legislative passage of the FLT;
(c)    The anticipated  disburseamnt of the  loan  (as presented  in the
President's Report) was overly optimistic and incompatible with a
realistic schedule for achieving its main conditions, making problems
with second tranche release inevitable;
(d)    Concentration on one fiscal element in the absence of a coherent and
stable macroeconomic environment, especially with respect to exchange
rate policy, greatly reduced the likelihood of achieving loan
objectives;
(e)    Passage of the land tax legislation should have been a condition of
negotiations.   The extreme riskiness of legislation,  its central
significance to the reforms sought, and the size of the loan, made
requirement for its passage up-front an entirely reasonable
condition;
(f)    In the absence of more significant achievements on the policy reforms
than were actually accomplished, a more appropriate course of action
might h.-i been to have cancelled the loan;
(g)    The institutional scheme was unrealistic.  The primary impetus and
responsibility for planning and implementing the reform program
should have come from ME, not SAGyP, since it was the agency most
affected by the reforms sought;
(h)    Loan withdrawal responsibilities and procedures should have been
established at negotiations with full BCRA involvement, understanding
and agreement;
17.        In addition, a number of generic issues should be highlighted:
(a)    Sector adjustment must be preceded by and must fit into a broad
adjustment program which realistic evaluation shows is working
Close coordination of macreconomic and sectoral lending is essential;
(b)    Adjustment lending requires the unequivocal support of Government,
leading agencies and important personalities.   The Bank needs to
address dialogue development in a more sophisticated manner if it
continues to design politically-sensitive operations, and should not
be afraid to halt loan processing if =mmunication with Government is
clearly inadequate;



-ix 
(c)    Greater "front-loading" of conditionality is needed to achieve as
much as possible early in the loan and mitigate the tendency to give
away the second tranche when conditionality is not met;
(d)    Legislation is an exceptionally risky form of conditionality for a
fast-disbursing loan, unless it is achieved as a condition of
negotiations. Government is generally reluctant to support measures
that are difficult to reverse; the vagaries of the political process
cannot reasonably be tied to a schedule;   and, since the Bank is
precluded from intervening directly in the political process, it
becomes largely an observer;
(e)    Sustaining  policy  reform  is  a  fundamental  and  well-recognized
weakness of adjustment lending. The imperative for the Bank, if it
is to continue to make these loans, is to develop a broad strategy,
including appropriate incentives and mechanisms, for establishing
commitment and sustainability.  Legal covenants ace an ineffective
substitute for this process;
(f)    Clearly-defined  objectives  are  the  sine  qua non of  adjustment
lending. In retrospect, it is evident that this particular operation
suffered from a lack of clear definition between its resource
transfer and policy reform objectives; and
(g)    Agricultural Sector Loans (AGSALs) are not the only loans which have
sought to reduce or eliminate export taxes. Many have encountered
the inherent problem that export taxes are a comparitively simple way
of raising revenue in countries where other forms of taxation are not
effectively implemented.   Thus, the lesson for the Bank is that
export tax reform can only be part of a broad and workable reform of
the overall tax system.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2675-AR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Backaround
The Econo2M Prior to 1986
1.01      Argentina was among the richest countries in the world in the early
decades of the twentieth century, but by the 1980s its per capita income had
fallen far below that of many countries with similar resource endowment. The
reasons for this relative decline have their origin in the 1930s.  The Great
Depression severely curtailed exports of the traditional agricultural products
which had been the foundation of Argentina's earlier development. The ensuing
economic crisis provoked a reformulation of the country's development strategy
which, for the next four decades, became in varying degrees inward-looking and
protectionist, promoting industrialization financed largely by transfers from
agriculture.   However, as easy import-substitution options were exhausted,
balance of payments crises became more frequent and economic growth more erratic.
The political pendulum between nationalist populist governments emphasizing
autonomous development and market-oriented reformists stressing an open economy
and world view damaged the productive and financial structure. Increased public
sector spending placed growing strains on fiscal stability, while price, credit
and interest rate controls inhibited saving and investment and distorted the
allocation of resources.
1.02      A marked change of direction occurred in 1976, beginning with an
austere stabilization program accompanied by a relaxation of price, marketing and
financial controls, major devaluations of the peso, sharp reductions in the
fiscal d4eficit and improved export incentives.   The initial results were
encouraging. However, the failure to reduce inflation as expected provoked
further major changes in macro-economic policy in 1978, involving exchange rate
adjustments, import tariff reductions and almost complete abolition of remaining
controls on credit, interest rates and foreign exchange transactions. Despite
these measures, fiscal deterioration from growing expenditures for debt service,
defense and domestic security,  and increased public sector wages fed the
inflationary pressures which the exchange rate and tar_.ff policies were intended
to diminish.   Thus, policies pursued to stabilize the economy and improve
economic efficiency resulted in extreme instability which, in turn, concentrated
the efforts of decision-makers on short-term, speculative operations.   The
policies adopted were generally unsustainable and were perceived as such.
1.03      Between 1979 and 1983 there were five changes of leadership in
Argentina, the consequences of which were extreme economic and political



-2-
uncertainty which, combined with the unstable international environment, led to
the cessation of commercial bank lending. A democratically-elected Government
took office in late 1983, inheriting spiralling inflation and balance of payments
difficulties stemming from unchecked growth of the fiscal deficit, erratic and
misguided exchange rate policies, and uncontrolled external borrowings by both
the public and private sectors.
1.04       Towards the end of 1984, the Government entered into a 15 month
standby arrangement with the IMF designed to lower the rate of inflation and
achieve a balance of payments position enabling Argentina to meet its external
obligations while initiating domestic recovery. The Government sought to comply
with the conditions of the IMF arrangement despite a deepening recession, but its
adherence to program targets weakened and, in early 1985, the IMF suspended the
first conditional draw-down until completion of the 1985 first-quarter review of
the program. A significant deterioration in econxmic conditions by the second
quarter of 1985, with severe imbalances in the domestic and external sectors and
very high inflation, forced the Government to adopt drastic measures designed to
prepare the country for a major change in economic policy.
1.05       The Government instituted the Austral Plan in June 1985.  This was a
comprehensive adjustment program involving an immediate and substantial increase
in fiscal revenues, large reductions in public expenditures, a temporary price
freeze, and monetary reform designed to neutralize inflationary expectations.
The program was supported by a revised and more stringent standby arrangement
(covering 1985/86) with the IMF and commercial bank creditors. In addition to
the Plan, the Government formulated a medium-term growth strategy for 1985-1989,
based on an improved investment climate and the restoration of adequate export
incentives.   The overall program received wide political and social support
despite its austerity, and itf, initial success in stabilizing the economy
permitted draw-down of the first tranche under the IMF agreement. The Bank
believed that the Plan augured well for improved economic performance if efforts
to reduce the fiscal deficit could be sustained.
The Azricultural Sector
1.06      Agriculture  and agro-industry have  been  crucial  in Argentina's
economic development and have traditionally been relied upon to lead the country
out of economic crises.   Crop production grew rapidly from the early 1970s
through the adoption of improved seed, chemicals and mechanization which raised
yields and produced high and relatively risk-free returns to investment. Primary
exports rose from about 70% of total exports in the late 1970s to above 802 in
1983/84. Argentina was, at What time, supplying about 5% of annual world exports
of wheat and around 12% of maize and sorghum, ranking respectively fifth and
second among the major world suppliers.
1.07      At the time of loan preparation, cereals (chiefly wheat, maize and
sorghum) and oilseeds (soybeans and sunflower seed) were the main crop
activities, accounting for almost 90% of the total crop area. Almost all the
area under these crops was cultivated under rainfed conditions, with little use
of fertilizer. The Bank believed that there was substantial scope for greater



-3-
use of fertilizer and other inputs and for investment in infrastructure and
equipment to enhance production, if prices could be improved.   By 1985, the
agricultural sector wac contributing about 15% of GDP, 17% of employment, 75% of
foreign exchange earnings and between 14Z and 20% of the Federal Government's tax
revenues, chiefly in the form of export taxes.
Constraints on ARricultural Growth
1.08       Pricinx  Policies.    Agriculture  bore  the  brunt  of  the  import
substitution strategy pursued by successive governments. Agricultural exporters
variously received a lower effective exchange rate than other exporters, received
prices seriously reduced by the imposition of export taxes, and paid inflated
prices for their inputs. Despite technological advances, a well-developed input
distribution system and a competitive marketing environment, agriculture was
growing at a rate well below its potential with vast areas of arable land either
lying idle or being utilized without modern inputs, penalizing the economy in
foregone production and export earnings, more frequent balance of payments crises
and depleted soils.'/
1.09       Price  discrimination  focussed  primarily  on  the  traditional
agricultural exports (cereals, oilseeds and beef), but its consequences affected
the entire sector. The combination of direct and indirect nominal protection was
strongly negative for the entire period 1960-1985: agriculture was discriminated
against by between 40-50% (i.e., product prices would have been between 80-100%
higher in the absence of these distortions). Over the long-term, direct measures
of discrimination (i.e., export taxes) were higher when a competitive rate of
exchange or high international prices prevailed (para 14).1'
1.10       The policies outlined above attempted to satisfy the following non-
agricultural objectives: (a) maintaining low food prices in urban markets; (b)
protecting domestic industry; and (c) raising fiscal revenues. At the time of
loan preparation (1984/85), most agricultural exrorts were taxed at rates up to
25%. Export taxes acted as a price stabilization device which permitted higher
real wages in the politically-active urban sector at the expense of rural
producers. Intervention in the sector was conservative, aimed at stabilizing
farm incomes rather than prices, and it served to neutralize long-run changes in
productivity." Between 1981 and 1983, export taxes rose steadily; by 1983 they
represented about 20% of Federal fiscal revenues, being the third most important
source of revenue after value-added and fuel taxes. The tax reaped about US$1
billion per year in 1983 and 1984 and around US$1.3 billion in 1985 (some 1.8%
11 IBRD, Economic Memorandum on Argentina, Report No. 4979-AR, June 22, 1984.
2/ IBRD, Agricultural Sector Review, Report No. 7733-AR, Volume I, June 30, 1989. In purely
fiscal terms, it is not easy to demonstrate that the agricultural sector pays more than other
sectors. Evasion of direct taxes (wealth, income, etc.) is significant. The broader picture,
however, shows a pattern of discrimination.
31 Adolfo C. Sturzenegger, A Comparative Study of the Political Economy of Agricultural Pricing
Policies, Argentina, January, 1988.



-4-
of GDP). Soybeans, maize and wheat accounted for over 90% of export tax revenues
collected. Buenos Aires, Santa Fe and C6rdoba provinces contributed over 75% of
those revenues.
1.11       Exiort Taxes -- Origins and Impact.  Taxes on exports have a colonial
pedigree based on a tributary or extractive relationship between Argentina and
its principal collaborating powers and, in microcosm, Buenos Aires and the
hinterland. Historically, they were levied not because the producer evaded other
taxes (although this had become a powerful motivation for their continuance) but
because they are legitimized in the Argentine Constitution and the producer has
always paid them. In fact, export taxes as they are now administered derive from
laws passed in the 1930s giving the Government broad, formal taxing authority.
In contrast to other taxes, however, which require congressional action to
modify, export taxes are the prerogative of HE acting through its Secretariat of
Finance.   Differentiated semantically as retenciones, they are used by the
Secretariat of Finance to retain part of the country's foreign exchange earnings
to cover current expenses.  While their consumption subsidy function (para 12)
was deeply-entrenched, increasingly in the 1980s arguments to retain them on
price stabilization grounds have tended to mask their more dominant fiscal
purpose.
1.12       In a country where tax evasion is common, export taxes have several
desirable characteristics: (a) they are easy to collezt; (b) changes in export
tax rates can be enacted by the Executive without congressional approval,
providing flexibility in varying fiscal revenues in the short term; and (c) they
are politically attractive in reducing consumer prices and providing a cost
advantage to processors of agricultural raw materials. While such advantages do
not compensate for the adverse effects export taxes have on agricultural
production and exports, they are vital to an understanding of the GOA's tenacious
attempt to keep them.
1.13       On the negative side, export taxes have been a serious impediment to
agricultural growth because they have: (a) penalized productive investment; (b)
created unfavorable input/output price relationships, discouraging the use of
inputs such as fertilizers; (c) caused intra-sectoral distortions in resource
allocation by applying different and changing rates of taxes to raw and processed
agricultural products; and (d) caused resource allocation out of alignment with
international market signals by preventing producer access to export parity
prices.
1.14       Export Tax or Exchange Rate.   Agricultural investment has been
discouraged not only by the high overall level of export taxe3 but also by the
price uncertainty associated with the Government's interchangeable use of export
taxes and an over-valued currency.   Export taxes have been lowered when the
currency has been over-valued, and increased when devaluations have taken place
(Annex III).  For example, over the 1977-81 period, when the Argentine peso
climbed almost 50% against the US dollar, export taxes on wheat were reduced from
482 to zero. From 1982-1984, when peso devaluations took place, the wheat export
tax was raised in stages from 10% to 24%. Restoration of an efficient exchange
rate has almost invariably been accompanied or followed by increased export tax



rates designed to confiscate "windfall profits", a punitive pattern which was re-
established with renewed vigor even before Ln. 2675-AR was closed.4/
1.15       Input Usafe. Throughout this period, Argentine farmers have also been
discouraged from adopting some high-yield technologies due to their high cost
relative to policy-depressed output prices. Until early 1984, import tariffs on
agricultural inputs were substantial, ranging from 25% for urea and veterinary
medicines to 38% for most plant protection chemicals and tractor components.
Argentina was a striking example of a relatively advanced agricultural producer
with a generally low level of agricultural chemical usage.
Government Actions to Stimulate Agricultural Growth
1.16      Under the Austral Plan, the Government developed a four-pronged
program to stimulate agricultural p.oduction and exports based on:   (a)
significant reductions in export taxes and their substitution by alternative and
less damaging fiscal tools (then-recent export tax increases were to be a purely
temporary component of short-term economic stabilization); (b) reducing tariffs
on imported agricultural inputs (even though reducing the fiscal deficit under
the Austral Plan required a temporary, across-the-board tariff increase on all
imports); (c) phasing out all quantitative import restrictions; and (d) a
commitment to maintaining export-competitive exchange rate adjustments.
1.17      Complementing the Government's program, SAGyP produced a medium-term
National Agricultural Development Program (PRONAGRO), whose sectoral objectives
were defined as increased production of cereals and oilseeds;    expanded
agricultural exports; developing regional economies, especially in the non-Pampa
zone;  generating employment; and encouraging natural resource conservation.
Complementary actions were to include gradual replacement of export taxes with
a federal land tax based on unimproved market value; eliminating import tariffs
on agricultural inputs; making herbicide and fertilizer use more economical; and
broadening lines of credit for private investment in the sector.
Aaricultural Institutions and the Policy Relationship
1.18       SAGyP, the Secretariat (now Sub-Secretariat) of Agriculture, Livestock
and Fisheries, is a dependency of ME. This has meant that policies affecting the
sector have traditionally been based largely on ME (and its Secretariat of
Finance) initiatives, with SAGyP acting as technical adviser rather than policy-
maker and planner. Sectoral policies have, as a result, often been subordinated
to short-term macroeconomic expediences authorized by ME.  Within the public
sector apparatus, therefore, SAGyP does not reflect the importance which the
sector has in the economy, especially in relation to exports.5/
if  IBRD, OD cit.  Since international price fluctuations have an impact on the CPI and real
wages, successive governments have sought to neutralize these changes through the use of exchange
rate manipulations and export taxes.
5/  IBRD, Argentina: Agricultural Sector Review, Report No.7733-AR, Volume I, June 30, 1989.



- 6 -
1.19       Political instability has caused the rapid turn-over of Secretarie8
of Agriculture who have tended to be either technically-oriented and independent
of sectoral pressures, trying to design policies to improve sectoral incentives,
or representatives of the sectoral interests themselves acting as a channel for
the agrarian lobby. The resulting inconsistency of agricultural policy-making
has contrasted sharply with the constancy of export taxes. This more permanent
form of intervention has been due to the presence of pressure groups which have
limited the autonomy of government and placed strong restrictions on the
instrumentation of economic policy.i'
1.20       This relationship had important implications for the preparation and
subsequent implementation of the Agricultural Sector Loan. Its core concept, the
reduction of export taxes and their substitution by a FLT, represented a profound
restructuring of the tax regime initiated and advocated by SAGyP, not ME, and
resulted from a long-standing and hitherto sterile debate between the Government
and interest groups as to how best to tax agriculture. To SAGyP, export taxes
were a malicious measure counteracting other efforts on behalf of agriculture,
and needing eventual abolition as part of a long-term rationalization of
agricultural inc ntives.   Importantly, SAGyP did not view the land tax as a
substitute for export taxes, but rather as a separate and beneficial measure
which would bring order to the tax system, i.e., have a range of collateral
benefits. It was supported in this effort by several influential farmer groups
including CONINAGRO (the producer cooperative movement) and the Federaci6n
Agraria (medium and small farmers), and the policy issue was part of the platform
of the Radical Party of President Alfonsin.
1.21       However, in its quest for genuine sectoral reform, SAGyP's trajectory
was very different from ministries whose -ocus was the economy at large, who saw
agriculture as the comparatively successful sector, and who had little interest
in, or commitment to, structural change. Evidence suggests that the Bank did not
fully understand, or was unwilling to address, the implications of this
fundamental conflict, which found SAGyP isolated in the Executive Branch and the
Bank with only a partially-developed dialogue (mostly with SAGyP) on which to
base major change.
Bank Grouv Operations in Argentina
1.22       Bank lending to Argentina up to 1985 had been sporadic, the result of
recurring macroeconomic and sectoral difficulties. Between 1979 and 1985, non-
agricultural lending comprised ten loans totalling US$1.045 billion, focussed on
61 Adolfo C. Sturzenegger, o2 cit. Sturzenegger describes conflicting interests between the
economic team of the Government (Minister of Economy and his Treasury, Finance and Domestic Trade
secretaries) and the Secretary of Agriculture. Since export taxes have been seen as a virtually
irreplaceable instrument to accomplish the objectives of decision-makers, there has been a
constant conflict between governments, who always preferred high export taxes, and rampean
interests who wanted them reduced or eliminated. As noted above, the more technically-oriented
Agriculture Secretaries sought policies to reconcile Pampean development with government
purposes.



-7-
major infrastructure projects and credit for the industrial and hydrocarbon
sectors. Bank operations in the agriculture sector since the mid-1960s had been
limited to three projects. The Balcarce Livestock Development Project (Ln.505-
AR), approved in 1967, was designed to encourage the adoption of new technology
in pasture production and management and in animal health practices.
Implementation spanned 12 years and results were mixed due to high inflation,
economic and sector policies non-conducive to sectoral investment, and the cattle
cycle. An Agricultural Credit Project (Ln.1564-AR), approved in 1978, was to
provide medium- and long-term credit for on-farm investments.   However, an
unfavorable investment climate and large inflows of competitive low-cost capital
from foreign commercial banks caused its cancellation in 1980 without
disbursement. Lastly, the Grain Storage Project (Ln.1521-AR), approved in 1978
and reformulated in 1983, aimed at expanding national grains storage capacity,
and at upgrading rail and port grain transport and handling facilities. By 1985,
disbursements were still only 19% of the loan and implementation was hampered by
serious institutional and financial problems.
II. Identification. Preparation and Appraisal
Introduction.
1.23       Several  important  internal  considerations  spurred  the  Bank's
development of this loan. First, policy-based lending was still a comparatively
new mechanism in the Bank.   The dual possibilities of rapid disbursement
supporting major policy change while alleviating acute foreign exchange shortages
created considerable enthusiasm for such lending.   In the Region, Ecuador,
Uruguay, Panama and Brazil already had AGSALs underway or pending and Argentina
seemed ready for such an operation. A new democracy in Argentina lent added
impetus. Secondly, the Baker Plan announced in October, 1985, committed the Bank
to a US$9.0 billion share in assisting debtor nations develop their way out of
debt. Thirdly, agricultural lending in Argentina had been modest and sporadic
(para 22) and the Region had taken a decision to develop a lending pipeline. No
recent agricultural sector work existed, however, on which to construct an
informed dialogue, and thus the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) of June, 1984
became the principal blueprint, largely pre-selecting the policy issues and loan
concept.
1.24       Three policy areas were identified by the CEM as being crucial to
economic stabilization: (_) the chronic causes of the public sector deficit,
especially tax administration; (b) export promotion; and (c) weaknesses in the
financial system. Concerning the agricultural sector, the CEM noted that yields
were low and that much could be done to improve cost/benefit ratios to promote
fertilizer use, especially on grains.  Price stability was needed to promote
large-scale adoption of improved technologies. The CEM's arguments for export
tax and import tariff removal were persuasive.   It asserted that the entire
Argentine farming system would be transformed, and that overall agricultural
production would rise by at least 10-15X (grains by up to 50%), the result of



-8
more intensive use of plant protection materials and farm machinery, as well as
more productive croppino, patterns.
1.25       The CEM recommended gradual replacement of agricultural export taxes
and import tariffs on inputs by other revenue measures, preferably a land tax,
thereby producing rapid and significant increases in the production of
Argentina's principal export crops.   In order to be an effective policy
instrument and to have these desired effects, however, its burden on the taxpayer
had to be considerable.   It concluded that a land tax was preferable on
developmental grounde to an agricultural income tax or value-added tax, would be
easier to collect, and would transfer the burden of agricultural taxation away
from those producing for export and cause it to fall more heavily on domestic
producers of high-value products. Surprisingly, the CEM made no mention of the
interchangeable use of export taxes and the exchange rate (para 14 and Annex III)
or the central significance of a stable exchange rate policy to an export-
dependent agricultural sector.
1.26       Land Taxes in Argentina.  Taxes on rural property in Argentina have
been viewed periodically as instruments of agricultural policy.   Not easily
enacted, they have proved even harder to implement. A preliminary draft law of
1964 sought to reform farm taxation by changing the method of calculating farm
income, but was not approved. In 1969, efforts were made to use a proportional
land tax levied jointly by the national and provincial governments, in
conjunction with income taxes, to reward efficient agricultural producers and
penalize those who under-utilized their land. After a few years, this system was
abandoned. Again, in 1973, the Congress approved a tax on the potential net
income of land but it was never implemented. A similar draft law in 1974 did not
proceed. Rural property taxes devolved once more exclusively to the provinces,
where they had become a familiar though modest revenue tool. In a number of
provinces, notably Buenos Aires, C6rdoba and Entre Rios, well-designed and
technically well-managed legal and fiscal cadastere exist which were seen as good
models  for a federal  system.    In general,  however,  provincial  land  tax
administration was poor, collections low and evasion widespread.7'
Loan Preparation
1.27       An exploratory mission in mid-1984 identified a credit project and an
extension/research project; it was felt that both could be co-financed with the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in 1985, if arrangements could be made
rapidly. However, the IDB was active in Argentina at this time and ultimately
proceeded independently with two similar operations which made no demands on the
GOA with regard to sectoral reforms. Thus, neither opportunity materialized for
the Bank.  The new democratic government under President Alfonsin was str"- ?ling
to formulate policy in a deteriorating economy, little sector work ex sted on
which to base a dialogue, and the results of discussions with the Government were
7/ Under agricultural and livestock emergency laws (Emerpencia Agropecuaria), the Secretary of
Agriculture can declare a district to be in a "state of emergency", resulting in tax forgiveness
for up to five years. Evidently, up to 102 of rural districts are declared tax exempt in this
manner each year.



-9-
inconclusive. Nevertheless, it was tentatively concluded that the Bank's short-
term strategy for agricultural development in Argentina could focus on projects
with short gestation periods, rapid disbursement and export bias.
1.28       The early germ of an AGSAL envisaged a modified investment program
with no policy conditionality, focussing on financing imports of yield-augmenting
inputs, e.g., fertilizers, agro-chemicals and farm machinery.  An AGSAL was seen
to avoid uncertainties associated with institutional credit at that time. The
CEM went much further, however, urging policy dialogue and reforms as necessary
conditions for Bank lending. The logical step up from removal of import levies
was removal or reduction of export taxes, which clearly needed more time, study,
and close consultation with the IMF because of the revenue implications. Further
exploratory missions in 1984 produced the outline of an AGSAL with policy
conditionality to be aimed at promoting increased production and exports.
1.29       In  September,  1984,  during  informal  discussions  for  an AGSAL,
Argentine officials asked the Bank to finance a short-term agricultural recovery
program, citing bold recent measures to reduce distortions.   These included
almost total removal of fertilizer import levies and other import taxes, major
reductions in ad valorem taxes, and maintenance of positive real interest rates
on agricultural credit despite very high inflation. Dialogue was seen focussing
on the removal of export taxes on grains and their substitution by an alternative
revenue mechanism. Staff warned of likely delays in implementing such reform,
which might necessitate a series of loans.
1.30       Issues Paper.   Noting the "long-term commitment" in Argentina to
eliminating export taxes on grains, the Issues Paper (November, 1984) outlined
an AGSAL based on export tax substitution with the inclusion of studies designed
to guide medium-term policy and institutional reform. Export tax reform would
take longer than the implementation period of the loan, but could be agreed based
on a time-bound program.  It was decided to leave the matter of an over-valued
currency out of discussions with the Government, but to ensure that loan
conditionality underscored exchange rate compliance with the existing IMF
agreement.
1.31       The Preparation Mission of November, 1984 concluded that export taxes
should be replaced as a source of fiscal revenue, preferably with a land tax,
within the context of a complete review of the tax system.  It was evident,
however, that the GOA was divided on the loan concept. First, the Ministry of
Economy claimed it had not formally approved the mission, and was both unprepared
and reluctant to discuss substantive issues. Mission plans to meet with the
Minister of Economy fell through and senior level staff were not available.
Second, during the mission, much-publicized policy reforms were retracted. Most
importantly, export taxes were raised to help offset the 6.82 devaluation
effected in late October, under the IMF standby arrangement. GOA officials (and
the IMF) stressed that these measures were purely temporary, necessary to
alleviate an immediate fiscal crisis.
1.32       Just before the November mission, SAGyP had released a draft of the
National Agricultural Development Program (PRONAGRO) for 1984-87 (para 17). It



- 10 -
was a coherent policy statement, but was unfortunately explicit in retaining the
concept of a price-stabilizing export tax, stating:
"A stabilization of agricultural prices will be promoted through
a flexible policy of export taxes in order to regulate variations
that the country,  as a price taker, does not control.   The
flexible use of export taxes means using them as an instrument of
incomes policy for the sector and avoiding their utilization for
only fiscal purposes".
The Bank's Aide Memoire stressed the importance of full substitution to prevent
reinstatement, pointing out that while it was technically possible to maintain
both taxes, continued discretion in export tax use reduced incentives and
depressed farmer confidence.
1.33       The issue of export tax elimination versus reduction is exceedingly
important, and the Bank's attitude on the issue shifted over time. There is no
discussion of what elimination really entailed; removing them from the statute
books through congressional action meant something quite different from, say,
reducing them to zero with Goverrment agreement to keep them there. Evidence
suggests that SAGyP saw elimination as a distant, ideal goal, with substantial
reductions equating with reform in the medium term. SAGyP's real focus, along
with producer groups, was to remove discretion in export tax use, which was seen
as needing legislation. The Initiating Memorandum (para 36) included this as
part of the evolving loan strategy, but no concrete expression followed in loan
design.Y8
1.34       Despite these set-backs, the missior. recommended the Bank's favorable
consideration of a sector loan to Argentina if a policy framework could be agreed
with the GOA. The loan would be around US$200 million for two years, authorized
in tranches, and serviced through a revolving fund. Som" 601 would be disbursed
against fertilizer imports.   Loan size had to be large enough to permit a
significant export tax reduction, not only to motivate policy change but to
substitute directly for tax revenues foregone. A second loan, or even a series
of loans, was envisaged to complete the process.
1.35       Loan processing was gathering a momentum not matched by the quality
of the dialogue or by the extent of commitment in Argentina.  Telexes of the
period convey a sense of the Bank pressing the GOA to provide a formal, written
request for the loan. However, economic policy formulation and implementation
were in disarray at the end of President Alfonsin's first year in office,
macroeconomic conditions were again deteriorating and the economic team had just
been replaced.
1.36       The Initiatint Memorandum.   The principal elements of the loan
strategy required: (a) a rational statement of agricultural policy (PRONAGRO
Of The issue of elimination was not raised again until the Bank began to assess its options for
release of the second tranche, once passage of the FLT became unlikely.



11 -
being described as a first, imperfect step); (b) total abolition of export taxes
on agricultural commodities as soon as a viable substitute could be found (with
a complementary study on feasible substitutes within the context of an overall
taxation review);91  (C) GOA commitment to rational exchange rate policies
beyond 1985 (the IMF arrangement called for a foreign exchange policy that
generated a trade surplus, but only covered 1985); and (d) selective removal of
restrictions on imported inputs. The two essential steps to land tax enactment
were to be an updating and upgrading of the cadaster and congressional passage
of the required legislation. Importantly, the Initiating Memorandum (IM) stated
that reintroduction of export taxes was to be by congressional approval only.
1.37       Loan funds were to be disbursed to cover revenues lost from export tax
reductions, i.e., direct substitution. Guarantees of follow-on loans would be
needed to see the GOA through a program lasting four years or more. The proposed
first loan amount had almost doubled since the mission of November, 1984 -- from
US$200 million to US$360-370 million -- in order tos (a) motivate GOA to carry
out major agricultural policy reform; and (b) permit a significant and early
reduction in export tax rates.  A second loan of about US$265 million would
follow to complete the process, unless the FLT became partly operational in the
interim.
1.38       The strategy assumed that the fear of serious economic repercussions
would deter the Government from backsliding on its program to build producer
confidence.   This assumption was dubious in view of evidence that producer
confidence had had short shrift for decades and benefits foregone from misguided
policies had long been an accepted cost of economic management. Similarly, a
public statement of policy intent was expected to bind the GOA to sustained
reform, even though widely-heralded measures had been revoked under fiscal
pressure just six months earlier.
1.39       Risk Assessment.  The strategy was acknowledged to be risky in the
following respects: (a) four years might be inadequate to secure the reforms
sought, miring the Bank in a protracted and costly commitment; (b) uneven
progress in fvture IMF/Argentine agreements could delay second tranche release
and jeopardize processing and approval of a second sector loan; (c) budgetary
pressures might force the GOA to raise export tax rates again; and (d) the US and
the EEC might radically alter their agricultural support programs, adversely
affecting international markets in which Argentina was operating.
1.40       Reaction of the IMF.  The IMF criticized key aspects of the strategy
as follows:
(a)    It rejected firmly the substitution of borrowed funds for fiscal
revenues, viewing it as extremely risky especially if implementation
were to become protracted.   Export taxes might be economically
9/ The land tax was seen as "probably the best substitute" because of its positive impact on
production. However, studies to confirm this would be carried out simultaneously with a complex
series of actions to enact the land tax and prepare its cadastral base.



- 12 -
inefficient, but reducing them before instituting a new tax was
believed to be unjustifiable, especially in a country with chronic
public deficit problems, and tax reform could be interrupted at any
time. Further, the agricultural sector would object strongly to the
introduction of a land tax after even partial relief from export
taxes, seeing it as an additional tax on the sector;
(b) Once reduced to some rational level, the export tax rate needed to be
locked in to avoid the historical oscillation which had discouraged
producers, and set at uniform rates for all products. Basing rates
on relative supply elasticities, as proposed by the Bank, was
believed technically difficult to formulate and hard to explain to
officials and to the public; and
(c) It viewed unfavorably the Bank's suggested collaboration on an
exchange rate strategy, citing jurisdictional parameters between the
two institutions (which meant that the Bank had to fall back on much
weaker understandings in loan conditionality, and hope for the best).
1.41       Loan Viability and Timeliness.  The evolving discussion and the IMF's
reaction cast doubt on the fundamental practicality of the central concept in the
Argentine context. The Bank continued to assert (despite IMF disagreement) that
the time was opportune for t&x reform, citing GOA and private support. While it
was agreed that the substitution of a land tax for export taxes would make
Argentina highly unusual in the developing world, it was believed its latent
potential to change rapidly, given the will, made it atypical of most developing
countries. However, IMF objections to the concept of using loan funds to
substitute for lost fiscal reveslues made it imperative that alternative interim
taxes be found to maintain farmers' tax burden at then-current levels. Whether
these levels were appropriate or optimal was not kro,wn, and whether such interim
measures should have any specific relation to agriculture was not discussed.
1.42       Realizing that its knowledge of the proposed loan's wider fiscal and
legal context was inadequate and that the magnitude of the tax changes proposed
would raise questions, the Bank included studies of a revised agricultural tax
system with submission of terms of reference for the study a condition for
disbursement.   However, conducting studies to determine fundamental matters
affecting policy changes which were themselves the central feature of the program
to be supported by the proposed loan merely iilustrated the weak analytical base
upon which the loan was built.
1.43       The evolving design envisaged a two-year operation of about US$300
million, to be disbursed against general imports (even though the trend in sector



- 13 -
loans at the time was to finance imports directly related to the sector)1' and
reform-oriented studies, with tranches to be released in accordance with progress
in substituting land and other taxes for export taxes.  Reductions in export
taxes announced in early 1985 would secure first tranche release, with further
reductions necessary for the second tranche. Importantly, it still called for
elimination of export taxesl' over a pre-determined period (most likely two
sector  loans),  despite  the  statements  contained  in  PRONAGRO.    Land  tax
introduction was expected to take about one year (presumably from the date of
Board approval or effectiveness) based on totally unrealistic assurances from
SAGyP regarding the technical base and political acceptability of such a change.
Exchange rate requirements were very weak, calling for commitment to the
principles embodied in the IMF agreement for the duration of the loan.
1.44       Dialogue Development.  Despite a formal written request for the loan
from the Minister of Economy (March 18,1985), and despite the magnitude of the
loan and its political sensitivity, the quality of the discussion with the GOA
was inadequate. For example: (a) the Bank had only sketchy information about
draft land tax legislation then under GOA review; (b) recent reductions in export
tax rates had occurred without the Bank being informed. The Bank cited these
reductions as evidence of the GOA's commitment to the loan concept. In fact,
they were extraneous to the loan context and reflected the GOA's normal response
to the commodity marketing cycle (export tax rates tended to decrease after peak
export periods) and renewed macroeconomic deterioration; (c) the Bank mission of
November, 1984, had been told by the Secretary of Agriculture that the
introduction of a land tax would be difficult and protracted, yet by April, 1985,
SAGyP apparently saw it as possible within a year to 18 months; and (d) the
Bank's main contacts with Government concerning the loan were still limited to
SAGyP. Despite the majcr fiscal implications of the proposed loan, dialogue
with the Ministry of Economy and its Secretariat of Finance remained minimal and
they continued to act unilaterally on matters central to the loan concept and
objectives.
1.45       Loan Size.  Deciding upon and justifying the loan size reflected the
Bank's preoccupation with resource transfer objectives, 12/ the lack of technical
expertise in public finance and the loan's inadequate analytical base. For
10/ There were, at the time, no restrictions on the acquisition of foreign exchange for imports
of agricultural inputs. The limited volume of eligible agricultural imports would not have
allowed quick drawdown of each tranche.
A more important reason riy have been that the IDB was well advanced in its preparation of a
credit operation through Banco de la Naci6n (BNA) to finance agricultural inputs and investments.
This project threatened to compete with the Bank's proposed AGSAL if it were to finance only
sector-related imported inputs, limiting the size of the Bank's loan to the few items not covered
by the IDB operation.
"Ii "Elimination" meant "near-elimination", in fact, due to the Bank's desire for the
continuation of the INTA cess, a 1.5Z levy on agricultural exports to finance agricultural
research and extension services.
i1V The loan was described at this time as increasing the Bank's exposure in Argentina, which had
been declining, and equating to the average lending program then planned for Argentina in each of
the following five fiscal years.



- 14 -
example, the following questions were raised: (a) should the loan simply reflect
projected export tax reductions, i.e., directly compensate for the gap; (b)
should it be guided essentially by what the Bank wanted to lend Argentina at this
time, as part of an expanded lending program; (c) should it equate to the income
volume re-distributed from consumers to producers as a result of ,rice increases-
-a very difficult exercise; or (d) should it be sized according to what was
judged adequate to make profound policy change palatable in Argentina? There was
no attempt to link loan size analytically to the planned adjustment process
except for (a), a proposal which was quickly quashed by the IMF.
1.46       Land Tax Legislation.   The potential political difficulties  of
congressional approval of federal land tax legislation received little attention
until the final version of the Initiating Memorandum and Loan Committee
discussion.-31 Even then, they were downplayed. The Bank saw advantage in the
land tax being part of the political platform of the President's Radical Party.
As time passed, however, the land tax became increasingly controversial, and with
mid-term elections drawing near, the Radical Party was forced to back away from
it. While the Bank clearly could not step directly into the political arena on
behalf of loan objectives, it neglected any serious analysis of the Congressional
process and players.   Instead, the Executive was entrusted with pushing for
passage of controversial legislation about which it was highly ambivalent.
1.47       Loan Committee Review.    The Loan Committee  noted,  first,  that
enactment of legislation as a tranche condition was somewhat unusual but not
expected to pose major difficulty.  The GOA (almost certainly meaning SAGyP only)
was Ifairly confident" it could get legislative approval. However, when the Bank
subsequently sought to hasten congressional passage by proposing it as a
condition for first tranche release, SAGyP said the Government covld not
intervene in the legislative process.41 Many precedents existed, however, for
the Executive's willingness to push for congressional passage of laws it
supported.  Secondly, the Loan Committee questioned the wisdom of substituting
an easily-collected tax at a time of very high inflation and economic
deterioration, but was assured that "revenue neutrality" was an essential feature
of the loan, a position which was subsequently reversed (para 55). Lastly, the
Loan Committee believed that US$250 million was a more appropriate loan size,
although it is not clear why. The committee left the door open to a loan of up
to US$350 million, if appraisal showed that the operation would accelerate reform
and if upcoming negotiations with the IMF and commercial banks were to bear
fruit.
1.48       The strategy assumed that land tax establishment and the shift from
indirect to direct taxation would lock in long-term change and prevent
reinstatement of export taxes once the loan was fully disbursed. However, since
1 A Nay 16, 1985, memorandum asserts that major emphasis would be given during appraisal to the
procedural implications of the taxation strategy i.e., Congressional approval and central-
provincial tax jurisdiction. However, the Issues Paper of July 12, 1985, reporting on the
appraisal mission's findings, makes no reference to either.
141 Aide Memoire, June 13, 1985.



- 15 -
export taxes were to be retained, ostensibly for "income stabilization" purposes,
with no provision for fixing reductions, and given the doubts surrounding the
dialogue and commitment to the lo. n concept, this was wishful thinking.
Reinstatement was not only possible but likely. The Loan Committee nevertheless
endorsed the idea of a two-tranche sector loan: the first, in mid-1986, for
actions already taken, and a second, in January, 1987, for a 502 export tax
reduction and introduction of a federal land tax, the latter action being
described as the main purpose of the loan.
Loan ADvraisal
1.49       During the Appraisal Mission of June, 1985, the GOA again raised
export taxes (by 8-9%) and tariffs on imported inputs (by 10%), under pressure
from the deficit reduction requirements of a new IMF standby arrangement
(supporting the Austral Plan). Fiscal revenues generated by export taxes rose
by 35X, implying that a land tax, according to the parity idea, would also have
to generate more revenue. The mission concluded, in a repetition of November,
1984, that these were temporary measures necessary to stabilize the economy and
not prejudicial to the GOA's medium- and long-term strategy regarding
agricultural taxation. It recommended that loan processing should continue and
that the new (June, 1985) export tax rates be used as the basis for revenues
needed from a land tax.
1.50       These events should have halted loan processing, as a prelude to a
complete re-assessment of the operation's feasibility. In particular, the Bank
should have realized that the export tax rate increases were the predictable GOA
response to then-recent devaluations of the currency and that export taxes and
domestic currency over valuation were, in practice, two sides of the same coin.
Further, such fluctuations were always temporary, and not a deviation from some
longer-term strategy, since none existed. The Bank's hands were completely tied
on the issue of the exchange rate, adverse movements in which could wipe out any
achievements the loan might bring.
1.51       The mission proposed several modifications to loan conditionality:
(a) the loan should be disbursed in three tranches over two years based on the
new assessment that one year would be insufficient to complete the land tax
implementation process;-1/ (b) presentation to Congress of a draft law
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition for negotiations; (c) export taxes
would be rolled back to their May, 1985 (i.e., pre-increase) levels as a first
tranche condition;161 (d) Congressional passage of a land tax would be a second
tranche condition; and (e) the third tranche would require export tax reduction
151 The expectation that a land tax law could be passed, regulated and implemented even in
limited form by 1986 was quite unrealistic. Senior Management and Bank review staff believed 5-6
years was a minimum for its basic implementation and that the regulatory process itself was
potentially fraught with problems.
161 May, 1985 became a benchmark for export tax reductions, because under the Plan Austral the
GOA began to raise tax rates and the Bank had to pre-empt development of a "moving target" in
order to establish loan conditionality.



- 16 -
to 50Z of May,  1    levels.   Land tax implementation would be effected in
January, 1986 (at modest levels) and woald substitute fully for the decline in
fiscal revenues by the beginning of 1988.   The loan size remained at US$250
million.
1.52       The mission's Aide Memoire called on the GOA to include in the text
of a new land tax law the article of PRONAGRO stating that retenciones  would
only be used for price stabilization purposes because "producers should feel
confident that the tax on land is not an additional tax on the sector".  Such a
move would legislatively sanction the continued use of export taxes,
contradicting the Bank's urgings for their elimination. Evidence suggests that
the Bank's thinking had shifted to the acceptance of export taxes at lower
levels, given the dimensions of the reductions sought, i.e., a drop from 35% to,
say,  102  became  a  satisfactory  goal."'    Further,  the  actual  level  of
"stabilizing" export taxes was envisaged as complementing land tax revenues in
order to maintain producers' tax burden at the same level. However, experience
showed why reassurances about complementarity and restricted use could not be
expected to promote producer confidence. Under such circumstances, the land tax
was an additional measure.
1.53       The Decision Memorandum.  The belief that recent increases in export
tax rates were temporary was reiterated in the Decision Memorandum (DM), which
concluded that incentives for sgriculture had improved owing to a recent
devaluation of the Argentine currency which overcompensated the June, 1985
increase in export taxes.  On this basis, export tax reductions required for
first tranche release would roll back rates to those existing in May, 1985, since
the new rates, if translated into a compensating land tax, might institutionalize
an excessive tax burden on agriculture. Several i ues arise here:
(a)    Producers'  returns  undoubtedly  did  improve  from  the  temporary
"windfall" but, inured as they were to such gyrations, it is doubtful
whether they would have regarded such a windfall as an incentive;
(b)    The Bank lacked the data on which to assess the appropriateness of
the new or previous export tax rate as a basis for the land tax,
leading to a decision that the loan should finance a study of the
overall tax incidence in the agricultural sector in order to
determine what farmers were paying and what they should pay (the
"tax burden" study).181 This exceedingly important analysis should
have been done at the outset, and might have provided a range of
171 Compared to the Uruguay Sector Loan (Ln. 2468-UR), where vigorous efforts were made by the
Bank to achieve Government compliance at zero, a drop of merely 102.
IA' The preliminary results of that study revealed that agricultural producers were subject to a
considerable number of tax measures but were only paying a small fraction of them, which tended
to strengthen the hand of those opposed to reducing easily-collected export taxes. Since many of
thase taxes are based on gross revenue and assets, and not on profitability or the ability to
pay, the study showed that in most cases full compliance with all taxes was simply not possible
from the producers' cash flow.



-17 -
revenue options to compare with the SAGyP/CEM concept, which appears
to have been adopted without question; and
(c)    Export taxes and the land tax arguably had no linkage.   This is
certainly a thesis strongly supported by the farmers' groups. Trying
to match land tax revenue capability to export tax reductions was a
simplistic, direct exchange approach which failed to understand the
different roles of each instrument.   Evidence suggests that the
Ministry of Economy (specifically the Secretariat of Finance) was
strongly averse to such a trade-off, precisely because it understood
the difference, and was probably content to have the two taxes in
force. 19'
1.54       Loan Design -- Technical and Political Feasibility.  Important and
prescient questions about the feasibility of specific aspects of the program to
be supported by the loan were raised by the Bank's oversight units (OPS, AGR),
prompting a post-appraisal mission focussing on the practicality of the land tax
implementation schedule.   Essentially, they believed that conflicts between
stabilization and longer-term reform would be resolved by sacrificing the latter
(a tendency already demonstrated during loan preparation), and that prudence
suggested waiting to see if stabilization was working before proceeding with the
loan.   However, the loan's other, competing objective -- rapid balance of
payments relief -- and its momentum and status in the lending pipeline seem to
have prec.uded such an option.   Further,  five to six years seemed a more
realistic period for achieving land tax collections replacing one-half of the
export tax, and not the two years suggested. This produced a major shift, with
land tax passage becoming a first tranche condition, a more demanding
requirement which could not, subsequently, be sustained.20'
1.55      The Bank made two important changes in project design at an informal
meeting of the Loan Committee just before the post-appraisal mission: (a) a full
roll-back of the June, 1985, export tax increase would be a condition of Board
presentation; and (b) the land tax would not have to compensate fully for revenue
lost from further export tax reductions. An overall assessment of agricultural
incentives and alternative means of either reducing public sector expenditures
or raising revenues was needed before stipulating land tax rates. Importantly,
the disbursement profile was fixed at two years, already at the limit of
acceptability for a fast-disbursing loan.
1.56       Post-AMraisal.    The post-appraisal mission confirmed  that  the
schedule derived during appraisal was feasible "as long as all necessary
organizational, adLuinistrative and financial requirements are immediately
attended to and all the necessary federal and provincial support is forthcoming".
M1I A critical difference was that HE would have to share land tax revenues with the provinces,
while it had no such constraint with export taxes.
201 The possibility of a prolonged period between Board approval and effectiveness/first tranche
release, to await FLT passage, was unacceptable.



- 18 _
While true technically, the political obstacles in practice were formidable and
largely insurmountable, at least within the Bank's time-table. For example:
(a)    The discoverj that the Constitution prohibited the Federal
Government from imposing a land tax and the consequent need to
disguise it as a pre-payment of income tax in order to preserve its
congressional chances not only illuminated the Region's poor
knowledge of the loan's legal environment but further alienated the
larger producers who claimed to be already covered by the general
provisions  of  income  tax  law  (which,  of  course,  were  heavily
evaded) ;211
(b)    Resentment  over  the Declaraci6n  Jurada  de  Empadronamiento,  the
landholding disclosure statement required under the draft land tax
legislation to determine tax rate progressivity and ensure equity,
raised  the  prospect  of  protracted  legal  challenges  delaying
indefinitely land tax implementation; 2/ and
(c)    The tax-sharing formula between the provincial and federal
governments and arrangements for federal transfers to provinces
required major negotiation at a time of fiscal austerity, and
considerable tension was evident over tax revenue allocations between
the center and periphery.
!.57       Appraisal of Policy-Oriented Operations.  The internal review of the
project raised important questions about requirements for staff appraisal of
policy-oriented operations. On the one hand, it was suggested that the political
feasibility of policy changes -- which, in the case of the Agricultural Sector
Loan, included national executive, legislative and provincial actions -- was not
part of project appraisal.   It was argued that the Bank should rely on the
judgment of national executive branch officials. On the other hand, such an
approach could jeopardize the effectiveness of policy-based lending, especially
in countries like Argentina where new democracies had decentralized policy-
making. The idea was not that the Bank should become directly involved in the
domestic policy process, but rather that an independent assessment of an
operation's political dimension be made as a normal part of the review
process.-31 As it turned out, the political dimension was a major determinant
211 Under the Constitution, the Federal Government is unable to impose a land tax. In addition,
It is only able to impose an income tax through an emergency law of 1930. It Ws therefore
proposed to classify the "land tax" as a pre-payment of "income tax". The GOA could,
theoretically, have introduced an emergency law allowing it to impose the proposed tax as a land
tax, but Executive branch officials believed its passage would be smoother in the guise of an
advance against income tax using an existing emergency law.
241 It is a truism in Argentina that there are many landholders but few farmers. Owning land has
traditionally been an effective way of evading taxes. The discovery process implicit in the
Declaraci6n aroused images among the susceptible of left-wing intervention and land reform.
23/ Memorandum, August 26, 1985.



- 19 -
of loan implementation ard dependence on the judgment of a divided executive a
serious mistake.
1.58       The President's Report.  The draft President's Report reflected a
considerable shift from the DM. Most importantly: (a) the proposed loan size
had increased substantially (from US$250 million to US$311 million); (b) the
required export tax reductions had been cut back (from 50% of May, 1985 levels
to 70Z)24 and had moved from a first to a second tranche condition; and (c)
there was no longer any clear requirement for legislative approval or
implementation of a national land tax. Legislative passage had moved from being
a first tranche condition to being a vaguely-worded second tranche requirement,
now put in terms of "satisfactory progress" on a comprehensive schedule of land
tax-related actions.  The Loan Agreement is equally unspecific.   Apparently,
Argentine sovereignty concerns meant that terms like "passage" and precise dates
for such action had to be omitted lest they be construed as pressure on national
decision-making.251 No doubt remained, however, following negotiations, as to
the meaning of "satisfactory progress" (para 61).
1.59       Bank review staff perceived such changes as a shifting and unclear
approach to loan conditionality, reflecting pressure to present the loan to the
Board of Directors prematurely. Taking the loan to the Board before land tax
passage risked the final legislation departing significantly from the draft
forming the basis of Board approval (para 70), as well as inordinate delays in
loan disbursement if the proposed law stalled in the Congress.   The AGR
memorandum is quite clear on this, viz: "The standard against which the success
or failure of this large operation will ultimately be determined is nothing less
than a meaningful and productive implementation of this new federal tax". 26/
Further, the analytical connection between the structural change proposed and the
ongoing IMF stabilization effort was vague, as were the effects of proposed tax
changes in the absence of strict revenue neutrality.
1.60       Negotiations.  The loan proceeded to the negotiating stage with the
loan amount increased again to US$350 million.   Based on the post-appraisal
mission's favorable assessment of loan feasibility, negotiations were conditioned
on:   (a) presentation of the GOA's macroeconomic and agricultural policy
statement with specific reference to export tax reductions and land taxation; (b)
a detailed proposal for alternative interim revenues to maintain IMF fiscal
ceilings; and (c) verification of federal land tax administrative capacity. With
regard to (b), a package of fiscal measures (initially confidential) was defined
as a condition of loan effectiveness, and included increased fuel and tobacco
taxes, a tax amnesty, and a tax on financial transactions.
241 The reduction in export taxes to 702 of the May, 1985, rates, instead of the earlier planned
502, was due to the need to keep the stabilization plan in place, i.e., meet the target of a
public sector deficit of 3X of GDP, since export taxes at that time (early 1986) represented
about 1Z of GDP.
251 The Bank no longer allows such concerns to affect the specificity of loan legal documents.
261 Memorandum, October 18, 1985.



- 20 -
1.61       Negotiations were concluded on January 17, 1986, essentially on the
terms and conditions approved by the Loan Committee in December, 1985, but with
several changes affecting the phasing of import liberalization on tractors,
agricultural machinery and chemicals, and of export tax reductions. In the case
of tractors and machinery, the GOA claimed that it needed leeway to avoid
penalizing domestic manufacturers during the stabilization period and to design
better credit facilities for the local product.   However,  in the case of
chemicals and export taxes, the Argentine negotiators' principal concern was
complying with the IMF standby arrangement's fiscal deficit targets which again
can be seen clashing with the thrust of the Bank's loan. Importantly, and at the
specific request of Senior Management, the Minutes of Negotiations stated that
enactment and initial implementation of the federal land tax would be criteria
of "satisfactory progress" under the land tax schedule for second tranche
release.
Obiectives and Conditions of the Loan
1.62       Loan Obiectives.  The loan was intended to support the Government's
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve the macroeconomic
framework within which the agricultural sector operated. The Government's letter
of development policy (Annex IV) essentially described the main elements of the
Austral Plan of June, 1985, (para 5) including the following five major
categories of complementary agricultural policy reforms:   (a) exchange rate
policy; (b) export incentives; (c) revenue measures; (d) the trade regime; and
(e) administrative procedures.   The Government viewed these reforms as an
ambitious, medium-term program designed to have a lasting impact on the structure
of Argentine agriculture.
1.63       The fundamental objective of the loan, however, was an increase in
agricultural production and exports through a structural change in federal
taxation away from export taxes, which discourage the production of exportable
crops, to a production-neutral land tax which would improve incentives for more
intensive use of agricultur. 1 resources.   The loan,  as described in the
President's Report, supported the following policy reforms and complementary
activities under the Government's economic stabilization program: (a) a
substantial reduction in export taxes; (b) fiscal measures to maintain the fiscal
deficit at satisfactory levels, including the introduction of a federal land tax;
(c) modified regulations and tariffs pertaining to the import of agricultural
inputs; and (d) complementary studies and institutional support.
1.64       Loan Conditions.  Conditions for the loan were as follows:
(i)   Board Presentation.   Presentation to the Board was contingent on:
(a) submission to Congress of a draft land tax law acceptable to the
Bank; (b) removal of the temporary increases in export taxes imposed
in June, 1985; and (c) presentation of a program, acceptable to the
Bank, for preparation and implementation of the federal land tax.
(ii)   First  Tranche.The  first  tranche of US$170.5 million was  to be
released upon loan effectiveness (and before June 30, 1986), the



- 21 -
conditions for which were:   (a) establishment of the Executive
Committee (para 67); (b) re-designation of tractors and agricultural
machinery to the '"prior approval" classification for imported goods;
and Jc) Government's execution of subsidiary agreements with the
National Grain Board (JNG) and National Meat Board (JNC) for
complementary   studies  and  institutional   support  activities.
Disbursement under the loan component for studies and institutional
support was contingent upon presentation to the Bank of acceptable
terms of reference for the five complementary sectoral studies and
two institutional support components, as well as the agricultural
sector tax burden study (for a listing of studies, see Annex II).
Disbursement also required a satisfactory projeet agreement between
the GOA and UNDP for executing part (c) components.
(iii)   Second Tranche.  To disburse the second tranche of US$170.5 million
(forecast  for  January,  1987),  evidence was  required  of:    (a)
reduction of the export tax rates on agricultural commodities to a
level not to exceed 70X of the rates in force on May 1, 1985, or
other levels to be jointly agreed; (b) the Government having effected
fiscal measures sufficient to compensate for revenue losses resulting
from the export tax rate reduction without increasing the overall
sector tax burden compared to its May 1, 1985 level; (c) the
designation of tractors and agricultural machinery to the "automatic
entry" classification for imported goods, and removal of the 10Z
import surcharge on agricultural chemicals; and (d) satisfactory
progress-27 in the execution of the agreed land tax implementation
schedule and in all studies financed under the loan.
1.65      Institutional Arrangements.  An Executive Committee (EC), chaired by
SAGyP with representatives of the Secretariats of Finance and Interior, was to
oversee the preparation and initiation of the land tax and the sectoral tax
studies. Provincial interests would be represented by the Federal Investment
Council (Consejo Federal de Inversiones).  In each province, advisory committees
consisting of the heads of provincial cadastral, tax collection and computer
centers would be formed to work with the EC. The EC was to be supported by a
working group on overall sectoral tax policy. A Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) advance of US$1.0 million was made to start preparation activities. The
EC was to initiate a series of taxation studies required for full implementation
of the land tax proposal, to be completed by the end of 1987.  The sectoral
taxation working group would analyze the existing tax burden on the agricultural
sector, recommend the proportion of the total tax burden which the sector should
carry, and examine the fiscal alternatives to the export tax.
1.66      The rationale for these arrangements is unclear. Putting SAGyP in the
chair and ME in a peripheral role seems to have reflected the Bank's leaning
towards the more cooperative and representative agency. ME, however, held the
L71 "Satisfactory progress" on the Land Tax Schedule called for implementation of the FLT in
January, 1988.



- 22 -
real power and should have been positioned prominently in the planning and
implementation of the reform program to counteract (to the extent possible) its
opposition to loan objectives.
Board Presentation
1.67       The loan was approved by the Board on April 3, 1986. The draft land
tax legislation was formally sent to Congress by the Executive on the same day
as  Board  presentation,   with  important  clauses   concerning   short-term
implementation in 1986 and 1987 removed at the last minute without Bank approval.
The removal of these clauses was an act of bad faith by the Government and a poor
prognosis for eventual passage of the land tax.  Nevertheless, by the end of
April, the Bank appeared to be convinced that the main loan conditions would be
met on time, and discussion was already underway seeking funds for preparation
of a follow-on loan.
III. Implementation
Effectiveness and First Tranche Release
1.68       Disbursement of the first tranche was delayed by non-compliance with
a number of conditions of effectiveness. This caused some friction due to the
extreme need for the funds. The first tranche of US$170.5 million was released
on September 24, 1986, five and a half months after Board presentation.
Imliementation Experience
1.69       Loan  implementation was  beset with political  and macroeconomic
impediments, most of which could have been predicted.   A summation of the
critical areas of implementation follows. A detailed presentation of compliance
with specific loan conditions is contained in Annex II, with a summary in para
88. The circumstances surrounding release of the second tranche are set out in
paras 77-83.
1.70       The Federal Land Tax.  Legislation to establish a federal land tax
remained stalled in the congressional committees to which it was first refereed
(Agriculture and Budget), with attempts being made to modify it to suit everyone,
a virtually impossible task.   Supervision staff learned that its short-term
implementation clauses had been removed as a result of direct dealings between
the President, whose Radical Party faced a difficult mid-term election, the
Ministry of Economy and pressure groups from the farming sector, notably the
Sociedad Rural Argentina.281  SAGyP was circumvented.  Evidence suggests that
'I The larger farmers, the so-called "ruralismo" movement, made up of the Sociedad Rural
Argentina (SRA) and the Confederaciones Rurales Argentinas (CRA) were totally against land tax
introduction, while the small farmers of the Federaci6n Agraria Argentina (FAA) and the
cooperative movement (CONINAGRO) favored it under certain specific conditions..



- 23 -
the progressive breakdown of the Plan Austral and deteriorating conditions in the
rural sector caused a change in the Executive's willingness to pursue the
project, and provided the opportunity to re-affirm overtly earlier opposition to
the proposed tax.
1.71       Farmer organizations apparently argued that the reductions in export
duties (which by July, 1986, were a weighted average of 18.92% on the nine major
commodities, marginally below the level agreed to for this stage of the loan),
could not either: (a) compensate them for sharply lower world commodity prices;
or (b) in any way be accepted as a auid pro quo for future introduction of a land
tax.   Producers perceived, correctly, that there was little likelihood that
export taxes would be eliminated. A proposal by SAGyP to include elimination of
export taxes in the draft land tax legislation was strenuously opposed by the
Treasury, and there was no other mechanism or strategy under discussion or
implementation to assure the sustainability of export tax rate reductions. The
land tax, in fact, was an additicnal not a replacement tax.
1.72       The Political Dimension.   The resignation in late  1986 of the
Secretary of Agriculture was a fatal blow to the introduction of the federal land
tax and its policy anchor, PRONAGRO. His replacement, a former Radical Party
congressman,   large  farmer  and  Sociedad  Rural  member,   reflected  the
Administration's concern with repairing its political image in the rural sector
after a year involving electoral losses in key provinces and growing
dissatisfaction of farmer organizations with Government policy in the wake of
extremely adverse sector conditions. The Bank believed that the new Secretary
would more readily command support from the rural sector for loan objectives and
thus represented a more promising negotiating partner. He did express initial
support for the land tax proposal, but as a replacement for all other sectoral
taxation (i.e., a unitary tax approach), a move more likely to delay than
facilitate passage of the law and its regulation. Fundamentally, however, his
response to Bank urgings for congressional action was evasive.
1.73       Several other factors were influential.  First, supervision revealed
that project preparation had not addressed promotion of the land tax concept
among farmers despite one of the project's key working papers urging forcefully
that the objectives, advantages and distribution of the proposed land tax be
widely publicized in order to mobilize maximum support.291  This advice was not
heeded. Second, larger farming interests had traditionally and successfully
opposed land taxes for a host of reasons, including ideological. While a land
tax would not necessarily force larger land-owners to change, nevertheless most
of them believed such a tax would disrupt time-honored arrangements. Thus, they
preferred the status q, using their influence to get export taxes reduced if
they were pinching. Their response was historically predictable, irrespective
of macroeconomic circumstances or rational arguments about the benefits which
would ensue from a land tax.
29/ Dr. Jose Marfa Gimeno, Evaluation of a Future National Land Tax in Argentina, IBRD Working
Paper No. 10, 1985.



- 24 -
1.74       Export Taxes.  Export tax rate reductions on major agricultural and
agro-industrial products by late 1986 far exceeded those required under the loan
agreement (i.e., 70Z of May, 1985 levels), but their reduction to zero (in the
case of grains) or to low levels (in the case of oilseeds) was necessitated by
the fall in international commodity prices to historical lows in real terms.
These reductions were consistent with historical patterns of export tax
implementation and had little to do with the loan, as evidenced by subsequent
events. The reductions and the high real effective exchange rate persisted only
as long as the international prices of commodities remained at depressed levels.
After the Spring Plan of August, 1988, IMF exchange rate strictures, which had
for some time operated in unusual tandem with export tax reductions, were
abandoned in favor of a dual (and subsequently a multi-tiered) exchange rate
designed  specifically  to  discriminate  against  agriculture.301    With  the
introduction of a unified exchange rate in May, 1989, (i.e., before loan
closing), export tax rates were raised to very high levels.3'/
1.75       Studies.  The five studies and two programs of institutional support
(to the JNG and JNC) to provide data and analysis for sectoral policies were
successfully completed, with loan funds being administered by the United liations
Development  Program  (UNDF).    The  special  taxation  study,  which  combined
preparation of the technical basis for the land tax with the study to determine
the appropriate level of taxation for agricultural activities and alternative
measures to the land tax, was also completed but with delays. Difficulties were
experienced in establishing convenios with a small number of the provinces, in
order to produce the unified federal-level cadaster from individual provincial
cadasters. The Closing Date of the Loan was extended for one year (to June 30,
1989) to permit its completion, further testament to the complexity of the land
tax issue. Both the GOA and the Bank should be fully aware of the high quality
of these studies and their potential value to future development in the Argentine
agricultural sector. Aspects of the work carried out by the Land Tax Unit in
SAGyP to create a technical basis for the land tax have won several international
prizes for technical excellence.  Other studies have led directly to project
preparation and subsequent loan processing by the Bank. The studies represent
a rare success story under this Loan.
1.76       Imyort Liberalization.   Tractors and agricultural machinery were
transferred from the "prohibited import" list to the "prior approval" category
as a condition of loan effectiveness.  However, their inclusion on the "automatic
entry" list for second tranche compliance was delayed by depressed conditions in
the domestic industry, with firms operating at only 20% of capacity, and the lack
301 Government actions under the Spring Plan aroused tremendous resentment in the farming
comnunity, and provoked the resignation (not accepted) of the Secretary of Agriculture as a show
of solidarity vith farmers. Ironically, he subsequently introduced legislation requiring
Congressional approval of all increases in export taxes, followed by a bill seeking tax reforms,
including elimination of asset and inheritance taxes and their substitution with provincial real
estate taxes. The Ministry of Economy predictably opposed the former, while farmers perceived
the effects of the latter would be similar to the proposed federal land tax. Both measures
failed.
311 IBRD, 2D cit.



- 25 -
of long-term financing to support domestic sales to farmers. In addition, as a
condition of the second tranche, the GOA was required to remove a 10% import
surcharge imposed on agricultural chemicals in June, 1985.  Mhough originally
described as a temporary measure to meet short-term fiscal needs, it was extended
and, in late 1987, increased to 15%. Deficit reduction requirements under a new
INF agreement in early 1988 caused the GOA to retain the surcharge and the Bank
to waive the condition (para 82-83), shifting the issue to a proposed Trade
Policy Loan which would, inter alia, review the Argentine tariff structure across
all sectors. 32/
Reloase of the Second Tranche
1.77       The second tranche was released on June 2, 1988, following protracted
and unusually contentious debate which questioned fundamental aspects of the loan
and exposed the inherent tension between the structural and resource transfer
objectives of this loan and, by implication,  other such operations.   The
following summarizes the elements of the debate and events leading to second
tranche release.
1.78      Disbursement of the second tranche (US$170.5 million) was originally
anticipated for early 1987. By mid-1987, chances for passage by Congress of land
tax legislation, the central (albeit implicit) condition for second tranche
release, were remote. The Bank's initial options included the following: (a) to
press for passage of the law through the limited means available, chiefly by
maintaining an open dialogue; (b) to extend the closing date of the loan, which
would get through the immediate difficulties of an election year, potentially
encounter improved economic circumstances, and permit completion of the sector
tax burden study; (c) to promote farmer acceptance of the land tax by re-opening
the issue of total removal of export taxation from the statute book; and (d) to
encourage the Government to request cancellation of the loan if changed
circumstances (including evaporated commitment) meant it could not meet second
tranche conditions. A proposal to enhance the collection of capital and net
worth taxes was dropped when SAGyP/Bank analysis and discussions with the IMF
cast doubt on their ability to garner substantial revenues.33/
1.79       The Land Tax as Loan Objective.  Arguments were put forward that
implementation of the FLT was not an objective of the loan, merely the means
through which the real structural objective, export tax reductions, could be
effacted   i.e., other means would be equally satisfactory and facilitate
disbursement. However, there are some 47 significant references to the federal
land tax in the President's Report, and the central structural aim of the loan
clearly was to "improve incentives necessary for more intensive use of
'2/ The first Trade Policy Loan (Ln.2996-AR) for US$500 million.
33/ Jorse Mac6n, Sustituci6n de los Impuestos a 108 Capitales v Patrimonio Neto por un Impuesto a
la Tierra, Buenos Aires, August, 1987. (Draft)



- 26 -
agticultural resources to increase production and 4xports14/, of which the
federal l,nd tax was seen as an integral part.
1.80      As the impossibility of imposing a federal land tax became clear,
doubts about the analytical basis of the original proposal, which had been raised
to no effect during project preparation, began to resurface.   These doubts
reinforced the view that, provided other loan conditions were met and provided
other revenue sources could be identified (from inside or outside the
agricultural sector) to compensate for the reduction in export taxes, a waiver
of the specific land tax provision could be justified. Clearly this departed
from the principle of a growth-enhancing shift of the tax burden within the
agricultural sector, but, given the controversy which had surrounded the original
proposal, this departure could be seen as a pragmatic alternative to loan
cancellation. Therefore, in late 1987, and in the light of explanations provided
by the Minister of Economy and Secretary of Finance concerning Argentina's fiscal
adjustment policies and economic obstacles to a land tax, the Bank agreed to
accept for second tranche release a package of fiscal measures which were being
submitted to Congress at that time as a substitute for the land tax and
compensation for the loss of revenue from export tax rate reductions.  This
decision was confirmed following congressional passage of the fiscal package in
January, 1988.
1.81      Following this decision, considerable effort was required to achieve
GOA compliance with several other outstanding conditions affecting trade
liberalization of tractors, agricultural machinery and chemicals.   The GOA
refused to remove the import surcharge on agro-chemicals imposed in mid-1985,
beca-use of IMF standby constraints, and instead raised the tariff to 15% (para
76). The Bank decided to pursue the matter through an upcoming Trade Policy Loan
and not as a sectoral issue.
1.82      Waivers.   The decision to waive the two conditions  (i.e.,  the
implementation of the federal land tax and the removal of the import surcharge
on agricultural chemicals) required approval of the Board of Directors due to the
substantial nature of the modifications being sought to loan conditionality. The
rase for seeking a waiver was based, first, on the acceptance of alternative
fiscal measures as set out in para 80 above, and secondly, on the urderstanding
that the relaxation of import restrictions on tractors and agricultural machinery
was a significant move within the broader trade policy reform then under
discussion with the Bank. The Bank also accepted that satisfactory progress was
being made in the Program of agricultural sector reform, as set out in a letter
addressed from the GOA to the Bank (April 28, 1988).
1.83      The Board discussion revealed the controversial nature of the subject
and, while the waivers were approved, the number of abstentions indicated that
cancellation of the second tranche might have been a preferred course of action
in the interests of the credibility of the Bank and the Argentine Government.
The tranche release secured a resource transfer objective but in an important
34/ IBRD, President's Report, Report No. P-4161-AR, March 14, 1986.



- 27 -
sense reinforced the Argentine "logic" of the short-term solution.  Further,
disbursement without significant policy reform burdensd the GOA with additior 1
debt without improving its capacity to repay, compounding the policy failure and
weakening the Bank's portfolio.3'
Disbursement. Procurement and Audit
1.84       Statements of ExRenditure (SOE) and Disbursement.  The loan used a
standard SOE approach for loan disbursement under Category I (totalling US$341.0
million), but serious difficulties arose prior to first tranche release
concerning procedures to be followed in their preparation and presentation. The
Central Bank (BCRA) was the designated authority for SOE preparation, but it was
reluctant to engage in a protracted exercise with the commercial banks to obtain
the supporting data. Complicating this was the BCRA's justifiable resentment at
having been excluded by the Ministry of Economy from participating in either the
preparation or the negotiation of the loan, and then being given primary
responsibility for withdrawal of the loan proceeds without a detailed plan of
action, the latter indicating poor loan design. The process of sorting this out
delayed first tranche disbursement, causing added friction.
1.85       The BCRA proceeded to accumulate all the SOEs for both tranches.
Serious obstacles were encountered by Bank supervision staff trying to review the
SOEs against which the first trarche was released, the purpose being to ensure
that goods had actually been imported and that over-invoicing had not occurred.
The BCRA was unwilling to allow access to supporting documents from the
commercial banks, citing banking secrecy laws.  High level official intervention
finally resolved  the matter,  enabling the Bank finally to undertake  the
appropriate checks with satisfactory results.
1.86       Procurement. Procurement of goods, which was against general imports,
was straightforward. All reimbursements were made for relatively small amounts,
none of which triggered the requirement for international competitive bidding.
Procurement of consultants was timely and problem-free.
1.87      Audit. Audit compliance under the loan was extremely poor, with clean
audit reports for 1986-1988 still not received by the Bank by mid-1990. The core
of the problem had similar overtones to the SOE situation -- the BCRA would not
allow auditors of the Tribunal de Cuentas de la Naci6n (TCN) access to commercial
bank records, and hence the TCN was obliged to issue a d'sclaimer of opinion on
loan audits, implying uncertainties regarding use of the funds and jeopardizing
the Bank's accountability. The ME accordingly refused to release the disclaimed
audits to the Bank, in the fear that the Bank might seek restitution of loan
funds released. Since the TCN's disclaimer could not be reversed, a new audit
was designed and carried out under carefully controlled circumstances, and a
clean opinion accepted by the Bank in August, 1990.
Ls/ IBRD, Report on Adiustment Lending I1: Policies for the Recovery of Growth, Report No. R90-
51, March 26,1990.



- 28 -
Compliance With Loan Conditions
1.88       Compliance with first tranche conditions was satisfactory, though
delayed.  In the case of the second tranche, compliance was mixed.  Dramatic
reductions in export taxes mirrored political and economic realities not loan
conditions, and were reversed before the loan had closed. Performance under the
federal land tax condition fell far short of the Loan Agreement, as it did also
on trade liberalization of agricultural chemicals. In a number of other cases,
including the adoption of fiscal measures to compensate for lost export tax
revenues, the Bank accepted GOA measures taken as fulfilling loan conditions, but
the packages (in both 1986 and 1988) had little identifiable relationship to, or
impact on, the agricultural sector.   The exchange rate was, of course, not
included in any quantitative conditionality under the loan, apart from the GOA's
commitment, in its Statement of Policy, "to maintain an exchange rate competitive
for exports"; however, the introduction of a multi-tiered rate under the Spring
Plan of August 1988, by definition violated the spirit of the Loan. A detailed
summation of compliance is contained in Annex I.
IV. Economic Evaluation
1.89       The loan provided a large, timely infusion of foreign exchange but
achieved no structural reform on the central issue of agricultural taxation.
The unpredictable mixture of over-valued currency, multiple exchange rates and
export taxes which persisted following the Spring Plan of August 1988, seriously
affected producers' confidence and their ability to plan and make investment
decisions. The production response to the period of low export taxes and high
real value of the currency (early 1986 to August 1988) was therefore low;
producers clearly and correctly interpreted these moves as mere stabilization
measures responding to the all-time low points for many commodity prices on world
markets and not as the first stage of any long-term effort to improve
agricultural incentiv9s.6-1 When the credibility and permanence of reforms are
in doubt, desired shifts in the economic structure are less likely to occur. The
preparation phase of the loan did not establish even minimal conditions for
sustainability.
V. Institutional Performance
The World Bank
I 90       The concept underpinning the loan was arguably a valid one.  However,
the process of re-orientating agricultural taxation from export taxes to a
ml IBRD, Argentina: ARricultural Sector Review, Report No. 7733-AR, Volume II, June 30, 1989.



- 29 -
federal land tax was not well thought out. The loan was prepared and appraised
at a time when resource transfer and an enhanced lending program to Argentina
competed in urgency with policy change.  Thus, loan size bore no relation to the
adjustment  process3'/  and  resources  transferred  did  not  accrue  to  the
agricultural sector.   A smaller loan would,  in any case, have been more
appropriate  for  so inherently  risky  an operation.    This  undermined  the
seriousness of the discussion on policy issues and the Government's commitment
to them.
1.91   Loan conditionality conflicted directly with IMF stabilization regimens,
implicitly involving the GOA in serious conflicts of interest.   The Bank's
experience with sector loans has shown that they must fit into a broader program
of adjustment to have a fair chance of success and sustainability. Stabilization
is not adjustment, but its short-term needs are more compelling and the Bank
should have had a better dialogue with the IMF at all stages, in order to
establish a coherent link between the loan and the IMF's programs.
1.92       Preparation should have been supported by rigorous, operationally-
focussed sector work, a sensible period to assess the durability of the
stabilization program, and careful attention to dialogue developmene and the
political environment. Instead, wishful thinking trod shifting san a. Vital
aspects of the loan's legal, fiscal, political and institutional environment were
only superficially understood.  Sensible advice from the IMF, the Bank's own
review staff and experts retained to examine loan options and feasibility went
largely unheeded. Clear signals were disregarded at important junctures in an
effort to maintain processing momentum. The political constituency for the loan,
and the Bank's dialogue, were confined to the committed but isolated SAGyP, a
fact in evidence early on. The Bank gave the principal role in the planning and
implementation of the reform program to SAGyP, when in fact SAGyP had little
control over the policy instruments and resources most affecting the sector,
e.g., exchange rates, trade policy, and fiscal and monetary policy.
1.93       The Bank should hare made a much greater effort  to establish
sustainability, which in this case rested squarely on the GOA's willingness to
alter permanently its policies, prerogatives, and importantly, its reliance on,
export taxes. The point of sector loans is lost without such an effort, which
should acknowledge the crucial importance of linking balance of payments support
to sustainable reform which results in productive benefits and easier debt
service in the future. SAGyP and farmer groups already had broad agreement on
the need to lock in export tax rate reductions and/or remove their discretionary
use, it was advocated as part of the Bank's earlier loan strategy, and urged
strongly by the 'lM1.   The political and economic  climate  for  land tax
acceptability might have improved markedly.  In fact, the reduction of export
taxes to minimal levels could have been a critical opportunity to achieve
"/ See IBRD, Report on Adjustment Lending II: Policies for the Recovery of Growth, Report No.
R90-51, March 26, 1990. Statistical analysis of adjustment lending revealed that loan size was
generally related to country size, especially as measured by GDP. Larger loans tended to be
given to countries already out of the commercial lending system, as was Argentina by the time of
loan preparation.



- 30 -
permanent change. The Bank's Working Paper No.10, prepared in mid-1985 as part
of loan appraisal, states: "This is an opportune moment to abolish export duties
since the decline in world prices will inevitably force their elimination or
substantial reduction." 38/
1.94       The pivotal importance of the exchange rate was not given sufficient
attention in loan preparation, even though the Bank's hands were tied in terms
of direct intervention. Exchange rate manipulation retains the power to negate
benefits accruing from an established land tax and low (or abolished) export
taxes,  underscoring  the  importance  of  coordinating    agricultural  sector
adjustment with broader macroeconomic change which includes a fundamental
reorientation of Government's thinking on exchange rate policy.
1.95       Supervision was of a high quality, successfully solving problems as
they arose (SOE arrangements, studies, etc.), collecting intelligence on loan
prospects and trying to promote dialogue on loan objectives, the latter effort
mostly uphill.
The Borrower
1.96      Although Congressional approval was required for implementation of the
federal land tax, the ME could probably have mobilized the necessary support to
secure passage if it had been willing to guarantee a permanent reduction in
export tax rates. However, it did not have the commitment or the will to do so
and the Government was divided from the start over loan objectives. SAGyP was
the chief proponent and supporter of the proposed reforms, and the principal
agency for loan implementation, but seemed to lose influence steadily from around
mid-1986. The ME seems to have had little interest ir. structural reform and no
intention of losing a secure source of revenue. The concept of maintenance of
a "low level" of export duties in SAGyP's PRONAGRO statement was clearly the
result of inter-agency manoeuvreing in which ME prevailed.
1.97       The ME was, at best, ambivalent about the federal land tax itself but
was totally opposed to the substitution idea, preferring two taxes in force if
it  came  to  this.    The  removal  of  key  clauses  (concerning  short-term
implementation) in the draft land tax legislation submitted to Congress prior to
Board presentation, was a breach of good faith with the Bank, and appears to have
occurred with ME support.   That ambivalence translated into withholding its
considerable weight from support for passage of the land tax legislation which
violated the spirit of the loan agreement, if not its actual letter (ME's formal
role in the reform program proposed was largely peripheral, despite it being the
entity most affected by the proposed change).
1.98       The ME suppressed its overt objection to the loan concept once SAGyP
was able to convince President Alfonsin of its validity, but its opposition
surfaced again when the political and economic winds shifted. While the Bank's
efforts to construct a dialogue were not sufficiently forceful or persuasive, the
38/ Dr. Joad Maria Gimeno, 22 cit.



- 31 -
HE and its Secretariat of Finance avoided that dialogue. The Bank's transparent
eagerness to make this and successive loans reinforced the HE's tendency to
promise, but not deliver on, policy change in a single-minded pursuit of new
disbursements.
VI. Conclusions and Lessons
Conclusions
1.99      The loan was propelled as much by the Bank's willingness to lend as
by the GOA's need to borrow. The desire within the Bank at the time to implement
a quick-disbursing sector loan created a compelling momentum which was not
matched by the Government's willingness to engage in a meaningful sector
dialogue, or by the Bank's understanding of the political and economic
environment. Essential studies were conducted to create an analytical base for
policy changes simultaneously under implementation as part of the loan. The loan
concept was valid, but represented profound change in an inadequately-designed
package which was superimposed on a difficult political and economic situation,
pre-disposing the loan to failure. While it is a truism that no time is ever
perfect, nevertheless prudence dictated a more cautious, thoughtful and realistic
approach to the loan's environment and design. A vital opportunity was wasted,
one which cannot easily be revived even though the same sectoral discrimination
persists.
Loan Desin
1.100     The continued validity of the concept lends importance to a brief
summary of the more significant flaws in the specific loan and its design, which
included the following:
(a)    The fiscal emphasis of the Bank's approach to reducing export taxes
was too narrow. For example, the Bank should also have focussed on
the industrial protection implications of agricultural export taxes,
and should have insisted on reductions in the differential export tax
rates applied to oilseeds and their processed products, which
represents a transfer from farmers to processors of around US$200
million per year;
(b)    Export tax rate reductions should have been locked-in and their
discretionary use controlled through legislative and/or other
actions, to prevent the oscillation which has been and continues to
be so powerful a disincentive to producers. This might have been,
with the land tax studies, an appropriate first, smaller loan, in
preparation for a second loan addressing land tax legislation;
(c)    The anticipated disbursement of the loan was overly-optimistic and
incompatible with the likely timing of its main conditions, pre-



- 32 -
disposing the loan to problems with second tranche disbursement,
(i.e., export tax reductions could be effected fairly rapidly,
whereas the introduction of the federal land tax would almost
certainly take much longer than the time estimated). Further, this
incompatibility created a fiscal vacuum which was "filled" by ad hoc
measures which deflected the loan's adjustment focus;
(d)    The loan shied away from the implications of instability in exchange
rate policy which remains the "Achilles heel" of even the most
successful program of reducing export taxes and introduc.ng a land
tax. Only a broad, pre-established program of structural adjustment
(of which IMF stabilization efforts were not the equivalent) could
have successfully addressed this central problem;
(e)    Passage ot the land tax legislation should have been a condition of
negotiations.   The extreme riskiness of legislation, its central
significance to the reforms sought, and the size of the loan, made
requirement for its passage up-front an entirely reasonable
condition;
(f)    In the absence of more significant achievements on the policy reforms
than were actually accomplished, a more appropriate course of action
might have been to have cancelled the loan;
(g)    The institutional scheme was unrealistic.  The primary impetus and
responsibility for the reform program should have come from ME, since
it was the agency most affected by the reforms sought;
(h)    Detailed  attention  should  have  been  given  to  loan withdrawal
procedures at negotiations, with full BCRA involvement, understanding
and agreement.
Lessons Learnt
1.101      The following lessons emerge from this Loan, adding to and reinforcing
conclusions derived from other AGSALs in the past decade:"l
(a)    Sector adjustment must be preceded by and must fit into a broad
adjustment program which realistic evaluation shows is working.
Close coordination of macroeconomic and sectoral lending is
essential. Further, the analytical base of the sector loan should be
detailed, comprehensive, and available (to the fullest extent
possible) in advance of loan preparation;
(b)    Adjustment lending requires the unequivocal support of Government,
leading agencies and important personalities.   The Bank needs to
191 See Odin Knudsen and John Nash, ARricultural Sector Adjustment LendinA and Aericultural
Policy, March, 1989.



- 33 -
address dialogue development in a more sophisticated manner if it
continues to design politically-sensitive operations, and should not
be afraid to halt loan processing if communication with Government is
clearly inadequate.   Systematic promotion of the loan concept and
objectives is a sine qua non;
(c)    Greater "front-loading" of conditionality is needed to achieve as
much as possible early in the loan and mitigate the tendency to give
away the second tranche when conditionality is not met;
(d)    Legislation is an exceptionally risky form of conditionality for a
fast-disbursing loan, unless it is achieved as a condition of
negotiations. Government is generally reluctant to support measures
that are difficult to reverse. The vagaries of the political process
cannot reasonably be tied to a schedule, even (and, some might say,
especially) when a large disbursement hinges on legislative action.
Furthermore, since the Bank is, by definition, precluded from
intervening directly in the political process it has set in motion,
it becomes largely an observer; 401
(e)    Sustaining  policy  reform  is  a  fundamental  and well-recognized
weakness of adjustment lending. The imperative for the Bank, if it
is to continue to make these loans, is to develop a broad strategy
during the design stage, including appropriate incentives and
mechanisms, for establishing commitment and sustainability. Legal
covenants are an ineffective substitute for this process;
(f)    Adjustment lending requires clearly-defined objectives, e.g., policy
reform, resource transfer, financial support for the sector.   In
retrospect, '.t is evident that this particular operation suffered
from a lack of clear definition between its resource transfer and
policy reform objectives.   If a primary objective  is resource
transfer, this should be openly declared and the loan designed
accordingly, to avoid the erosion of seriousness and commitment to
reform which results from the tacit understanding that final
disbursement is virtually assured; and
(g)    AGSALs are not the only loans which have sought to reduce or
eliminate export taxes. Many have encountered the inherent problem
that export taxes are a comparitively simple way of raising revenue
in countries where other forms of taxation are not effectively
implemented. Thus, the lesson for the Bank is that export tax reform
can only be part of a broad and workable reform of the overall
taxation system.
401 During recent appraisal of the Venezuelan AGSAL, legal advisers to the Government counselled
against the inclusion of legislative conditionality, citing the experience with Ln.2675-AR.



- 35 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower did not respond to the Bank's requests for an independent
assessment of the operation. The Bank's draft PCR, Parts I and III, was sent to
the Borrower for comments on March 27, 1991, but no response has been received.



- 37  -                                             Annex  I
Page 1 of 2
PART III:  SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION AND STATISTICS
BASIC DATA SWUIARY
(As of September 30, 1990)
Original         Disbursed          Cancelled         Repaid          Outstanding
Loan: 2675-AR             USS350M           USS349.96M          0.04M           29.17M            320.79M
Original Loan Dates                              Actual
initiating Memorandum                                                                      May 13, 1985
Letter of Development Policy                                                                February 14, 1986
Negotiations                                                                               December, 1985
Board Approval                                                                             April 3, 1986
Loan Agreement                                                                             June 5, 1986
Effectiveness                                   May, 1986                                  July 22, 1986
First Tranche Release                           Prior June 30. 1986                        September 24, 1986
Second Tranche Release                          January 1987                               June 2, 1988
Loan CLosing                                    June 30, 1988                              June 30, 1989
Actual Completion                               June 30, 1988                               June 30, 1989
CUIJUATIVE LOAN DISBURSEHENT
1986         1987         1988          1989
USSMillion
(a)  Planned
?oLicy Component                                     170.5        341.0
Studies/Institutional Support                          1.5          5.9          9.0
Total                                          172.0         346.9        350.0
(b) Actual
Policy Component                                                  170.50       341.00
Studies/Institutional Support                                         .33         6.80         8.96
TotaL                                             -          170.83       347.80       349.96



- 38  -                                            Annex  I
Page 2 of 2
fISSION DATA
No. of        No. of                               Date of
Month/Year          Weeks        Persons       Manweeks                Report
Exploration                   July, 1984            1             2             2              August 10, 1984
Preparatior.                  November, 1984        2             3             6              November 30, 1984
Appraisal                     June, 1985            3             6              18            July 12, 1985
Post-Appraisal                August, 1985          1             4              4             September 18, 1985
Supervision                   May, 1986             2              1             2             July 9, 1986
Supervision                   October, 1986         1             1              1             December 12, 1986
Supervision (follow-up)       November 1986         1             1              1             December 5, 1986
STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Proiect                   FY85           FY86          FY87           FY88          FY89           FY90
To Appraisal                       42.3
Appraisal                          23.7
Post Appraisal                                    17.0
Negotiations                                       3.0
Supervision and Administration                    20.0           8.5          33.7            0.7           14.3
Total                              66.0           40.0           8.5          33.7            0.7           14.3
Total Staffweeks FY84 - FY90:163.2
FOLLOW-ON SAL OPERATIONS
Trade Policy I Loan (Ln. 2815-AR): USS500M
Trade Policy 11 Loan (Ln. 2996-AR): US$300M
Banking Sector Loan (Ln. 2923-AR): USS400M



39  -                                          Annex  II
Page 1lof 3
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN CONDITIONS
Condition                                                 Cconliance Status
(mid-1988)
A. Effectiveness and Release of First Tranche
Loan Agreement. Section 6.01
(a)  (i) Export duties on agricultural commodities            Reduced to weighted average of 18.9%, marginally
have been reduced to approximately their May             below level required.
1, 1985 levels;
(ii) Tractors and agricultural machinery to                                     Complied
be moved to prior consultation category of
imports.
cb)  Borrower to define package of fiscal measures                                   Complied
to compensate for revenue loss from reduced
export taxes without increasing 1985 sector
taxation Levels;
(c)  Subsidiary agreements to be executed by GOA                                     Complied
with JNG and JNC;
(d)  Executive Committee to be established;                                          Complied
(e)  Federal Land Tax Bill to be under                                               Complied.
consideration in Congress.                               Bill referred to Committees of Budget and
Agriculture but never debated in full Congress.
B. Release of Second Tranche
Loan Agreement. Schedule 1. para 4 1/
1.   Progress satisfactory to the Bank must be
achieved in the Program:
(a)  The real exchange rate will be                      Weekly devaluations of the Austrat kept the real
continuously reviewed by GOA following              exchange rate, vis-a-vis a weighted basket of
the devaluation of June 1985, and its               currencies, on a par with the June 1985 level.
adequacy in maintaining export                      Exports and imports were made at the "official"
competitiveness ensured;                            rate, and further improvements, including
devaluation under the October, 1987 package
maintained competitiveness.
(b)  Measures to promote fertiLizer use would            The total quantity of fertilizer used increased
be adopted;                                         from 283,000 tons in 1985, to 342,000 tons in
1987, in spite of the decline in commodity prices.
An increased role was played by the private
sector, which supplied 66% in 1985 and 87% in
1987.



- 40  -                                           Annex  II
Page 2 of 3
Condition                                                Co  liance Status
(mid-1988)
(c)  Measures to promote agricultural                   Improvements made included elimination of some
marketing will be adopted;                         maximum consumer prices; liberalization of forward
purchase; extension of the export pre-finance
period from 90-180 days; reduction in costs of
bank guarantees for pre-purchases of grain;
construction of new grain storage facilities,
public and private, under IBRD Loan;
(d)  Government to make adequate resources              Average outstanding loan balances of all financial
available, for short and long-term                 institutions to the agricultural sector increased
agricultural credit;                               by 26X between 1985 and 1986, and rose by a
further 5% in the first half of 1987. The then
recently-negotiated Agricultural Credit Project II
represented a significant potential increase in
credit resources.
Loan lareement. Schedule 4. pars l(a) and 1(b)
2.   Rates of export duties to be reduced to not              Export duty reductions went beyond those required
more than 70% of levels in force in May 1985,           to comply with the condition.  Weighted average
or other such level agreed between Bank and             export duty for the 1987/88 year was 1.7%.
Borrower in light of substitute fiscal
measures;
3.   Compensatory fiscal measures were to be                  Such measures (confidential at that time) were
implemented to replace revenues lost from               defined to achieve loan effectiveness in June
export tax reductions, to be inplemented,               1986.  Included tax amnesty (introduced Feb.
without raising sector taxation above May               1986); increased fuel and tobacco taxes (adjusted
1985 levels;                                            3 times in 1987); tax on financial transactions
(not inplemented). The fiscal package passed by
Congress in January 1988 increased the tax on
cheques. Overall effect was to increase revenues
by 10.5X of GDP, exceeding losses from export tax
reductions.
4.   Progress satisfactory to the Bank must be
achieved in the Land Tax Schedule:
(a)  preparation of the technical basis of                                    Complied
the Federal Land Tax (FLT);
(b)  Passage by Congress of the Federal Land            Bill sent to Congress in April 1986.
Tax Law and its subsequent regulation.             Studied in Agriculture and Budget committees, but
never formally debated in Congress. Condition not
complied with and its waiver approved by Bank
Board of Directors.
5.   Tractors and agricultural machinery must be              Transferred from the "prohibited import" list to
moved to the "automatic entry" list.                    the "prior approval" category as a condition of
loar, effectiveness.  Transferred on to "automatic
entry" list in May, 1988.
6.   Import tariffs on agricultural chemicals to              Originally seen as temporary, but later extended,
be reduced to not more than their May 1985              and in late 1987 increased to 15X under IMF
levels, i.e., remove 10% import surcharge.              agreement on fiscal deficit reduction.
Condition not complied with and waiver approved by
Bank Board of Directors.



- 41  -                                          Annex  II
Page 3of 3
ConditionCmtiance Stat
(mid-1988)
7.   The Program (see 1 above) and alt studies
referred to in Section 3.04 of the Loan
Agreement must have been completed or under
implementation to the Bank's satisfaction.
The studies were:
(a) appropriate level of taxation for
agricultural activities and alternative
measures to the land tax;                                               Complied
tb)  technical basis of the Federal Land Tax
(see 4(a) above);
Complied
(c) marketing and production strategy for
agricultural products;
Coptied
5d) technical economic and financial
analysis of supplementary tubewell
irrigation of maize;                                                    Complied
Ce) structural change in the livestock
industry;
Coamplied
(f) development and promotion of
agricultural and agro-industrial exports
from non-Pampa areas;                                                   Complied
(*) organizational evaluation of JNG,
definition of improvements required, and
draft legal instruments;                                                Complied
(h) institutional support to Junta Nacional
de Granos (JNG);
Cooplied
(*) institutional support to Junta Nacional
de Carnes (JNC).
Complied.
/ Certain conditions are duplicated in the Loan Agreement, in ScheduLe 1, para 4, and in Schedule 4.
Where this occurs, the condition is considered in this matrix under ScheduLe 4.



- 42 -                            Annex III
Page I of 4
Export Taxes and the Exchanre Rate
Intervention in the Agricultural Sector
The policy bias against agriculture, which the AGSAL attempted to
address, has its origins in interventions which begar in the 1930s and which by
the 1980s had become extremely deep-seated. As a result of these interventions,
agricultural development in Argentina during the 20th century has seen a period
of major growth transformed into virtual stagnation, and the sector has been
prevented from realising its potential in terms of output, employment and
exports.   The effects of the bias have been apparent since the 1950s, most
obviously in the stagnation (and, in some crops, even decline) of output and the
consequent loss of exports and foreign exchange earnings; however, various
efforts at reform, beginning in the late 1950s, have been short-lived and
unsuccessful.   The immediate and short-term benefits of intervention to the
government and to the other sectors of the economy have proved impossible to
relinquish, even though the long-term potential benefits which would accrue from
the removal of direct and indirect discrimination were recognised.   This
"inmediatismo"l is a recurring theme in both macro- and microeconomic policy
management in ArgenF-ir.a, and is by no means confined to the agricultural sector.
A major shift in philosophy occurred during the course of this
prolonged period of intervention.  The immediate post-war intervention aimed
explicitly at transferring resources to the other, more "dynamic", sectors of the
economy where the response *o capital investment was supposed to be higher than
in the agricultural sector, in line with then-prevailing theories of economic
development. The agricultural sector became accustomed to lower relative prices
and to the dislocation between international and domestic prices. In more recent
years, however, these transfers from the sector have become rationalised by
government as taxation, justified on the basis that, since the agricultural
sector,in common with other sectors, evades its other tax responsibilities (e.g.,
on orofit and capital taxes), the panoply of export and pseudo-export taxes
(e.g., the retenci6n, INTA levy and statistics taxes), reinforced on occasions
by explicit exchange rate taxes, must therefore function as a surrogate. This
justification has never been accepted by the agricultural sector, and the concept
of a quid pro quo between export taxes and any new tax (e.g., a federal land tax)
was and still is seriously questioned by the various farmers' groups.
The relative prices of Argentina's export products fell during the
Second World War because of exogenous factors.   After 1945, this shift was
maintained as a result of policy intervention, preventing the improvement in
international prices from feeding through to the agricultural sector.
Discrimination aga4nst agr.culture was at its strongest during the period 1945-
1955; although it was somewhat reduced from the mid-1950s on, by the 1960s the
"typical scheme" had become institutionalised: following a devaluation or major
increase in the international prices of agricultural commodities, export taxes
were increased; when the real rate of exchange or world prices fell, export
taxes were reduced.   The dirincentive effect on agricultural producers was



43 -                            Annex III
Page 2 of 4
clearly recognised, and several efforts wer, mode to reform the pattern of policy
responses, especially between 1976-1980, bu, these reform efforts were short-
lived and, ultimately, failures. At various t-es, compensating policy measures
were introduced in an attempt to increase farm incomes and profitability,
particularly through new agricultural technology, lower input prices and
subsidised credit. The use of these measures and complementary fiscal measures
were far from offering full compensation for the direct and indirect
discrimination practised against the agricultural sector, and were used
specifically  because  they  could  improve  farm  incomes without  increasing
agricultural prices. However, these measures did have a significant role in the
capitalisation of the agricultural sector.
The objectives of intervention can be grouped under five headings for
purposes of description, although in practice these objectives are over-lapping:
(a) consumer welfare objectives, maintaining low-cost food for low-income
workers, mainly urbanised and in industrial employment; (b) regional eauity
objectives, explicitly putting most of the burden, via export taxes, on the
resource-rich Pampas region; (c) government revenue objectives; (d) price
stability objectives, via the impact of intervention on the prices of major wage-
goods; and (e) industrial development objectives, via the transfer of
agricultural "surplus" to industry, low wage-good prices, and low raw material
prices  for agricultural processing  industry.   The extent  to which these
objectives have been achieved and the degree of cohesion between these
intervention policies and other macro- and microeconomic policies are highly
debateable. It is important to note, however, that discrimination against the
agricultural sector has been, and continues to be, undertaken via multiple
instruments and with multiple objectives.
Obiectives of the AGSAL
The major objective of the AGSAL was to introduce a federal land tax
(FLT) and reduce the rates of export taxes (retenciones) applied to the nine most
important agricultural export commodities. The FLT was expected to be, at worst,
production-neutral and at best to have a dynamic, production-positive impact. The
basic concept was to replace the revenue foregone (from lowering export tax
rates) with revenues received from a phased introduction of the FLT. This would
have represented a major shift in the tax burden, particularly of those farmers
producing for export, a fixed charge per hectare being introduced in return for
a quantum improvement in product prices. The starting point for the measurement
of the extent of the improvement was May 1985, immediately prior to the Plan
Austral. Reductions in the weighted-average level of export taxes, combined with
the maintenance of an exchange rate "competitive for exports" in the period post-
Plan Austral, were to achieve and maintain an increase in the real value of the
farm-gate price.
Results
In the period since the Board's approval of the AGSAL in April 1986,
export tax rates at first declined virtually to zero in the face of a collapse
in international prices, and then increased again. Over the same period, major



- 44 -                            Annex III
Page 3 of 4
fluctuations have occurred in the real exchange rate. Tables 1 and 2 show the
combined impact of export taxes and the exchange rate applicable to export
transactions on the prices of wheat and maize in terms of an effective exchange
rate (EER) for the period 1985-1990. The level of export taxation applied to the
other export products (grains, oilseeds and their processed products) differed
from wheat and maize but followed the same trend over time. It can be seen that,
since May 1985, the level of export taxation (i.e.. retenci6n + INTA levy +
Statistics Tax) has varied between 1.52 and 34.5Z in the case of both wheat and
maize. The EER Index (EERI) for both crops includes the effect of changes in the
Non-Agricultural Wholesale Price Index, in order to incorporate an indication of
periodic under- and over-valuation of the currency.
The graphs show clearly the continuation over the period of the
"typical scheme" referred to above: the low international prices which prevailed
from early 1986 until early 1988 were accompanied by relatively high values of
the EERIs for the two crops. The improved prices which prevailed from early 1988
were accompanied by significantly lower values of the EERIs.  In the case of
maize, between April 1986 and June 1988. during which period the price fell to
an all-time low in real terms, the level of export tax fell from 22.5% to 1.5%
and the EERI was an average of 111.8. Between July 1988 and the end of 1990, as
prices recovered, the export tax level rose from 1.5% to 34.5% (before falling
back to 24.5%) and the value of the EERI was an average of 91.3. By the end of
1990. the combination of high export taxation and overvalued currency had reduced
the EERI for maize to 59.5 which represented its low point for the whole period.
By concentrating on the narrow fiscal aspect of substituting a FLT for
export tax revenue foregone, the AGSAL ignored the multi-faceted nature of
intervention in the agricultural sector. The improvements initially achieved in
reducing export tax rates, which went far beyond the levels agreed with the Bank
in large part because of the unprecedented fall in international prices of
agricultural commodities, were later reversed, as international prices recovered,
under the demands of short-term fiscal expediency.  At the same time, major
fluctuations in the real exchange rate occurred over the period of the loan. The
combination of these factors caused major changes in the EERI, which with a base
of May 1985=100 has varied between 61.4 and 170.3. One important effect has been
to increase the variability of the farm gate price; in the case of maize, the
coefficient of variation of the FOB price of maize rose from 25.5 to 30n.2 when
adjusted by the EERI.



- 45 -                            Annex III
Page 4 of 4
REFERENCES:
Trade.  Exchange  Rate  and  ARricultural  Pricing  Policies  in  Argentina,
Sturzenegger, Adolfo et al, 1990.
Poder de Compra de los Tipos de Cambio. Retenciones v T6rminos de Intercambio,
Carta Econ6mica, Estudios Especiales. October 1988
El Impacto de las Politicas Macroecon6micas sobre el Sector Agropecuario con
E1emplos de la Experiencia Argentina, Fundaci6n MediterrAnea, Estudios.
October/December 1986
FIEL Data



- 46 -                                                                  ANNEX III
Table I
Effective Exchange Rate for Maize
"ex age ate   Index Price         FOB Price   Export Teas    A d1usted Exchague h        oa-Agric WPI       ER          l Index      ER-Adjusted
(A..USSI)        1US$( ton)       USS/ton           (2)            ate. (4WUSS1)                        index    (Hay 1985-100)    FOB Price
1985        :1        0.20          138               106             32.5               0.12                   29.480      0.40         78.3              85
IS85 cb  0.24          135              105             26.0               0.15                   35.102      0.44         85.6              90
mar        0.31          111              106             22.9                0.23                   45.356     0.51         100.7             107
apr       0.40           110              110             22.5               0.31                   60.103      0.51        100.4              110
0.53          109              109             22.5                0.41                  79.817      0.51        100.0              109
fluu   0.74   112              111             27.8                0.53                  114,A68     0.46         91.4              101
F.,       0.80           113              112             30.5               0.55                  111.926      0.50         97.4              109
aug       0.80           112              112             30.5               0.56                  112.066      0.50         97.6              109
Sep       0.80           106              110             30.5               0.57                  112.038      0.50         99.1              109
Oct       0.80           It0              110             30.5               0.36                   112.558     0.49         97.1              L07
nTo        0.80         I11               113             30.5               0.56                   112,867     0.49         96.9              109
doe        0.80          110              116             30.5                0.57                  113.382     0.50         98.4              114
1986       1a         0.60          106               122             30.5               0.59                  113 462      0.52        101.8             124
!eb       0.80            91               88             29.1               0.56                   114 139     0.49         96.1               85
Ver        0.80           86               84             22.5                0.62                  115.770     0.53         104.7              88
apr       0.83            86               84             22.5               0.64                  119.154      0.53        105.0              a8
may       0.85           92                89             22.5               0.65                  121.736      0.54        105.3              94
jun      0.87            89               89             22.5               0.68                  126.751      0.53        104.9              93
3ul-1      0.90           82               82             22.5                0.70                 133.522      0.52        103.1               85
aug       0.96            80               80             22.5               0.74                  143.667      0.52        101.9               81
Sep        1.05           89               90             22.5               0.81                   151.781     0.54        105.3              95
oct        1.09           90               69             22.5               0.77                  1568706      0.49         95.4               66
no,        1.15           90               71             22.5                0.82                  167.604     0.49         96.0               68
doe        1.21           78               67             16.5                0.98                  176.386     0.55        108.6               73
1967       jan        1.39           67                65             16.5               1.07                  186.159      0.58        113.1              73
feb        1.38           67               66             16.5                1.15                 1981752      0.58        113.7               75
mar        1.54           70               69             16.5                1.28                 213.398      0.60        117.7               81
apr        1.54           74               74             16.5                1.28                 217.321      0.59        116.0              86
=3p        1.59           82               80             16.5                1.32                 226.377      0.58         114.4              92
1.70           82               82             16.5                1.42                 242.151      0.59        115.1              94
F.,        1.89           88               84             16.5                1.56                 265,100      0.59        115.7               97
aus       2.10            86               86             16.5                1.76                 302.115      0.58        114.2               98
ON        2.45            84               85             16.5               2.05                  354.081      0.58        113.7              97
oet       3.21            86               92             16.5               2.70                  473,266      0.57        112.1              103
nov       3.49            89               84             16.5                2.88                 495.094      0.58        114.3               96
doec      3.49            88               85             16.5               2.89                  505,042      0.57        112.5              96
1988       jau        3.85           86                86             16.5               3.21                  564.307      0.57        11L.8              96
fab        4.30           87               87              1.5                4.24                 642,437      0.66         129.6             113
mer        4.A9           85               85              1.5               4.62                  751.291      0.64        126.1              107
apr       5.8i            82               81              1.5               5.60                  883.501      0.63        124.6             101
my        AS.35           78               77              1.5               6.26                1.096.801      0.57        112.1               86
Run      4.02           114               89              1.5               7.87                1.342.531      0.59        115.2             102
I         Y.tS           129              130              1.5               9.04                1.665.942      0.54        106.6             139
aug      1200            12.5             125              1.5              11.82                2,206.684      0.54        105.3             132
sap      ...22 10                         118              1.5              11.74                2,305,691      0.51        100.0             118
Oct        -.14          l 8              115              1.5               11.96               2.402,406      0.50         97.8              112
nov      11.5i          1 -              116              1.5               12.40               2.521.977      0.49         96.6              112
doe       13.06          115              117              1.5               12.86               2.667.959      0.48         94.7              111
1989        a        13.58          110               l18              1.5              13.37                2 842.360      0.47         92.4             109
feb      15.14           il8             !18               1.5              14.91                3.060.163      0.49         95.8             113
Mar      20.23           125              121              1.5               19.91               3,604.950      0.55        108.5              131
apr      51.00           125              1i7              1.5              50.18                5.789.112      0.87        170.3              199
124.15          125              1!5             22.d              93.38               11.848.102      0.79         154.9             178
208.33          125              115             36.3              124.68              27.405.198       0.45         89.4             101
3w1i    563.14           116              11t             34.5             360.11               87,658,542      0.41         80.7               90
aug     650.00           105              104             34.5             423.59               94.005.779      0.45         88.5              92
aep     650.00           101              Low             34.5             423.51               95,263.241      0.44         87.4              87
oct     650.00           104              104             34.5             425.75               96,218,601      0.44         86.9               90
uov     650.00           112              108             34.5             417.44               97,994.561      0.45         83.7               90
dec    1128.93           108              104             29.6             781.91              145,322,490      0.54        105.4              110
1990        e      1666.25          105               103             16.5            1385.98              236.260.937      0.58        114.3             118
feb    3682.75           104              104             16.5            3075.10              454.822.107      0.68        132.9              138
mar    4756.19           105              105             19.9            3809.71              782.898,052      0.49         95.6              100
apr    4951.57           il1              110             21.5            3677.30              842,581,721      0.46         90.4              99
my 4990.95           114              114             21.5            3917.90              900.744.064       0.43         85.5              97
i un    5313.75          119              119             21.5            4171.29              968,430,646      0.43         84.6             101
3       5319.76          126              126             21.5            4176.01              996.758,694      0.42         82.3              104
aug    5976.14           125              127             21.5            4711.50            1.160.551.630      0.41         79.8              101
sep    5795.50           108              127             21.5            4735.68            1,263,704.935      0.37         73.6              94
oct    5578.40           101              126             21.5            4632.03            1,296.496.134      0.36         70.2               90
nov    5274.52           110              126             21.5            4299.97            1.340.746.891      0.32         63.0               81
dec    5109.26           107              128             21.5            4190.99            1.340.746.692      0.31         61.4               79
mdion                                                98.60                                                                                               97.90
etandard deviation                                   24.16                                                                                               20.58
coefficient of variation                             24.49                                                                                               30.21
Uotees
1. The echaupg rate ia the rate applicable to exports.
2. The indez price ia the .716 export regiatration price.
3. Export tTxe i  nclude the ratenci6n, the XNTA levy. .6d the Statistics Tax (since Juun, 1989 ).
4  The ad1usted exchange rate inorporetee the effect of the  xprt tax and the ldes Price/FOB Price distortion (if any) on the export tax rate.
S. The      index is the  tdjuetd e tange rate deflated by the Argentin  non-agricultural wholesale price index.
6. The F03 price (iu US dolcrs per ton) adjusted by th  EE index (tKy 1985-100). The differene betvwen the adjusted and actual FOB price
reflcte the combined IWpact of export taxes and misalignment of the exchSane rate, relative to May 1985.



- 47 -                                                                  ANNEX III
Table 2
Effective Exchange Rate for Wheat
Exzeb!,,; Rote      Ind.. PrIce    108 Price   Export Tazes  Adjusted lxc          N~Ion..Agric VPZ       m        E  Index    EER-&djuitad
(A U  I)           (US$/(too)     (U0$/ton)          (2)        8t. (A-US$,                          index   (May 1985-100)  808 Price
(US$/ton)
1985                   0.20               118.0           109          19.5             0.16                 29.460       0.54        102.78        112.03
feb        0.24               118.0           111          19.5             0.19                 35.102       0.55        104.42        115.91
mar        0.31               118.0           113          19.5             0.24.                45.356       0.5*        102.66        116.01
apr        0.40               116.0           13           19.5             0.32                 60.10                    100.26        113.29
5a035                  116.            113          196..           '0.42                 79,867       0.32        100.00        113.00
1un       0.74               114.3           107          25.2             0.54                114,068       0.47         90.10         96.41
0.60              110.0           107          26.0             0.57                111,926       0.51         97.26        104.07
0.80              109.4            96          28.0             0.55                112,066       0.49         93.77         91.89
sep        0.80               104.8            94          26.0             0.53                112,038       0.49         93.84         88.21
oct        0.80               100.0            92          18.7             0.64                112.558       0.57        108.20         99.54
nov        0.80                96.4            99          16.5             0.67                112.867       0.59        113.67        112.54
doc        0.80               109.9           112          16.5             0.67                113.382       0.59        112.99        126.35
1986       ja          0.80               113.0           107          16.5             0.66                113,462       0.56        111.25        119.03
feb        0.60               111.7           100          16.5             0.65                114,139       0.57        109.24        109.24
mr         0.80               109.0            97          16.5             0.65                115,770       0.56        107.56        104.33
apr        0.83               109.0           100          16.5             0.68                119.154       0.57        108.77        108.77
0.85              101.2            s8          16.5             0.69                121.736       0.57        107.97         95.01
0.87              100.0            84          16.5             0.70                126,751       0.55        105.75         88.83
F-Yi       0.90               100.0            80          16.5             0.72                133.522       0.54        102.57         82.06
"US        0.96               100.0            80          16.5             0.76                143.667       0.53        101.56         81.24
gap        1.05                88.7            80          11.8             0.91                151,781       0.60        114.56         91.63
oct         1.09               83.0            81           6.5             1.02                1586706       0.64        122.49         99.22
nov         1.15               83.0            80           6.5              1.07               167,604       0.64        121.84         97.47
dec         1.21               80.2            79           6.5              1.13               176,386       0.64        122.22         96.56
1987        lan        1.29                82.3            64           6.5             1.21                186159        0.65        123.88        104.06
ob         1.38                90.9            90           6.5             1.29                198 752       0.65        123.87        111.48
mar         1.54               93.3            93           6.5              1.43               213,398       0.67        128.48        119.49
*pr         1.54               92.3            92           6.5             1.43                217.321       0.66        126.16        116.07
may         1.59               93.9            95           6.5              1.48               226,377       0.66        125.19        118.93
1un        1.70                95.8            96           6.5             1.59                242.131       0.66        125.37        120.35
jul         1.69               96.0            83           6.5              1.75               265.100       0.66        125.70        104.40
aU4        2.10                96.0            83           6.5              1.94               302,115  -   0.64         123.01        102.09
sop        2.43                95.8            89           6.5             2.27                354.081       0.64        122.76        109.26
Oct        3.21                94.0            94           6.5             3.00                473.266       0.63        121.06        113.80
nov        3.49                95.5            95           6.5             3.26                495.094       0.66        125.89        119.60
dec        3.49                96.2            96           1.5             3.44                505.042       0.68        130.05        124.85
1988       jan           a.8               94.5            95           1.5             3.79                564.307       0.67        128.28        121.87
lob        4.30                97.0            97           1.5             4.24                642.437       0.66        126.06        122.28
mar        4.89                97.0           106           1.5             4.83                751,291       0.64        122.76        130.12
apr        5.69               102.3           107           1.5             5.61                883.501       0.63        121.27        129.76
may        6.35               107.1           110           1.5             6.26              1.096,801       0.57        109.06        119.97
iun        8.02               132.0           133           1.5             7.90              1,342.531       0.59        112.47        149.59
ul.        9.18               135.0           154           1.5             9.06              1.665.942       0.54        103.86        159.94
"S        12.00               138.0           138           1.5            11.82              2.206,684       0.54        102.35        141.24
cop       11.92               135.0          10            1.5            11.76              2.305.691       0.51         97.45        146.17
oct       12.14               146.0           148           1.5            11.96              2,402.406       0.50         95.15        140.83
00v        12.59              152.0           149           1.5            12.40              2,521.977       0.49         93.93        139.95
d.c       13.06               158.0           154           1.5            12.86              2.667,959       0.48         92.07        141.79
1989       Ian        13.58               159.0           161           1.5            13.37             2.842 380        0.47         89.90        144.75
fob       15.14               157.0           160           1.5            14.92              3.060.163       0.49         93.14        149.03
mar       20.23               157.0           156           1.5            19.92              3,604,950       0.55        105.59        164.72
apr       51.00               155.0           156           1.5            50.24              5,789.112       0.87        165.81        258.66
may    124.15               158.0           160          22.8            96.20             11,848,102       0.81        155.13        248.21
208.33              177.0            158         35.3            130.62            27.405.298       0.48         91.07        143.89
FYJul   3563.14               155.0           156          34.5           370.10             87,658,542       0.42         80.67        125.85
auS      650.00               153.0           153          34.5           425.75             94.005.779       0.45         86.54        132.40
sop      650.00               130.0           148          33.5           429.31             95,263,241       0.45         86.11        127.44
oct      650.00               151.0           148          32.5           434.47             96.218,601       0.45         86.28        127.69
nov      650.00               150.0           150          30.5           451.75             97.994.561       0.46         68.08        132.13
d.c     1128.93               148.0           148          30.0           790.25            145,822,490       0.54        103.55        153.23
1990       lc.      1686.25               146.0           146          26.5          1224.69           238 260 931        0.51         98.21        143.39
fob     3682.75               151.0           151          24.5          2760.48           454.822.107        0.61        116.8L        176.38
mar     4756.19               150.0           150          26.1          3514.82            782,898,052       0.45         85.78        128.67
apr     4951.57               144.0           145          25.9          3677.96           842.581.721        0.44         83.41        120.94
m,  4990.93               148.0           148          23.3          3818.08           "0.744.064         0.42         80.99        119.87
5313.75               148.0           148         21.6           4165.98           968.430,646       0.43         82.20        121.65
FuY-l    5319.76              141.0           141          19.5          4282.41           996,758.694        0.43         82.09        115.75
aun     5976.14               140.0           140          19.5          4810.79         1,160.551,630        0.41         79.21        110.89
cop     5795.50                89.0            86          19.5          4625.95          1,263.704.935       0.37         69.95         60.15
oct     5578.40                83.0            83          19.5          4490.61         1,296,496,134        0.35         66.18         54.93
nov     5274.52                79.0            80           4.5          5040.13          1.340.746.891       0.38         71.83         57.46
doc     5109.26                75.0            75           4.5          4879.34          1.340.746,892       0.36         69.54         52.15
madian                                                       112.58                                                                                    120.46
Standcrd deviation                                             31.29                                                                                     34.42
coefficient of variation                                        27.79                                                                                    28.57
Notes$
1. The  xichabgo rate is ths rate applicable to exportc.
2. The indez price is the JNO export regietration price.
3. Export tc  include the retenci, the  IlTA lvy. and the Statietics Tax (snc June. 1989).
4. The edlucted exchangS  rate  ncorporatc  the  ffct of the export tax and tbh  ltdex Price/OB Price distortion (it any) on the export tax.
S. TheM  index  s the adjusted exchange rate deflated by the Argeatina non-agricultural Wholesale price iudex.
6. The FOB price (in US dollars per ton) adjusted by tbe EEI Lndez (May 1985-100). The difforence botvems the adjusted and actual FOB price
reflecte the combined ispact of export taxse and misalignamnt of tbh  *cbang  rate, relative to May 1965.



ARGENTI NA
Effective Exchange Rate for Maize
180-
170 -
160 
150 
140-
N     12  - 
12
go
110
700
60
50 -.   ,111                   ,,,,,g 11,,,, ,, ,-, 1111  .II5  .iu,  *u.|  uIIu X  |--r-   "''  '""
1985         1986          1987          1988         1989          1990
0    FOB Price                +    EER Index 5/85=100



ARGENTI NA
Effective Exchange Rate for Maize
200-
190
170
160
1 SG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
7N
.6 140
C  130
120
(-
100
900
70-
70
1985         1986          1987         1988          1989         1990
0    FOR Price                1   EER Adjust FOB



ARGENTINA
Effective Exchange Rate for Wheat
170-
1 60 
150
140
130
120
80
70 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
c                                                                                                         06
1985           1986           19ga7          1 988          1989           1 990
0    F0B Price                   +    EER 5/85-100



ARGEN 'fiNA
Effective Exchange Rate for Wheat
260 -t  
250 -
240-
230-
220-
210 -
200 -
190-
1 804                                                     r 6;i
170-
160                                                                                      L
c     150 
140-
Cl)   130 
3  120-
110
100
90
80
70
60
1985         1986          1987         1988         1989          1990
0    FOB Price                +   EER Adjust FOB                                [I b



- 52 -                                Annex IV
Page 1 of 7
Statement on Agricultural Policv
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Re: Policy Statement on Macroeconomic and Agricultural Policv
The Government of Argentina wishes to request a World Bank loan
to suppo:: an agrlcul:ural policy reform program.
Argentina has a favorable production environment which enables
self-sufficiency in cost agricultural needs, and allows i: to produce a
range of internationally traded agricultural commodities for which it has a
comparative   production   advantage   compared  to  most  of  i:s  marke.
competi:ors. While agriculture has been growing a: an annual rate of abou:
3% in recen: years, :he sector is advancing below its production pozer.:al.
The dependence on the vagaries of the international market and
increased subsidies bv developed countries introduces an element of price
risk whlch must be taken into account by producers in making investment and
production decisions; production levels, therefore, could be expected to be
less than that which would be obtained Ln a more guaran;eed and favorable
produc:  price  environment.    However,  in  addetton  to  the  inevitable
interna:tonal market uncur:ainties, the producer has been confronted with
Goverumer.: policies which  have  had  a depressing  effect  on prices and
profi:s.  High overall level of export taxes have reduced producer prices,
and the prce uncertainty associated with changing expor: tax ra;es and
inappropriate exchange rate policies has acted as a dslncen:ve to
agricul:ural tnves:ment.  Agricultural impor: tariffs and regulations have
also had nega:tve implica:ions for adoption of agric:lural technology.  In
circums:ances of relatively low and uncertair. product prices and prof:t
margins,   farmers   have   tended   to   opt   for   lower-risk:lower-output
technologies that have translated into a significant opportuni:y cost to
the cour.:ry in terms of foregone production and expor: earnings.
The Government has initiated a medium-cerm program Lo tackle the
underlying distortions in the economy so as to improve the incentives
necessary for a more intensive use of agricultural resources to increase
production  and   exports,  develop   regional  economies,  and  generate
exployment.   To this and, exchange  rate policy plays a major role in
maintaining  the  competitiveness  of  exports  and  as  a  mechanism  for
allocating scarce foreign exchange; the system of export incentives is
being strengthened and mos: agricultural export taxes are to be rolled back
over a four-year period and replaced by a federal land cax based on
unimproved market values; import tariffs on agricultural inputs not
produced locally are being implemented; quantitative and other restrictions
to agricultural inputs are being phased out; the development of a local



-53 -                                 Annex IV
Page 2 of 7
f    l zc  4,qndustry 's benrg promoted to reduce costs -o :his   po::an:
produc:torn  npu:; and the lines of credi: for private irvestment -, the
sector are :a be broadened.
Before going in:o the spec'f'c actior programs through whic6 the
policy  changes  will  be  ins:tuted,  let  me  refe:  to  several  o:hei
interrelated ma:ters deaalng with efforts to arrest ''fla:ion and promote
growth and some of their side effects; and to the ongoing adjustmen:
efforts of the Government  that,  to a  considerable  exer.:, provide the
macroeconomic framework for the agriculture sec:or polic reforms tha: the
Government has been adopting.
A.  Adius=:ent Patter=s of the Arzentine Economv
Argentina has undergone a long period of very high ra:es of
inflation. Over the las: 10 years, price increases have averaged a monthly
rate o! 11:.  As car. be expected during this period of hIgh infla:ton, a
number of differen: stabilization prograws were implemented. Hoveve:, :ney
dic  no: achieve :ne expected results.  The coc:Inuous cnanges in ec^cocl:
policies have i' :nemselves been a source of significant ins:abili:y.
Jthen the democra:ic Governmcn: took office in Decembe: of.  983,
infla:i4c   had  alreadv  risen  above  17Z  a  month.    Moreover,  s::ong
ir.fla:iocary  forces   were  already   a:  work.         Firs:,  the  previous
adn'^Is:ra:ion had ended its period wrth a huge f'sca. :ef,t':'  amount:ig to
16Z  of the  GDP.   Second,  mos:  social  groups  had  been  demanding  an
Improvement   r.  living  standards   after  a  long  period  of  economic
stagnation.  ThIrd, the heavy  burden of the country's external debt had
increased the Government's financing  requiremernts and l'- :t the growth
potential of the economy, adding to inflatIonary pressures.
The Government ir.!:ially adopted a rradu&lis: approach, aimet a:
red_u:'nr    r.'!az:oo   s:e ads.l Iv thou:   major  :4s:t1.s   :.  e:ncmi:
a::ivt:v.   Thus, in  1984, real output recovere:  slig.-:lv.    anla tonr.,
howeve:, c=t:Inued *'th a rIsing trend.  ':  tnus becaze eviaer.:  nat: :he
economv would no: be  able  to  functLon w'th  sucn  levels  o'  Inf.ration.
Individuals and f''rms were unable to plan beyond :ne ve-y snco:-:erm.  As a
consecuence, Investment and produc:ion were slgniflcat.:   affeccc.   The
Governmes: recog'Ized that price stabilizatior. had to tate place quIckly; a
slov reduction of inflation would be very dIfficult to manage anc would
subject :he economy to a long period of unszable -:ices and reduced
economl: a::'vi:y.   Thus,  price  s:ab"':ty became a si'e oua noo  for a
sustainable recovery.
B. Ontoir.s Adiustment Effortr
The Government's new program has three main aspects.   FIrs:, a
drastic reduction ir. the fiscal deficit in order to cornrol tae mone;
supply.   Second, the  introduction of a temporary wap  and price freezc
intended to eLiminate  Lnflazionary expectaoions.   Th-rd, adopt-Ion of ^
monetary reform  In order to eliminate price Ladexa:ior..



Page 3 of 7
To undertake the adjustment successfully, the money supply had to
be under control.   Thus,  the overall  fiscal deficit had to be reduced
significantly.   Through  the adoption of a number of measures to reduce
public sector expenditures and increase tax revenues, the deficit was
brought down from 12% of GDP in 1984 to 4% in 1985. Since the announcement
of the economic program in June of 1985, the Government has been able to
reduce the deficit further during the second half of the year to below 2%
of GDP. This has been possible in spite of large interest payments on the
external debt.
The wage and price freeze, intended to eliminate the inflationary
-momentum", is not intended to enforce an artificial price structure.
First, it is regarded as a complement, and not a substitute, of adequate
aggregate demand policies.   Second, 'key" prices were adjusted before che
program started so as to avoid future upward pressures.  The real exchange
rate was depreciated in order to obtain a substantial surplus in the trade
balance and public sector prices were increased in real terms.
The drastic and sudden reduction in the rate of inflation could
have created a serious situation because very high nominal interest rates
could suddenly have been transformed into extremely large real rates as
prices stopped rising.  This would have caused large income transfers from
debtors  to creditors.   In order to offset this possibility,  the program
introduced a new currency (the austral) and a 'conversion scale" that fixed
a daily exchange rate between the new austral and the old peso, to be used
for  cancellation  of  peso-denominated  debts  or  Lndexed  debt  reflecting
pre-reform inflation indices.
The first results of the new prdgram have been encouraging.  A
sizeable step has been taken in the direction of bringing inflation under
control.  The Consumer Price Index fell from a monthly level of 30.5% last
June  to 6.2%  in July;  3.1%  in August,  2%  in September,  and  1.9% in
October.   The Wholesale Price Index, on the other hand, declined from 422
in June to -0.9% in July, 1.5% in August, 0.6% in September, and 0.8% in
October.   There  have  also  been significant  changes  in the behavior of
financial markets, among them a substantial increase in demand for money.
The Ml to GDP ratio, which had practically vanished prior to the economic
reform, increased dramatically in the first two months foilowing the
reform.  At the same time, index-linked deposits have disappeared, a good
reflection  of  the growing confide'nce  in price  stability.   Also,  large
external inflows of short-term capital have taken place following the
introduction of the new measures that intended to take advantage of the
large differential between domestic and international interest rates.  The
Governmenc has acted to discourage these short-term capital inflows which
have proven to be disruptive in the past.
The drastic slowdown in inflation is causing important changes in
"microeconomic"  behavior.   Consumers are now able to 'memorize' prices,
something that was nearly impossible when prices changed almost daily.
Price competition works more effectively as firms cut their prices below
the levels officialy quoted. Firms have alsa a stronger incentive to watch
their  costs  closely.    These  changes  indicate  some  of  the  positive
consequences that result from a sustained stabilization.



-55 -                                 Annex IV
Page 4 of 7
Economic activity had been declining since late 1984 and after
June 1985, fell even further.   This was caused by a drop in demand as
consumers delayed their spending and by the elimination of excessive
inventories by firms. The private sector has reduced its working hours and
layoffs  have  been  reported.    The  economy  is  thus  undergoing  a deep
recession.  However, some sectors have begun to show aa increase in sales
over  the  last  two  months,  which  has  permitted  the  absorption  of
inventories.   If sustained,  these developments may lead to increases in
output in the near fucure.   While it is coo early to indicate that a
recovery is under way, the recession does not seem to be worsening.
The sudden transition from an economy verging on hyperinflation
to near price stability has not been accomplished without problems.  The
economic recpssion is far from over and the country needs to recover its
output and employment generation potentlal. Inflationary expectacions have
not been eliminated completely. This is reflected in iaterest rates which,
given the small present inflation, are very high in real terms.   Public
enterprises are showing a slower than expected adjustment to the new
situation of  fiscal  disciplIne.    Some  provincial governments are also
showing  reluctance  to  accommodate  their  expenditure  levels  to  their
available incone.   Other sectors are concerned about the possibillty of
renewal of inflation once the freeze is ended.
The Government Is aware of these concerns but expects that its
economic management efforts will allay them.   Fiscal restra'nt will be
maintained.  The freeze will be phased out graduaily, following agreements
wi:h the different sectors concerned, so that it may end without a surge In
prices.  As the councry benefits from the experir.ce of several months of
very low inflation, inflationary expectations are likely to be broken
further.   This may help to lower interest rates and iaduce the private
sector to expand output.   The Government's economic growth strategy is
based on increasing exports and promoting private sector investment.   In
order to be able to renew real economic growth, the country needs to
increase  domestic  savings  and  improve  the  allocazion  of  investment
resources.  Over the longer term, price stability can only be sustained by
a growing economy.
C. Agricultural Policy Reforms
The agricultural policy reforms relate to five major categories:
(1) exchange rate polLcy; (2) export incentives; (3) revenue measures; (4)
trade regime; ard (5) administrative procedures.
In connection with exchange race policy, the Government will
con:Inue with the course followed during June of 1985. A sIgnificant real
depreciatIon of the Argentine currency took place.   The Government will
continuously  review  the  level  of  the  real  exchange  rate  taking  into
account, inter alia, the differential between international and domestic
inflation and balance of payments evidence, to ensure its adequacy.



-56 -                                Annex IV
Page 5 of 7
In connection with expor: taxes, the Government intends to
gradually remove exporc taxes on agricultural commodi:ies as a significant
source of fiscal  revenues,   The first  phase of this program will be
represented by a roll-back to the races existing in May 1985 for exports
produced in the 1985/86 agricultural season, followed by a reduction to
rates not to exceed 70% of the May 1985 rates, and then to rates not to
exceed 50X of the Hay 1985 races- by the 1988 tax year; the latter would
represen: an average tax rate of about 9% on the five major crop
commodicies, considering the export mix of primary and processed products
(oils and meali).   Further reductions in a second phase of the program
would be made in accordance with the overall study of   ectoral taxation.and-
progress in developing effective substitute sources of tiscal revenue. The
objective is to maintain a low flexible level of export taxes, say around
5% on fob value, and to use this tax measure to assist in price
stabiliza:ion.
The Government has not made an analysis of the propor:ion of
fiscal revenues which should be supplied by the agr'cultural sector; nor is
it easy to define exactly how much the sector has been contribu:'ng to
total provincial and federal revenues because of the existing system of
fiscal accounting. Because of the heavy reliance the Governmen: has placed
on export taxes as an easily-collec:ed revenue source (about 11% of federal
revenues Ln 1983 and 1984), the agriculcural sector, as the main exporter,
has experienced a fluctuatng share in the total tax burden in accordance
with the export tax regime imposed by the Government at any one ctime,
rather chan in accordance with its net income generation or use of national
resources. Thus, the Government intends to carry out a study co determine
a basis for formulating an appropriate tax burden for agriculture in
relation to other sectors, and would also examine alternatives to export
taxes as a fiscal revenue measure, in addlt:.'on to :he proposed federal land
tax.
The Government intends to introduce a federal land tax as a major
source of seccoral taxation.  A draft law has been presented to Congress ir
(November   , 1985) to permit the implementation.of this tax which, for
cons:t:u:ional reasons, would be described as a tax payment advance against
profit, capital and net worth taxes under an emergency law format. The law
would  be  valid  for  f've  years,  as  is  customary  for  this  type  of
legislation,  and  would  be  renewable  for  five-year  periods.    Final
preparation activities were commenced in November 1985 and address
institutional  arrangements,  agroeconomLc  and cadastral  issues,  and  tax
collection and sharing agreements between the provinces and the Federal
Treasury.   The cadastral  base and administrative arrangements would be
satisfactory for the implementation of the first phase of che federal tax
(able to generate about US300 million) by mid-1986, and it is envisaged
that the cadascral base would be adequate for a federal land tax of over
USS500 aillion in 1988.



57 -                               Annex IV
Page 6 of 7
In 1984, the import tariff policy was modified to favor the use
of some agricultural inputs such as fertilizer and insecticides. However,
in Juce L985, 10 percentage points were added to existing tariffs as a
180-day measure to increase fiscal revenues.   In addition, the import of
tractors and a range of agricultural machinery is prohibited, and this
represents a constraint to the introduction of some appropriate technology
La farm machinery.   The Goverument will remove the temporary increase in
import tariffs on agricultural inputs at the expiration of the 180-day
period. Agricultural machinery currently ln the "prohibited" category will
be changed to the "prior review" category of imports.  The overall tariff
levels for all types of commodities will also be revieved with the-
objective of rationalizing tariff policies across all sectors.
There are other areas related to agriculture where the Government
also  intends  to act.    Fertilizer  use  has  been very low in Argentine
agriculcure, largely due to unfavorable benefit: cost ratios for use of
this input.   These ratios  have been poor, on the one hand because of
relatively low product price, and on the other hand because the cost of
fertilizer has been relatively h'gh.  The latter has occurred because the
price has been based on cif cost rather than a local cost of production,
and, until recently incurred an import tariff. The Government is adopting
three measures to promote the use of fertilfzer and thereby increase
production: (1) a payment-in-kind fertilizer credit program adWtnistered
chrough che JNG is designed to: (a) encourage the use of fertilizer by
guaranteeing a known price relationship between fertilizer and the final
producz   (which   has   been   an   important   concern   in   the   recent
hyperinflationary environment); and (b) promote sufficient fertilizer usage
to encourage the prvace sector to invest *in erficient and competitive
fertilizer dtstribution and service networks; (2) promotion of local
ferz'l'zer manufac:uring indus:ry based on existing natural gas resources;
and (3) continuation of applied research on che use of fer:il'zer on a
range of crops throughout the agricul:ural zones.
The Government policy with respec: to markeDing of agrcultural
produce will be to: (1) promote the participacion of the private sector,
especially cooperative organizations, in grain transport, storage and
marke:ing; (2) particlpate in infras:ructural investment where i: is
necessary to promote economic agricultural development in non-traditIonal
agricultural areas, or where Lt is necessary to complement the privace
sector investmenc to ensure orderly marketing of agrLcultural produicts; (3)
act as a compecitor in the agricultural commodity market where necessary
and set Lndicative export prices to ensure producers receive full market
value for their products (through JNG); and (4) provide or ensure adequate
marketing investmen: and operational credit.
The total agricultural sector credit portfolio in each of the
last few years has been lest than 50Z of the portfolio registered in 1980
reflecting the decline in the use of credit.  The enviroment of political
uncer:ainty and high inflation combined with posittve interest rates has
negatively affec:ed the demand for credit* especially long-term credit.



- 58 -                              Annex IV
Page 7 of 7
Hovever, in the case of short-term production credit, inadequate supply by
the Banco de la Nacion and Provincial Banks has been a constraint in recent
years.   The latcer has been associated with the Government's program of
credit  restriction  to  combat  inflation.    The  Government's  program  of
promoting increased agricultural production and exports will require
substantial  amounts  of  investment  and  short-cerm  credit.    Suttable
financing of the machinery pool is especially critical, as the purchase of
machinery is more dependent on the availabilty of attractive financing chan
on the price of the machine itself. As the economic stabilization program
brings inflacion under control, the Government intends to make adequace
resources available to financial institutions to meect ha demands for bach
long-term and short-term credit in the agricul:usAlasctor.
The Government has put togecher an ambitious program of policy
reform designed to have a lasting impact on the scructure of Argentina's
agriculture.   The Government believes that the export-oriented s:rategy
will yield positive results.
I should like co stress that while th's statement has focussed
upon economic adjustmen: agricultural policy, contntied emphasis would be
placed on a socioeconomic program to sustain growth, increase expor:s,
reform the financial sector, generace employment, and improve liviag
standards. Such development with the adjustment described in ths letter
remaias our medium-term goal.
In view of the measures befng taken, the .Argentine Government
would appreciate your favorable consIderacion of Let request for an
Agriculture Sector Loan. We look forward to a con:'nuing exchange of ideas
with the Bank and to the oppor;uni:y to discuss from cime to time the
progress made in mplemenzing those reforms.
Yours sincerely,
Juan V. Sourrouille
Minister of Economy
Buenos Aires, March 18, 1985



Area Ptanted to Maior Cereals ad Oilseeds. 1960181-1989/90
(t_Uxanu of hectares)
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90
wheat           6,196      6,566     7,410      7,200     6,000     5,700      5,000     4,850     4,660      5,656
Maize           4,000      3,695      3440      3,484     3,620     3,820      3,650     2,825     2,485      2,206
Sorghun         2.400      2.712     2.657      2550      2,040     1.400      1.127     1.075       820       819
TotaL           12,596    12,973    13,507    13,234    11,660    10,920       9,777     8,750     7,965     8,681
Soybeans         1,925     2,040     2,362      2,920     3,300     3,340      3,700     4,413     4,600     5,097
Sunflower        1,390     1,733     1,930      2,131     2,370     3,140      1,891     2,117     2,265      2,790
Linseed           780        851       910       810        620       750       758        671       153       590
Peanuts           201        180       125        146       146       176       240        194     _153         190
Total           4,296      4,804     5,327     6,007      6,436     7,406     6,589      7,395     7,588     8,667
Source: JNG and SAGyP
OQ
m
o a



Prodictian of Maior Cereals md Oils seeds, 1980IS-lgSO)90
(thossands of tans)
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87   1987/88    1988/89    1989/90
Wheat            7,780      8,300    15,000    13,000    13,600       8,700      9,000     9.500      8,360     10.150
Maize           12,900      9,600     9,000      9,500     11,900    12,100      9,250     9,200      4,260      5,000
Sorghtsn         7,5        _000      7.400      6.900     6.200      4.000      3.000     3.200      1.360      2.300
Total           28,230    25,900    31,400    29,400    31,700    24,800    21,250    21,900    13,980    17,450
Soybeans         3,977      4,150     4,000      7,000     6,500      7,100      6,700     9,900      6,250     11,000                          o
Sunflower        1,260      1,980     2,400      2,200     3,400      4,100      2,200     2,915      3,100     3,800
Lirseed            585        600       730        660       500        460        622       535        416       520
Peanuts            170        205       162        235       240        259        350       310        210       220
Total            5,785      6,935     7,935    10,095    10,640    11,919        9,872    13,660      9,976     15,540
Source: JNG and SAGyP
0
0 a
Ln Ce



tietds Ler Hectare of Major Croas. 198I-81-989I9O
(Kg per hectare)
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90 1/
Wheat            1,549     1,400     2,049      1,837     2,305      1,617     1,836     1,984     1,840      1,790
Maize            3,801     3,028     3,030      3,141     3,563     3,745      3,190     3,774     2,803      2,270
Sorghum         3,595      3,187     2,937      2,911     3,155     3,125      3,071     3,347     2,878      2,800
Soybeans        2,005      2,090     1,754      2,405     1,988     2,141      1,896     2,264     1,601      2,160                          1
Sunflower         984      1,184     1,262      1,106     1,447     1,346      1,268     1,435     1,437      1,360
Linseed           806        733       845       821        829       669       836        816       742       880
Peanuts           864      1,145     1,296      1,613     1,644     1,497      1,468     1,629     1,372      1,160
Source: JNG and SAGyP
o t
2 0
X-h 
v} 



-62 -                                          Annex V
Page 4 of 5
Grain ExDwrts 1980/81 to I90/90 Al
(mitlions of tons)
Wheat        Maize      Sorghum    Soybeans
1980-81                  3.9          0.9          4.9          2.7
1981-82                 4.3           4.9          5.2          1.7
1982-83                  7.5          6.5          4.9          1.4
1983-84                  9.7          5.9          4.8          3.0
1984-85                  0.8          0.7          3.4          3.3
1985-86                 6.1           7.4          2.2          2.6
1986-87                 4.3           0.4          1.0          1.3
1987-88                  0.5          0.5          0.8          2.6
1988-89                 3.2           3.1          1.1          2.1
1989-90                  5.5          2.8          1.1          0.4
Xf  Commercial years run from July 1 to June 30 of the fotlowing year.
So-rce: JNG



Agricultural Exworts od Effect of Export Taxes
Crop Year 1985/6                                              Crop Year 1988/9
Total              Export Tax                                     Total                 Export Tax
Exports     Ft8 Value      Value       Ueight at 5.1.1985         Exports    FOB Value        Vatue      Weight  at 10.26.19a8
tni l.tons)   (US$/ton)  (million USS)   (S)    tX of FOB)       (million tons) (USS/ton)  (million USS)  (t)        tX of FOB)
Wheat                          4.4           95        418.0        14         18              5.00         140            700        14            0
Maize                          7.0          100        700.0        22         21              6.00         120            720.       14            0                 1
Sorghum                        2.3           85        195.5         6         20              1.55         100            155         3            0                c
Sunflower Seed                 0.3          200         60.0         2         25              0.30         280            84          2           10                 I
Sunflower Seed Oil             1.1          440        484.0        15         14              0.95         500           475          9            0
Sunflower Seed Neml            1.4           65         91.0         3         15              1.25         130            163         3            0
Soybeans                       2.7          190        513.0        16         25              2.50         290           725         14           11
Soybean Oil                    0.6          410        246.0         8         10              1.25         480           600         12            3
Soybean Neal                   3.0          147        441.0        14         10              6.00         250           1500        29            3
Total                                                 314U.5       100                                                   5123        100
Weighted Average                                                               17.59                                                             2.97
Note:  Export and FOB value data for 1988/9 are based on JNG and Bank estimates.
o X



MAP SECTION



IBRD 19235
B 0 BOLIVIA              /            60
\    LaQu>ac . >   /  Po4 
CoranikuliQ       ;                           ARAGUA
"- PARAGUAY
Fi                                        j          \b ~~~~~U,UY                 _
.o  t gv,s <   '  ' ,vJ,5t,w,                           X  B R A Z I L
SALTA                                   Clorieda
*                      OIMOA  ~Bwrordo de
UC 'I;\':,,.  t UMANMI                                      :Ilngoi.n
4 J    | t  Z    <   RESIStENCI   _   Pasodas         .
iSonitago del Estero         C        ES
'             /  LAROJA              \      'MARCA
.30                           ,                                ,                                                                        30'
SAN JUA ~     ~        SATAP    ARN
MMENDOZA    SAN5  ,l                    ROlt SAR o uc                       /
n i la!  URUGUAY
C H I L E  ,        SAN RAFAELS                                        UE    AIRES
CH IE    CUf                k, 4        W ,          unn               LT
(' -~~~~)   Ja
(lenis  fl   U         I A
O                       S /-                                      ViEDDMA                       ARGENTINA
Son Crlos de Boriloche                              AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
PPuertoModma                                            LOAN
2 <5    t t 1,. k U 1  ;   iRAWUSON  E3    Area of the Pampa
Major roads
Rivers
CO)MOvRO                                        -  Province Eoundaries
CtRVADAVA                                                           -  InternationaJ Boundaries
El Salado
50                            *           RItO GALLEGOS
100 aW NS. ha., Pmd by
Th.~~ ~~ .t  ._  o -kw
*W P. kffhaha F~Wh                                 F~UEGO
ii Vd ft 15i.,dvo M'                    USfUAIA
NW m-p dsP ez It. ,N
aOnoa,d  IW , &NW'                                                            KILOMETERS 0          20d        400        600       s 
pailse d  nao e g.i I0
0rniOV ill,                                                                  KlO00TR 0d~t          2tl0___    400___________
-V." o, M       d                                                                  MiLES 0        100     200     300      400      500
.*q.,.nI                            70- il#ui0C6                           _T
SEPTEMBER 1985



