Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4161-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt35O MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
March 14, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY  QIVALETS
US$1 = Austral 0.80
'November 1, 1985)
UEICETS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)       = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)      = 2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton) = 1,000 kg
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIlONS
BNA      -   National Bank of Argentina
BCRP.    -   Central Bank of Argentina
CEM      -   Country Economic Memorandum
CFI      -   Consejo Federal de Inversiones
cif      -   Costs, Insurance and Freight
EC       -   Executive Committee for Implementation of Federal
Land Tax
EEC      -   European Economic Community
fob      -   Free on Board
IFC      -   International Finance Corporation
IMF      -   International Monetary Fund
INTA     -   National Institute of Agricultural Technology
JNC      -   National Meat Board
JNG      -   National Grain Board
PPF      -   Project Preparation Facility
PRONAGRO -   National Agricultur-al Development Program
SAG      -   Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock
and Fisheries
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Programme
VAT      -   Value-Added Tax
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Argentine Republic
Amount:           US$350 million equivalent
Terms:             15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:     The proposed loan would support the first phase of a
Government program to encourage increases in agricultural
production  and  exports.    Under  the  policy  package
supported by the proposed loan, the Government would:
(a) reduce export taxes on agricultural products;
(b) undertake fiscal measures designed to maintain the
overall fiscal deficit at satisfactory levels, including
the   introduction   of   a   federal   land   tax;   and
(c)  rationalize  import  tariffs  and  regulations  on
agricultural   inputs.       Complementary   studies   and
institutional support would also be financed.
Benefits and
Risks:            The  policy  reforms   would   stimulate   increases  in
agricultural production and exports by: (a) increasing
domestic  producer  prices,  bringing  them  closer  to
international prices and improving benefit-cost ratios
for investment and production inputs; and (b) reducing
the subsidy from producers to consumers. Additional net
foreign exchange earnings in excess of US$1 billion per
annum would be generated by 1989. The Government intends
to implement a structural change in Argentina's taxation
system by introducing a production-neutral federal land
tax substituting for production-negative export taxes.
The  beneficiaries  of  the  policy reform would be the
economy at large and efficient agricultural producers.
The risks in achieving the Program's objectives relate to
the possibility that the Government may not succeed: (a)
in stabilizing the economy, which would inhibit implemen-
tation of the policy reforms, and prevent the reduction
in export taxes and the anticipated production response;
(b) in being able to find suitable means of maintaining
the fiscal deficit at satisfactory levels; and (c) in
achieving an output response because the export tax
reduction may not be sufficient to change producer
incentives.    The  Government's  stabilization  program,
however, is considered appropriate to address current
economic difficulties and improve the investment climate
in the short-term. It has been successful in stabilizing
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorizaion.



- ii -
the economy.  The Government is also in the process of
undertaking a tax reform to seek fair and specific means
of maintaining the fiscal deficit at levels consistent
with price stability. These risks are also expected to
be reduced by IMF monitoring of its stand-by agreement
and by Bank monitoring in the context of the loan.
Finally, comprehensive quantitative analyses demonstrate
that profitability in agriculture would be increased
sufficiently by the export tax reduction to promote an
output response of the expected magnitude.
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY:                               1986    1987    1988
U1$ Million
-  Policy Component                   170.5   170.5      -
-  Studies/Institutional Support        1.5     4.4     3.1
Total (cumulative)             172.0   346.9   350.0
Appraisal
Report:             This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.
Map:               IBRD 19235.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Argentina for the equivalent of US$350 million in
support of its policies in the agricultural sector. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         An economic mission visited Argentina in June/July 1983 and its
report (4979-AR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1984.
This report reflects the major findings of that mission and subsequent
updating  missions.    The  Board  has  also  received  a  report  entitled
Argentina:   Strategies   toward   Industrial   and   Export   Development-
(5841b-AR), dated September 30, 1985. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex I.
Background
3.         Argentina has rich natural resources, a highly literate popula-
tion, an export-oriented and diversified agricultural sector and a large
industrial sector.  The economic performance of the country has suffered,
however, from policy instability and economic distortions introduced by the
frequently changing governments.   Except for agriculture, public sector
participation in the economy is high, industrial production is largely
domestic  market-oriented,  and  available  resources  are  not  utilized
efficiently.   A large public sector deficit has contributed significantly
to the country's recent very high inflation level.
A. Economic Developments of the Last Decade
4.        Over the last decade, abrupt shifts in economic policies weakened
Argentina's productive capacity and exacerbated structural imbalances.
Changes in policies produced large and rapid fluctuations in the real
exchange rate, real interest rates, and real salaries. The annual rate of
inflation was over 400X in 1976, fell to 100X in 1980 and accelerated again
to about 600% in 1984; the external trade balance as a share of GDP has
fluctuated between positive 4.8% and a negative 4.3%, while annual GDP
growth has ranged from plus 6.7% to minus 6.2%.



5.         High and rising inflation, physical and technological deteriora-
tion of the country's productive capacity, major dislocations in industrial
production and huge external debt service requirements have resulted in
general economic stagnation and recession, such that the real 1984 per
capita GDP was 14% lower than its 1974 level. Heavy borrowing in the late
1970s multiplied the country's external debt as a share of GDP sevenfold
(from 10% to 68%).   Today, interest payments on the external debt absorb
nearly half of gross domestic savings, compared to less than 5% in the
early 1970s.
6.         The productive sectors, particularly manufacturing, are beset by
thorny structural and financial problems. More than 40% of capacity in the
construction industry, artificially inflated during a brief construction
boom of the late 1970s, now stands idle.  Significant underutilization of
capacity also exists in many manufacturing industries and most firms also
lack sufficient work'ng capital.   Financial intermediation is costly and
inefficient, interest rates are high both in nominal and real terms, and
oversized   banking   institutions   are   suffering   severe   difficulties.
Argentina's self-sufficiency in oil has deteriorated as the ratio of oil
reserves  to annual output has declined.   Proven  reserves  of gas have
increased, but the processing and transport infrastructure to exploit them
is deficient.
7.          The public sector is simultaneously overstaffed and seriously
short of managerial and technical expertise.   Ineffective tax administra-
tion, together with inadequate budgeting and investment planning processes,
contribute significantly to the large public sector deficit.   Cuts in
investment to curb the public sector deficit have led to a deterioration of
social infrastructure and have jeopardized the reliability of power supply.
B. Policies for Adjustment
8.           Economic mismanagement and the consequences of the 1982 South
Atlantic crisis hastened  the departure of the military Government.   A
democratically elected Government took office at the end of 1983, facing
spiralling inflation and growing balance of payments difficulties.   Also,
the after-effects of the industrial recession were threatening the solvency
of the financial system.
9.         Toward the end of 1984, the Government entered into a 15-month
stand-by agreement with the IMF and rescheduled its external debt with
official creditors, covering interest and principal up to 1985, and with
the commercial banks, covering principal up to 1985.  It also obtained the
commitment  of  US$4.2  billion  in   fresh money   to finance  the  current
account deficit and to eliminate arrears accumulated through 1983-85. The
principal objectives of the stabilization program were to: (a) lower the
rate of inflation from an average of about 20% per month in the last
quarter of 1984 to about 8% per month by the end of 1985; and (b) achieve a
balance of payments  position  that would  enable  Argentina  to meet  its
external obligations while satisfying the needs of domestic recovery.
10.         The Government moved to comply with the conditions under the
stand-by agreement despite a deepening recession.  The fiscal deficit was
reduced to 13% of GDP during the last quarter of 1984 and the real exchange



- 3 -
rate was improved by 17% between September and December.  Public utility
prices were raised 9% in real terms. Inflation, however, continued at full
speed after a brief pause in October and November. Output and employment
and the value of real exports began declining. Monthly wage indexation was
reduced to 90Z of the previous month's inflation, from 100% earlier; real
wages also fell 17% from July to December. By the end of 1984, shortfalls
from the agreed targets of the program were observed; during the first
quarter of 1985, the Government's adherence to the program became weaker.
Therefore, the DIMF suspended the first conditional draw-down under the
stand-by agreement until the completion of the 1985 first quarter review of
the program.
11.        A new economic team took office in late February 1985 and began
preparing a new package to deal with inflation which had already exceeded
20Z per month.   By the second quarter of 1985, economic conditions had
worsened significantly. The economy was facing spiralling inflation while
the recession intensified. The Government then decided to abandon gradual-
ism in favor of  shock treatment  and set about to prepare the country for
a major change in economic policy necessary to break inflationary expecta-
tions. In June 1985, the Government devalued the peso by 18% to improve
relative prices, raised the price of meat by almost 100,Z and introduced a
number of fiscal measures with the purpose of drastically reducing the
overall fiscal deficit.  It increased prices of petroleum and gas products
and tariffs on electricity, telephone, transport and postal services; a
temporary 10% import surcharge and a 9 percentage points increase in the
export tax were approved; a 12% cut in the 1985 budget expenditure took
place; and a hiring freeze was declared in the public sector.  Following
these measures, the Government announced a very strong adjustment program
and initiated its implementation.  The program was subsequently supported
by a revised, and more stringent, stand-by agreement with the IMF.
12.       The Government's economic program comprised: (a) a drastic cut in
the total public sector deficit (including Central Bank operating losses)
from 12.5% of GDP in the first half of 1985 to 2.5% on average in the
second half of 1985, with the deficit to be financed by external borrowing,
thus eliminating domestic credit expansion to the public sector.  Further
expenditure cuts were to follow the ones undertaken and lower inflation was
to shorten revenue collection lags and allow for lower nominal interest
rates, thus reducing interest service payments; (b) a reduction in the
balance of payments' current account deficit from 3.5% of GDP in 1984 to
2.4% in 1985; (c) a monetary reform that included the introduction of a new
currency unit pegged to the US dollar and a system for de-indexing peso-
denominated contracts;  and  (d) a wage-price  freeze.   The program was
supported by an agreement with commercial bank creditors to: (a) reschedule
about US$13.9 billion in principal payments during the period of the stand-
by (1985/86); (b) provide US$4.2 billion of new money, of which US$2.2
billion were to be disbursed by September 1985; (c) establish a trade
credit maintenance facility to maintain such financing at its level of
September 30, 1984; and (d) establish a stand-by money market facility that
maintains creditor banks' deposits with Argentine banks at their level of
September 30, 1984.
13.         The Government has been able to stabilize the economy in the
short-term, and meet the targets and draw down the first tranche under the



- 4 -
DMF stand-by agreement. The monthly rate of inflation, as measured by the
consumer price index, has dropped from 30X in June of 1985 to 2.5X in
December.  The overall public sector deficit has been reduced to about 4Z
of GDP as a result of the revenue and expenditure measures and the sharp
drop in inflation. The reserve position of the Central Bank has also shown
some improvement, reflecting increased confidence in the Government's
policies.  The Government has also received the first disbursement of new
money under the agreement with the commercial banks. Almost all political
and social groups have thus far supported the program despite its austere
nature.  Since cuts in public spending and high real interest rates will
have a dampening effect on domestic demand, the Government has been careful
not  to  raise  expectations  for  a  quick  economic  recovery.    In  this
connection,   the  industrial  and  other  non-agricultural  sectors  are
experiencing a severe recession which began in late 1984.   Real GDP is
estimated to have declined by about 4.5% in 1985.  Export response to the
program has not yet been significantly positive, and recent floods have
adversely affected the exportable output of grains. The Government has now
moved into a second stage of its program under which it proposes to
undertake the policy actions needed to resume strong economic growth on a
sustained basis.   The Government's program focusses on the expansion of
exports,   stimulation   of  new  construction,   privatization  of  state
enterprises and greater reliance on the private sector for oil exploration
and production.
14.         The program's risks relate to the possibility of a renewal of
inflationary pressures once the wage and price freeze is relaxed.   Thus,
the Government has indicated that the freeze will continue into 1986 and
then be phased out gradually.  The Government's economic program has been
far more successful than initially expected and augurs well for improved
economic performance.   A continued effort to reduce the overall fiscal
deficit below current levels will be required to break longer-term infla-
tionary expectations and ensure the program's success.  Thus, the Govern-
ment has indicated that it will continue to act in the fiscal area as
needed.
C. Development ProspectF and Policy Requirements
15.       Argentina's growth performance in the next five years will depend
heavily on the continued success of the present stabilization policies and
the initiation of structural reforms. Restoring domestic and overseas con-
fidence in economic management and renewing private sector investment will
require maintaining the recent trends in price stability.  Moreover, given
the burden of external interest payments on Argentina's gross domestic
savings, public investment will be limited largely to improving the
efficiency of existing capacity and completing unfinished projects.   The
Government has stated its intention to give priority to those projects
which alleviate immediate bottlenecks, have a high rate of return and can
generate foreign exchange.
16.       Argentina's key development objectives are to: (a) strengthen and
expand the growth of exports in order to reduce the country's external debt
relative to GDP and exports; and (b) resume medium-term growth as the
stabilization program takes hold.  The Government's economic program and
policies are being designed to achieve these objectives.   In particular,
special emphasis is being given to the elimination of distortions in order



-5-
to produce a rapid output and export response.   Faster recovery of per
capita consumption can take place only after medium-term growth has
resumed.
17.        The Government has formulated a medium-term growth strategy for
1985-89. The strategy is based on an improvement of the investment climate
and the restoration of adequate export incentives.   The proposed policy
measures are closely in line with the recommendations of the 1984 Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM), i.e., (a) improvement in public sector finances
and efficiency; (b) overhaul of the tax system and tax administration;
(c) reduction in the number of public enterprises and reform of government-
enterprise relationships; (d) improvements in incentives for private indus-
try and agriculture; (e) reform of the financial system and active support
for manufacturing exports; and (f) increased oil exports through increased
private sector participation. Since the strategy aims to promote productive
fixed investments, real per capita consumption is projected to rise only
slightly during 1985-90.   The Government is now in the process of giving
this strategy concrete operational content and defining the instruments for
its implementation to make it viable over the medium-term.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Improving Argentina's growth prospects for the rest of the decade
would require successful implementation of the adjustment program during
1986, the rescheduling of the country's external debt by its creditors as
it falls due, continued lending at the agreed amounts, and a continued
expansion  in  exports  through  the  rest  of  the  decade.    Under  those
assumptions, the current account deficit of the balance of payments is
projected to reach about US$2.3 billion per year during 1986, equivalent to
3.2X of GDP, to be financed largely by disbursements from the IMF stand-by
agreement, increasing disbursements of existing and projected loans from
public  sources,  and  direct  foreign  investment.    Based on  the  timely
adoption by the Government of medium-term growth policies, real GDP growth,
beginning in 1986, could resume at about 3% per year on average.   This
growth depends on the projected expansion in exports, in particular, by
increasing agricultural production through intensified use of fertilizer
and  expanding  industrial  production  through    renewed  private  sector
investment activities, and on the availability of sufficient external
financing.   Under these assumptions,  the current account deficit would
decline rapidly from 1988 on, as a result of increasing proceeds from grain
and manufacturing exports.   Thus,  the current account deficit  of the
balance of payments is projected to fall below US$100 million in 1990.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
19.         At the end of 1985, the total public sector external debt of
Argentina was US$42.5 billion. From US$8.4 billion at the end of 1978, it
had grown more than four-fold. The structure of the debt also had changed
radically during the 1978-1983 period.   At the end of 1978, the debt to
commercial banks constituted 38% of the total, but this ratio rose to 60%
by the end of 1980, and to 87% by the end of 1984.  By 1979, total debt
service requirements already had gone beyond the reach of net exports, and
since 1982 the trade surplus, although large, has not been sufficient to
pay the accrued interest.  Thus, when the South Atlantic crisis disrupted
normal roll-overs and lending in 1982, Argentina began accumulating
principal and interest arrears.   The Government  provided exchange  rate
guarantees for the rescheduled private external debt and eventually assumed



- 6 -
a large part of the private sector's external obligations. Total external
debt, including arrears and private sector obligations, reached US$46
billion by the end of 1983. Following the agreements with the IMF and its
creditors, Argentina initiated a program to eliminate payment arrears, with
commercial banks contributing US$4.2 billion to the effort.
20.         A continued effort by the Government in implementing domestic
policy reform, including a reduction in protectionism, combined with
external support from financial sources, should enhance Argentina's export
potential and thus improve prospects of reducing its debt servicing ratio
and also its total debt as a percentage of GDP during the 1990s. Provided
that the arrears are eliminated according to the current program and that
the debt amortization payments due in 1986 are restructured with a modest
increase in the commercial banks' exposure, Argentina should be able to
meet the servicing requirements of its external debt, including new
borrowing for high-yielding projects which would support Increased foreign
exchange generation, efficient import substitution and increased domestic
resource mobilization. At the end of 1985, the Bank's share of Argentina's
total debt outstanding and disbursed was 1.4% and its share of external
debt service payments was 2.3%.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
21.         Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of
periodic macroeconomic and sectoral difficulties.   In the period 1979-
December 1985, the Bank made loans for ten projects totalling US$1,045
million.  Bank lending since 1980 has focused on major infrastructure pro-
jects and provision of credit ior development of the industrial and hydro-
carbon sectors. The Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project is intended to harness
the enormous potential of the Parana River to provide base-load electric
energy for Argentina in the 1990s.  The Second Industrial Credit Project
supports the modernization and expansion of export-oriented industries. A
Highway Sector Project is helping to augment and maintain the road
network.  In parallel with the above projects, the Bank has supported the
Government's efforts to exploit Argentina's energy resources; for this
purpose, five loans were approved during the above-mentioned period to:
(a) help Argentina assess its hydrocarbon reserves; (b) improve the basis
for rational exploitation of coal resources; (c) facilitate private sector
participation in exploration and production of oil and gas; (d) alter the
country's two major refineries in order to meet changing demand patterns;
and (e) expend Argentina's capacity to make effective use of its hydro-
carbon reso- rces and increase the utilization of natural gas and its
by-products.  The Water Supply and Sewerage Project approved by the Board
last December will help improve sector finances and develop provincial
agencies.
22.        In recent years, Bank operations in the agriculture sector have
been limited to three projects. The Balcarce Livestock Development Project
was designed to encourage the adoption of new technology in pasture produc-
tion and management and in animal health practices; it was completed with
mixed results. The Agricultural Credit Project was approved in May 1978 as
a follow-up to the Balcarce Project, to provide medium and long-term credit
for on-farm investment.    It could not be implemented because of the
availability of alternative finance at more attractive terms, and was
cancelled in April 1980.  The present Grain Storage Project is designed to



- 7 -
Increase volumes and improve the efficiency of grain exports.   Following
changes, the project now provides f or:   (a) government construction and
rehabilitation of 27 silos; (b) a credit line for private sector investment
in grain storage and handling facilities; (c) purchase of some 845
rail-cars for grain transport; and (d) improvements in railway and port
infrastructure. All components have now been initiated.
23.         The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Argentina has
suffered in recent years from policy reversals, cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures, cu:'bs on public investments stemming from the need for fiscal
austerity, and the private sector's reluctance to invest in an uncertain
economic environment.  The Government shares the Bank's concern about this
situation,  which has  resulted  in unexpectedly slow disbursements.    In
response, several existing projects, including the Second Industrial Credit
and the Oil and Gas Credit Projects, have been restructured to improve
their execution and the First Vocational Training end Technical Education
Project is in process of being restructured. The Bank has also instituted
procedures for monitoring monthly disbursements and for periodic project
implementation reviews with the Government. Disbursements under Bank loans
in 1985 were more than double the 1984 rate.
24.        Promising prospects for political stability and serious efforts
by this Government to tackle Argentina's thorny economic problems provide
the Bank with an opportunity to play a key role in the country's economic
recovery and future development.  The Government has requested the Bank's
help in implementing a stabilization program and in preparing the way for
renewed long-rerm e'onomic growth.  Over the short-term, the Government is
seeking help with economic analyses and expanded lending operations
designed to enhance domestic resource mobilization and increase the avail-
ability of foreign exchange. Our economic and sector work program includes
a comprehensive export-oriented industrial study and a major public sector
investment review which is being completed. Recently, Bank staff discussed
with the Government the framework of a medium-term economic policy reform
and development program that could lay the grounds for expanded external
lending to foster economic growth and strengthen Argentina's debt servicing
capacity.
25.         The Bank has appraised a proposed Bahia Blanca Port Project,
which would reduce shipping costs for grain exports and a Supplementarv
Refinery Conversion Project to support the substitution of abundant natural
gas for oil.  The Bank is also processing a Technical Assistance Loan for
reforning public sector management and strengthening the international
competitiveness  of the economy.   Preparations are underway for further
support of the energy sector directed at distribution and transmission
requirements.   Preparation is also underway for further support  in the
industrial sector in the areas o' small and medium scale enterprises rnd
financial restructuring of private and public sector firms.   The Bank is
also reviewing possibilities, based on the recommendations of recent public
sector investment and industrial sector development missions, to cooperate
with the Government through policy-based lending in the implementation of
important structural reforms, apart from the reforms initiated under the
proposed Agricultural Sector Loan, in the areas of trade and privatization
of state enterprises.
26.           IFC has made 25 investments in Argentina, totalling US$251
million, of which US$142 million has been repaid, cancelled or sold.   A
summary of its investments is shown in Annex II.  Promotional efforts are



- 8 -
geared to export or import substitution-oriented projects with emphasis on
oil, petrochemicals and related sectors.   IFC will also continue to seek
investments in projects where its presence would facilitate the formation
of joint ventures with foreign participation, and act as a catalyst to
attract higher levels of commercial financing.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Overview
27.       Argentina's agricultural sector contributes about 15% of GDP, 17Z
of employment, 75% of foreign exchange earnings, and between 14% and 20Z of
Central Government tax revenues, principally in the form of export taxes.
Argentina's diverse agroclimatic base permits production of a wide range of
agricultural commodities that enables self-sufficiency in most agricultural
needs. Cereals and oilseeds represent principal crop activities, account-
ing for over 90% of the area devoted to crop production. The country has a
variety of climatic conditions ranging from subtropical to cold, but lies
mainly in the temperate zone.  Production conditions in Argentina allow it
to have a comparative advantage compared to most of its competitors. While
agriculture has been growing at a rate of about 3% annually in recent
years, the sector is advancing below its production potential. The sector
has progressed in technological improvements (farm mechanization, improved
varieties, better crop rotation, and double-cropping), despite government
policies non-conducive to rapid introduction of modern technologies and,
more recently, the deterioration in the terms of trade resulting from fall-
ing world prices.
28.         Crop production has grown more than livestock since the early
1970s, primarily through yield improvements rather than area expansion.
Yield increases have arisen predominantly from the gradual adoption of
modern technologies: (a) higher yielding varieties; (b) plant-protecting
chemicals; and Cc) more appropriate farm mechanization permitting improved
land preparation and better-timed operations.  Each of these technological
changes has normally led to high returns on investment with little risk
and, except in the case of machinery, has not implied major outlays per
hectare. This explains the level of adoption that has occurred even though
the policy environment has been less than favorable.  Cereal production is
dominated by three main crops--wheat, maize, and sorghum--which account for
about 95% of total cereal production and for over 95Z of cereal exports.
The growth rate of soybeans as a double-crop has been particularly out-
standing, supported by a simultaneous increase in area planted and in
average yields. Crop-related exports rose from about 70% of total agricul-
tural exports in the late 1970s to above 80% in 1983/84.   Argentina has
generally been supplying about 5% of the annual world wheat exports in
recent years and is the fifth largest wheat exporter (after the US, Canada
Australia, and the EEC).   In maize and sorghum exports, Argentina ranks
second only to the US and accounts for about 12% of the world market.
Nearly all cereals and oilseed crops are produced under rainfed conditions,
and fertilizer is used on only a small proportion of total cultivated
area. While rainfed production is expected to continue to dominate, there
is substantial e_ope for greater use of fertilizer and other inputs and for
investment in infrastructure and equipment to enhance production.



29.         The slower growth of livestock production since the mid-1970s
partly reflects the normal production cycles of the three major livestock
activities (cattle, sheep, and pigs), and also a declining export market
for beef as the dominant livestock product; the latter situation has been
largely due to subsidized exports from the EEC.  With beef prices rela-
tively higher than cereals in the late 1960s and early 1970s, the national
cattle herd increased substantially up to 1976/77.   During the 1973-76
period, crop:beef price ratios began to favor cash cropping, resulting in
expansion of cash crop production. Expansion of soybeans as a double-crop
with wheat also coincided with this shift away from beef.   Livestock
exports fell from about 30% of total agricultural export revenues in
1976-80 to less than 10% by 1984. Beef export tonnage was only about 10%
of production in 1984.
B. Constraints on Agricultural Growth
30.        Despite technological advances, a well-developed input distribu-
tion system, and a highly competitive environment for agricultural product
marketing, the agricultural sector has been growing below potential. This
has been largely the result of pricing policies that have depressed domes-
tic prices for outputs through export taxes, and artificially raised the
costs of some key farm inputs through import tariffs.   As a consequence,
most farmers have opted for low-risk:lower-input technologies that have
translated into a significant opportunity cost to the economy in terms of
foregone  production  and export  earnings.    Average wheat  yields,  for
example, were 70% of those in the US during the 1980-82 period, in large
measure reflecting the use of insufficient technological packages in
response to unfavorable pricing policies.
31.       The Producer's Economic Environment.  Historically, farmers have
had to face abrupt shifts in domestic economic policies, in addition to
coping with commodity price fluctuations occurring in international
markets. The high overall level of export taxes, and the price uncertainty
associated with changing export tax rates and with inappropriate exchange
rate policies, have had negative effects on agricultural investment.   In
March 1985 export taxes on agricultural commodities were lowered as part of
a strategy to stimulate production.   However, in early June 1985, the
Government increased expcrt taxes by nine percentage points following the
18% devaluation; this was designed to avoid short-term windfall profits to
producers and to provide increased fiscal revenues to alleviate the public
sector deficit.
32.       The relatively high cost of some modern inputs, combined with the
reduced product prices caused by the export tax policy, has meant that
benefit:cost ratios for use of many high yield technologies were unfavor-
able.  Until early-1984, import tariffs on agricultural inputs were sub-
stantial, ranging from 25% for urea and veterinary medicines to 38% for
agricultural machinery and plant protection chemicals. After reductions in
tariffs on some key inputs in 1984, principally on nitrogenous fertilizers
and insecticides, import tariffs were raised in early-June 1985 by 1OZ as
another fiscal deficit-control measure with a validity period of 180 days.
There is also a current prohibition (with exemptions subject to protracted



- 10 -
and complicated procedures) on the import of a range of agricultural
machinery; this represents a development constraint in the case of some
items which are non-traditional or of unusual engineering design (e.g.,
excavators and efficient subsoilers).   Argentina is also subject to two
other disadvantages compared to competing exporting countries: (a) on the
input side, it does not have an efficient local fertilizer industry,
resulting in higher cif-based fertilizer costs; and (b) on the output side,
since exporters usually cannot offer advantageous financing conditions to
buyers, they generally receive lower prices than their competitors.
33.       Price distortions have arisen largely because of the Government's
policy of taxing agric'iltural exports and imported inputs in an effort to
satisfy the non-agricultural objectives of: (a) maintaining low food prices
in urban markets; (b) protecting domestic producers of agricultural inputs;
and (c) raising fiscal revenues.  Export taxes, by far the more serious of
the two taxes, have been traditional.   Agricultural exports are currently
taxed at rates up to 38% on the fob value, excluding a 1.5% levy (para.
40).  By reducing domestic prices, they constitute a price control device
that increases real wages in the urban sector at the expense of agricul-
tural producers.  In most recent years, export taxes contributed about 11%
to Central Government fiscal revenues, representing about 1.2% of GDP.
Export taxes have come to represent the third most important source of
Central Government revenues after value-added and fuel taxes, earning about
US$1,000 million in 1983 (1.4% of GDP) and in 1984 and an estimated
US$1,300 million in 1985 (1.8% of GDP).  Soybeans, maize and wheat account
for over 60% of export  tax revenues.   The provinces of Buenos Aires,
Cordoba, and Santa Fe collectively contribute over 75% of these revenues.
From the Government's view, the export tax has a number of advantages. It
is easy to collect;  collection costs are low and controls are simple.
Second, changes in tax rates can be enacted by the Government's executive
branch without Congressional approval, providing flexibility in varying
fiscal revenues in the short-term. Third, export taxes have the political
advantage of reducing consumer prices and providing an advantage to pro-
cessing industries that use agricultural commodities as raw materials.
Export taxes, however, are a serious constraint to production and export
expansion by reducing price incentives for input use and on-farm
investments.
34.       Agricultural producers are also subject to federal income and net
worth taxes.   Scarcity of data precludes identification of agriculture's
contribution to these taxes, but both taxes are relatively small.   Total
collection of both taxes fell to historical lows in 1984: income tax, from
2.4% of GDP in 1977 to 0.5%, and net worth tax, from 1.0% of GDP in 1982 to
0.6%.  Provincial taxation of land is relatively low as a percent of GDP,
although it represents an important source of revenues for most provinces,
particularly in the Pampa zone.  Land taxes represented 22% of provincial
taxes in 1983, and Buenos Aires Province, which has the most developed land
tax system, collected US$135 million in land taxes in 1984. Agriculture is
affected by relatively high special taxes on gasoline and diesel fuels,
whizh apply across all sectors.   Value-aided taxes (VAT) on agricultural
inputs range from zero on veterinary products to 18% on pesticides and
machinery, but VAT payments can be discounted against net worth taxes due
from agricultural enterprises.



- 11 -
C. Recent Changes in Agricultural Policies
35.           The Government recognizes the need to stimulate agricultural
production and exports to achieve economic recovery and has formulated a
four-pronged action plan to achieve this goal.  First, the Government has
clearly established its intent to reduce significantly export taxes and
substitute alternative revenue-generating instruments less damaging to
agricultural productivity.    The  recent  increases  in export  tax rates
(para. 31) have been viewed as a temporary, yet necessary, component of its
economic stabilization program.   Second, the Government has a policy of
reducing tariffs on imported agricultural inputs to encourage their use,
even though reducing the fiscal deficit necessitated a temporary across-
the-board tariff increase on all imports (para. 32).   Before the recent
increase, Government had eliminated tariffs on most agricultural inputs not
produced in the country, fertilizers were freed of tariffs and those
insecticides which are also produced locally carried only a 10% tariff.
Third, the Government's policy is to phase out most quantitative import
restrictions (para. 56).  Fourth, the Government has committed itself in
its agreements with the IMF to exchange rate adjustments thac would help
maintain export competitiveness.
36.       Other complementary initiatives have been taken.  The Secretariat
of Agriculture, Livestock, and Fisheries (SAG) has produced a medium-term
development plan (the National Agricultural Development Program--PRONAGRO)
that is largely in line with the recommendations made by the Bank's last
CEM.   The Government also introduced  a payment-in-kind credit  pragram
sponsored by the National Grain Board to stimulate fertilizer use which
started in the 1984 winter crop season.   In addition, the Government has
presented to Congress draft legislation to enable it to introduce, in 1986,
a production-neutral federal land tax as a partial substitute for export
taxes. Lastly, the Government is planning to promote the expansion of the
country's domestic fertilizer industry utilizing abundant natural gas
resources as a principal feedstock, consistent with recommendations of a
November 1984 Bank mission.
37.       PRONAGRO defines the following sectoral objectives: (a) increase
production of cereals and oilseeds; (b) expand agricultural exports;
(c) develop regional economies, particularly in the relatively neglected
non-Pampa zone; (d) generate employment; and (e) encourage natural resource
conservation.   It proposes achievement of these objectives  by adopting
distinct, complementary strategies in the Pampa and non-Pampa areas,
bolstered by selective nationwide initiatives.   In the Pampa, PRONAGRO
proposes concentration on cereal and oilseed development through techno-
logical improvements, agroindustrial development to capture more value
added in exports, increased investment in grain storage, and expansion of
cultivated area.  The last activity would be associated with a shift of
livestock production to less productive, non-Pampa areas with concomitant
upgrading  of  livestock  technology.    In  the non-Pampa  zone,  PRONAGRO
proposes emphasizing expansion of traditional and newer, higher value
activities, opening new areas for cultivation of grains and other export-
able items, agro-based infrastructure, and integrated rural development.
National initiatives geared to complement zonal programs would include
gradually replacing export taxes with a federal land tax based on



- 12 -
unimproved market value, eliminating import tariffs on agricultural inputs,
making fertilizer and herbicide use more economically attractive, granting
INTA financial and administrative autonomy in its research and extension
pursuits, upgrading meat processing and storage facilities, encouraging
dairy development, and broadening lines of credit for private investment in
the sector.
D. Institutional Framework
38.        Argentina's agricultural development program involves the par-
ticipation of the institutions described below:
39.       Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries (SAG).  SAG
is responsible for the establishment and implementation of agricultural
policy.   The Secretary of Agriculture has cabinet rank, but SAG is under
the purview of the Ministry of Economy.   In addition to formulating pro-
grams to attain policy objectives, SAG coordinates the activities of imple-
menting agencies operating within the sector.
40.       National Institute of Agricultural Technology (INTA).   INTA is
Argentina's principal agricultural research agency. While operating under
the aegis of SAG, since April 1984 INTA has been financed through a sur-
charge of 1.5% on agricultural exports and has received support from the
Interamerican Development Bank.   In addition  to its regular  technical
publication program, INTA's research activities serve as an important
resource for private and public extension technicians who service producers
and  producer  organizations.    INTA  also  conducts  training  for  these
technicians.
41.       National Bank of Argentina (BNA).  Established in 1891 and owned
by the Government, BNA is the largest of Argentina's four national banks.
It is classified as a commercial bank but its charter gives priority to
supporting agricultural production.   BNA has historically accounted for
about 50% of institutional lending to the agricultural sector (the provin-
cial banks of Buenos Aires and Cordoba are the other major agricultural
lending institutions). BNA has over 500 branch offices and has been one of
the Government's key financial agents for borrowing from international
organizations.
42.       National Grain Board (JNG).   JNG, an autonomous agency of SAG,
establishes grading systems and marketing regulations for grain trade,
administers and manages public grain elevators and storage facilities,
participates in domestic and foreign trade, and acts as SAG's executing
agency in its payment-in-kind fertilizer program.  JNG was the sole buyer
and exporter of the major grains in the mid-1970s until the Government
liberalized the grain trade and shifted emphasis to development of market-
ing by the private sector.  JNG is authorized to operate in the domestic
market to ensure adequate domestic supplies and to meet international com-
mitments made by the Government. JNG can also fix support prices for grain
to be adjusted with market conditions, but has limited this activity and
doe" not affect market prices by this means; it does, however, effectively
compete in the market.



- 13 -
43.       National Meat Board (JNC).  JNC is an autonomous agency of SAG
with control and service functions in the cattle, pig and sheep slaughter
industries. It has responsibility for sanitary control of slaughter facil-
ities, livestock yard-sale supervision, meat classification and export
quality control, live animal and meat statistical and market information,
and industry economic investigation. A slaughterhouse levy of IZ of animal
value provides most of the resources required to run the JNC, which
receives no budgetary allocation for its operation.
PART IV - THE LOAN
A. Loan History
44.       The proposed Agricultural Sector Loan was prepared by the Govern-
ment and examined by an appraisal mission in Hay/June 1985 and by a post-
appraisal mission in August 1985, subsequent to a request from the Govern-
ment to assist in the implementation of policy changes in agriculture.
This request followed a dialogue with the Government on the CEM dated
June 22,  1984.   Negotiations with the Government were held on January
13-17,  1986.   The Government delegation was led by Mr. Ramon da Bouza,
Director of External Finance, Ministry of Economy.
B. Loan Objectives
45.       The proposed loan is the first of several Bank policy loans which
are intended to assist Argentina in tackling distortions in the economy.
It is aimed at improving the incentives necessary for more intensive use of
agricultural  resources  to increase production  and  exports.    Argentina
already has a relatively well-developed and export-oriented agricultural
sector.   While the sector faces relatively less distortions than other
sectors in the economy, and therefore offers promising prospects for rapid
response, it also faces important constraints to its deveiopment.   The
reforms described below are a prerequisite to realizing the potential for
increasing production and foreign exchange critically needed for the
country's economic recovery.   The implementation of these reforms would
also be consistent with the immediate fiscal revenue requirements in
Argentina's current economic stabilization program.
C. Loan Description
46.         The policy reforms and complementary activities included under
the Government's program include: (a) a substantial reduction in export
taxes; (b) undertaking fiscal measures to maintain the overall fiscal
deficit at satisfactory levels, including the introduction of a federal
land tax; (c) modify regulations and tariffs pertaining to the import of
agricultural inputs and (d) complementary studies and institutional
support.   These reforms have been set forth in a Government statement on
macroeconomic and agricultural sector policy (Annex IV) incorporating the
principles of the reforms and a number of actions to be undertaken by the
Government for this purpose.
47.        Export Tax Reduction Program.   The Government is aware of the
production-negative impact of export taxes, as was evidenced by the reduc-
tion in the tax rates in March 1985 (para. 31). However, export taxes have



- 14 -
contributed about US$1 billion annually to fiscal revenues in recent years,
and cannot be reduced without an alternative source of revenues.   This
replacement is even more critical in view of the ongoing economic stabili-
zation program.
48.        Consequently, the Government is assuming at this stage that the
sector will have to provide a large part of the substitute revenues for
export taxes foregone, at least in the immediate future.  A land tax is a
feasible  alternative  means of generating substantial revenues,  and  the
Government will present to Congress, as a condition of loan effectiveness,
draft legislation for the introduction of a federal land tax which would
yield initially about 0.5% of GDP.  Existing data on tax collections does
not serve to accurately define agriculture's current contribution to fiscal
revenues since it only includes tax collections from a few provinces.
Similarly, further analysis is required to assess the proportion of fiscal
revenues  that should be supplied by  the sector.   The Government  will
therefore undertake studies to determine the appropriate level of taxation
for the agriculture sector and to analyze the possibilities of alternative
fiscal measures to complement the fiscal revenues from the land tax.
49.        The IMF supports the reduction in export taxes to strengthen the
competitiveness of exports within a viable macroeconomic framework which
would maintain the overall fiscal deficit at agreed levels. The Argentine
authorities have included in the 1986 Budget the measures needed to
control the fiscal deficit at satisfactory levels, consistent with the
objectives of the stabilization program.
50.       The reduction in export taxes would proceed progressively over a
four-year period.   The Government  has already rescinded  the June 1985
export tax increase applicable to wheat, maize, sorghum, sunflower,
sunflower oil, sunflower meal, soybeans, soybean oil and soybean meal. It
was agreed during negotiations that all of these would be conditions of
loan effectiveness; hence, the Government has moved more expeditiously than
envisaged at that time. The Government has already provided the Bank with
the 1986 budget information indicating the fiscal measures compensating for
the loss of revenues arising from this reduction. The resulting reduction
in the sector's tax payment would be about US$300 million. As a condition
of release of the second tranche of the proposed loan, the Government would
further reduce export taxes on all agricultural commodities to a level not
to exceed 70% of the May 1985 level, or such other level as may be agreed
between the Government and the Bank, based on a forecast of the revenues to
be generated by the projected federal land tax (para. 51) and other
measures affecting public sector revenues and expenditures in 1987.  This
second reduction is projected to result in a decrease in export taxes of
US$270 million.   A larger reduction in export taxes during the initial



- 15 -
phase of the program would be difficult to substitute and, therefore, could
seriously jeopardize the possibilities for continued success of the
Government's adjustment program, which has already required a sharp
reduction in the overall fiscal deficit. It is the Government's intention
to further reduce export taxes on the major commodities consistent with
export competitiveness.   It expects to seek Bank support in implementing
the later stages of this program.
51.         The Federal Land Tax.  The draft legislation provides for the
introduction of a federal land tax based largely on unimproved land market
values. Since there are some constitutional constraints to the establish-
ment of a federal land tax, the proposed land tax would be computed as an
advance payment of other taxes (i.e., taxes on income and capital) and
given an emergency character which would allow it to last for five years.
As has been customary with other emergency legislation, it is expected that
the land tax will be renewed at the end of each five-year period.
Initially, the tax would be at a flat rate of up to 2% on all land with a
fiscal value above the exemption level, but progressivity would be
introduced as composite ownership registers are improved. All 23 Argentine
provinces have cadastres and impose land taxes, but there is a range of
methodologies used to calculate fiscal values, which causes inconsistencies
in the tax burden on comparable land. Fiscal values of rural land parcels
throughout Argentina would, therefore, be adjusted by indices specific to
each taxation zone in order to more closely reflect realistic and
comparable unimproved land values for each parcel.  This adjustment would
rely on records of recent land sale prices and assessments by informed
public  and  private  sector  entities  (e.g.,  bankers,  sales  agents,
agricultural consultants and extension officers).  The process would take
from four to six months (Annex V), and would provide the basis for the
imposition of a land tax able to generate about US$250 million annually
after passage of the required law and regulations.  This would represent
the first of two phases of implementation of the federal land tax program.
The Government has furnished the Bank a program for the preparation and
implementation of the land tax schedule, which defines (i) federal and
provincial institutional arrangements; (ii) studies, activities, equipment
and personnel required; (iii) costs, funding sources and arrangements; and
(iv) the schedule for the implementation of the land tax in accordance with
the draft legislation.
52.          Although this country-wide adjustment would put fiscal land
values on a comparable basis, some inconsistencies would continue to exist
because of erroneous fiscal values of individual parcels that have
developed due to peculiarities in local adjustment processes.  Therefore,
for the more productive agricultural zones and provinces, a more refined
fiscal value system which would provide new indices for each land parcel
would be established.   It would continue to be based on unimproved land
market values, but individual land assessments could be reduced to a poten-
tial land productivity value, should the latter be less than the market
value assessment (Annex V).  This would be accomplished before imposition
of the second phase of the program, in which it has been estimated that



- 16 -
over US$500 million p.a. would be generated initially (including the
revenues previously collected by the flat rate tax). Areas not subject to
this more refined valuation system would be those that are not as
productive, not as valuable, make a minor contribution to current export
taxes and, consequently, could not be expected to contribute substantially
to the federal land tax.  In the medium term, they would be taxed at a
relatively low rate in accordance with their lower values based on the
revised unimproved market value system.
53.         Institutional Arrangements and Taxation Studies.  An Executive
Committee (EC), chaired by the Secretary of SAG with representatives of the
Secretaries of Finance and the Interior, will be formed, as a condition of
loan effectiveness, to oversee the preparation and initiation of the
federal land  tax,  and  the sectoral  tax  studies.    This  also  includes
participation from the Consejo Federal de Inversiones (representing
provincial interests). In each province, advisory committees consisting of
the heads of the proviacial cadastral, tax collection and computer centers
units will be formed to work with the EC. Considerable cadastral expertise
has been built up in Argentina since the 1940s, and the methodology to be
used in the program is already well established in some provinces.   The
Committee will also be supported by a working group on overall sectoral tax
policy. A project preparation facility (PPF) advance of US$1 million has
been granted to initiate preparation activities.
54.        The proposed loan would finance the land tax preparation-impie-
mentation program to end-1987, which would amount to US$7 million in loan
funds. The priority activities of the EC would be as follows: (a) analysis
of the existing cadastral situation in each province, and definition of the
requirements for implementing the first and second stages of the land tax
program, including funding arrangements for both federal and provincial
activities; (b) implementation of the survey to develop adjustment indices
for each taxation zone and derivation of fiscal land values based on the
revised unimproved land values; (c) historical analysis of the sources of
provincial revenues, including fiscal transfers from the Federal Treasury
and the role of land taxes in provincial collections, followed by analyt-
ical work on provincial-central government tax sharing proposals; and (d)
simulation of total fiscal revenue effects of various tax levels and fiscal
values based on typical farm systems for each taxation zone.   The above
activities would be necessary for the implementation of the first phase of
the federal land tax program.
55.        The EC would also, at the same time, initiate a series of taxa-
tion studies required for the full implementation of the land tax proposal
and would have completed these by end-1987: (a) additional work on agl.-
economic, agroecological, land registration and mapping aspects required
for defining zones of similar agricultural potential and improving the
cadastral base in the more productive agricultural areas; and (b) institu-
tion of a system for monitoring the investment-production environment in
the sector to provide information relevant to sectoral taxation policies
(this would draw on the continuous analysis of agroeconomic factors
necessary to adjust land productivity values). The sectoral taxation work-



- 17 -
ing group would analyze the existing tax burden on the agricultural sector,
recommend the proportion of the total tax burden which the sector should
carry and analyze the fiscal alternatives to the export tax.
56.          Import Regulations and Tariffs.   The Government has already
rescinded   the  temporary increase  in import  tariffs  imposed  in June
1985 with respect to fertilizers.   It has agreed, as a condition of the
second tranche of the proposed loan, to rescind the temporary import tariff
increase affecting herbicides and other agricultural chemical inputs.
Moreover, the existing prohibition on the import of tractors and any
agricultural machinery would be replaced with an import 'subject to prior
review and approval' classification (as a condition of effectiveness) and
subsequently (for the second tranche) automatic entry' classification.
This would racilitate and practically make automatic the importation of
appropriate agricultural equipment.  In addition, a proposed Trade Policy
Loan (under preparation) would, inter alia and in a broader context,
support a program of phasing out quantitative import restrictions and
rationalization of tariff levels, in addition to reorienting export
policies to provide automatic access to incentives and foreign exchange to
export industries, and improving the administrative mechanisms of trade
management.
57.         Complemnentary Sectoral Studies and Institutional Support.  In
addition to the resource transfer under the proposed loan in support of the
Government's sectoral policy changes and the direct financial support for
the land tax and sectoral taxation studies and activities, a number of com-
plementary studies and related institutional development components would
be financed.   They are in consonance with the medium-term development
strategy set forth in PRONAGRO (para. 37), and would improve the Govern-
ment's ability to manage some of the sectoral changes anticipated under the
tax reform program.   The studies pertain to (a) marketing and production
strategy, and long-term transport and storage requirements for agricultural
products, principally grains; (b) technical and economic feasibility of
supplementary  tubewell  irrigation  in  the  maize  production  region;
(c) structural changes in the livestock industry associated with intensi-
fication of crop production in the humid Pampa; (d) development and promo-
tion of agricultural and agroindustrial exports for the non-Pampa areas;
and (e) evaluation of the existing organization of the JNG, definition of
necessary improvements and elaboration of legal instruments necessary to
effect these changes. Both the JNC and the JNG would receive institutional
support under the proposed loan to improve their market information collec-
tion, analysis and dissemination systems.
58.        The total cost of these studies and programs would be approxi-
mately US$2.18 million, of which about US$180,000 would be local
counterpart funding (Annex VI).   Loan funds for these studies would be
administered through the UNDP. The aforementioned US$1 million PPF advance
(para. 53), to be repaid with funds from this loan, would also cover eight
man-months of consulting time to prepare the terms of reference for the
studies (a) to (d) noted in para. 57.



- 18 -
D. Loan Features and Oneration
59.           An agricultural sector loan of US$350 million is proposed,
including the financing of complementary studies and institutional
development  amounting  to US$9  million.    The  loan would  support  the
Government's efforts to depart from its reliance on easily-collectible but
production-negative export taxes for agricultural sector taxation, and to
introduce an effective federal land tax.  Loan proceeds totalling US$341
million would finance general imports and would be released in two equal
tranches following compliance with the conditions for their release,
defined below.
60.       The first tranche of US$170.5  million, projected to be disbursed
before June 30, 1986, would be released upon effectiveness of the loan,
which is subject to receipt of evidence of: (a) presentation to Congress of
draft legislation for the introduction of a federal land tax; (b)
establishment of the Executive Committee (para. 53); (c) redesignation of
tractors and agricultural machinery to the -prior approval- classification
for imported goods; and (d) Government's execution of subsidiary agreements
with the JNC and JNG for the complementary studies and institutional
support activities. Disbursement under the loan component for studies and
institutional support would be contingent on the presentation of terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank for the five complementary sectoral
studies and two institutional support components (para. 57), and the agri-
cultural sector tax burden study (para. 48) and execution of a project
agreement between the Government and UNDP, satisfactory to the Bank, which
will define the role and responsibilities of the UNDP and the Argentine
ministries and agencies involved in the execution of these components.
61.       The second and final tranche of US$170.5 million, projected to be
disbursed in January 1987, would be released after receipt of evidence of:
(a) the reduction of the export tax on agricultural commodities to a level
not to exceed 70% of the rates in force on May 1, 1985 or other such levels
as may be jointly agreed; (b) the Government having put into effect fiscal
measures sufficient to compensate for any revenue losses resulting from the
export tax reduction without increasing the overall tax burden of the
agricultural sector as  compared to its May  1,  1985 level;   (c) the
designation of tractors and agricultural machinery to the -automatic entry-
classification for imported goods; and (d) the Government having made
satisfactory  progress  in  the  execution  of  the  agreed   land  tax
implementation schedule (para. 51), including a simulation of the fiscal
revenue effects (federal and provincial) of the land tax rates included in
the land tax program, and in all studies being financed under the loan.
62.        Loan Disbursement.  A total of US$341 million of the sector loan
would be disbursed within 12 months of loan effectiveness against general
imports, excluding specific items. This is appropriate because: (a) there
are currently no restrictions on the acquisition of foreign exchange for
imports of agricultural inputs; and (b) the limited volume of eligible
agricultural imports would not allow quick drawdowns of each tranche.
63.        Imports to be financed under the sector loan would be made by
public entities and a large number of private sector importers. Contracts
for the procurement of goods to cost the equivalent of US$5.0 million or
more shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in



- 19 -
accordance with Bank guideliness. Contracts under that equivalent would be
procured through the normal procurement procedures of the importing
entity. Disbursements for these imports would be subject to the Bank's
guidelines and restrictions.    The  taxation  and  complementary  sectoral
studies administered through UNDP would be disbursed against a blanket
withdrawal application which would allow monthly advances to be justified
and  replenished  against  documentation  for  actual  expenditures.    All
disbursements, except for those administered by UNDP, would be made against
a  statement  of  expenditures.    Procurement  of  goods  and  hiring  of
consultants under the loan portion administered by UNDP would be made under
Bank guidelines.  The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed as
follows:    100%  of  foreign  expenditures  for  general  imports,  total
expenditures administered through UNDP, and 100% of amounts due for
repayment of the PPF advance.
64.       Loan Channeling.  The Argentine Republic would be the Borrower of
the proposed loan, but the proceeds of the loan will be made available to
and administered by the Central Bank (BCRA), except for the technical
assistance component which would be transferred to the relevant agencies.
BCRA will maintain separate accounts to record and monitor loan disburse-
ments and repayments.   All records and accounts related to expenditures
financed under the proposed loan, including those for statement of expendi-
tures and the Special Account would be audited each fiscal year in accord-
ance with sound auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank.
65.       Special Account.  In order to facilitate disbursements, a special
account in US dollars with an initial deposit of US$50 million would be
established in the BCRA. The initial deposit would be made after the con-
ditions for the release of the fiist tranche of the US$170.5 million have
been met.
E. Benefits and Risk
66.       Benefits.  Taxation reforms proposed are expected to yield higher
rates of capital accumulation and greater use of yield-augmenting inputs
brought about by improved prospects for profits and enhanced producer con-
fidence.   To estimate likely increased production and exports, an econo-
metric model was employed. The model concentrated on the five major export
crops (wheat, maize, sorghum, soybeans and sunflower), which are estimated
to have generated about 80% of the 1985 agricultural export tax revenues.
The model predicts area planted to each crop in accordance with various
price scenarios; the Bank's international commodity price projections were
used for calculating future farm product prices and fertilizer costs.
Projected beef prices were included because of their interactive effect
with some of the crops analyzed, and a variable capturing producer response
to risk was also incorporated.   Yields per crop were based on estimated
farmer adoption of technical packages in accordance with incremental
benefit/cost ratios associated with use of these packages.   Therefore,
planted area, harvested area, export surplus, export revenue, and export
taxes under various export tax rate scenarios were derived from the model.
67.       The short- and medium-term impact of various export tax scenarios
on export revenues and associated income transfer from consumers to produ-
cers is described in Annex VII.  Under the programmed reduction in export



- 20 -
taxes to 50Z of the May 1985 levels by 1988, the model forecasts an
incremental 5.4 million tons of the five commodities produced and an
incremental 3.9 million tons exported annually by 1990 compared to the
level that would prevail in case the export tax would remain unchanged.
Such increases in exports would be essential for the projections mentioned
in para. 18 to materialize.  With the exception of sorghum exports, both
production and exports of all major commodities are projected to increase
as export tax rates are reduced.  These projections take into account the
projected decline in world market price through 1990 for the commodities
concerned.   The incremental net foreign exchange earnings from the five
commodities (after deducting additional foreign exchange costs incurred in
producing incremental exports) under the programmed export tax levels would
be about US$1.2 billion per annum by 1990 compared to the earnings at the
higher tax rates.  With the export tax rates held at 70% of the May 1985
levels, the incremental net foreign exchange earnings would be about US$800
million.   Consequently, the positive effects of the export tax abatements
would be substantial.
68.        The reduction in export taxes would reduce the implicit subsidy
from producers to consumers. However, as only about 27% of the five major
crop commodities are consumed locally, the total income transfer from
consumers to producers  is limited.   Cereals and their by-products and
edible oils, for which significant price changes would occur under the
export tax reduction program, constitute only about 7% of the CPI in the
lowest income group; meat prices, which make up about 13% of the CPI in
this income group, would incur little change due to their relatively low
existing tax rates. The increase in consumer expenditures brought about by
the reduction of export taxes would be about 1% for the highest income
group and about 2% for lowest income group.
69.         Risks.   Implementation of the Government's agricultural policy
adjustment program and Bank loan are not without risks. The Government may
not succeed in stabilizing the economy. This would inhibit implementation
of the policy reforms and prevent the anticipated production response. Key
elements of the program are: (a) a permanent reduction in the fiscal
deficit; (b) elimination of monetary creation by the Central Bank; and
(c) the maintenance of an adequate exchange rate.  There may be slippages
in any of the Government's targets which could potentially jeopardize the
sectoral development program.  The current stabilization program, however,
is considered appropriate to address current economic difficulties and
improve the investment climate in the short-term.   It has been successful
in stabilizing the economy so far.
70.         Export taxes have been a politically expedient instrument to
generate fiscal revenue. However, once the federal land tax is introduced,
the reinstatement of major export taxes after their reduction under the
policy reform program is not expected because: (a) the Government states in
the introduction of the draft land tax law that the land tax is intended as
a substitute for export taxes. Thus, there will have been a structural
change in the tax system; and (b) there would be much political opposition
to increased export taxes after suitable means of maintaining the fiscal
balance  at  satisfactory  levels  have  been  found.    In  addition,  the
Government is in the process of undertaking a tax reform to seek fair and
specific means of maintaining the fiscal deficit at levels consistent with
price stability.   These risks are also expected to be reduced because of
conditions included in the stand-by agreement with the IHF and by Bank
monitoring in the context of the loan.



- 21 -
71.        Although Argentina has a history of pervasive tax evasion, the
collection of the proposed land tax is not expected to be a significant
problem, since the mechanisms for collecting the land tax exist at the
provincial level and will be utilized to collect the new tax. In addition,
means to address the potential payment delinquency problem would be
addressed in regulations supporting the legislation; seminars and training
sessions on the administration of tax collection are supported in the
preparation  activities  under  the  proposed  loan;  and,  furthermore,
improvements in tax administration are addressed in the Bank's proposed
Technical Assistance Loan.
72.       Anticipated increased exports (ranging from 1.5% to 2.5% of the
world market for the commodities concerned) are not expected to signifi-
cantly influence projected world commodity prices, given the current world
market structure. In the event that international commodity prices decline
even further than anticipated, Argentina should be able to continue to com-
pete and find suitable markets for its products because of its competitive
production advantage. Moreover, comprehensive quantitative analyses demon-
strate that the profitability in agriculture would be increased suffi-
ciently by the export tax reduction to promote an output response of the
expected magnitude.
F. Monitoring and Reporting
73.        The Bank would monitor the progress in execution of agricultural
sector policies through:  (a) compliance with specific agreements on trade
and fiscal reforms included in this loan; and (b) regular supervision and
exchange of views with the Government on policies to increase agricultural
output and exports.   It is envisaged that the Bank's monitoring will
incorporate the IMF's view on progress with respect to maintenance of
export competitiveness.   The federal land tax implementation studies and
activities, and the complementary sectoral studies and institutional
support component, would be monitored in regular Bank supervision missions
and through periodic reports. These reports would be submitted to the Bank
by the Government in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Special reports on progress in the land tax preparation study would be sub-
mitted to the Bank prior to the release of the second tranche.  No later
than six months after the closing date of the Loan, the Borrower would sub-
mit to the Bank a report on the execution of the Loan.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
74.         I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 14, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
T A b L                                       ANNEXI
-_-AL                                 J  TAY1T                    Page 1 of 6
WiT                      (MIT "VWATUU  L.T. 
I3ecLk     197O. "UTArla            LAT. AIShCA & CAlt            tuDm
ADJUSTED DOLUIZNT tATIOS
PIDUS    TOTAL                    96.0       lub.0      L19.0               106.7                    101.9
KALE                   98.0       106.0       120.0              too.5                    106.2
FVALS                  9.a        107.0       119.0              1014.6                    97.5
SECONDAIDt TOTAL                  23.0        43.0        59.0              44.2                      57.5
mgL                    23.0        42.0       5%.a                4L.7                     64.9
FEMALE                 24.0        48.0        63.0               ".9                      50.0
VOCAITONAL CE or SE mNDuI)          50.3        58.'        61.3               13.3                     21.0
PUPIL-TZACHR RAMO
PRINAR                            22.0        19.0        20.0              29.9                      25.1
SEWNDAU                            7.0         7.0         7.0 f             16.7                     19.1
VASS&WZ& CAESITNGUSAND POP          23.0        bO.1           .                b6.0                    54.2
RADIO *CEIVUISITIOJSD POP          169.8       375.6       727.1             328.3                     17U.7
TV SEtKIVESSITIIOUSND POP           21.6       146.1       202.3              112.4                    14I.3
SPAMR  ("DAn.  eIUI*
INrARSTr) C13W1.ATION
PER TUOUSAID POPULATION           154.5       177.2        114.7            81.1                      97.0
CZNu  ANNUAL A?TTIUDANCECAPTTA,      7.0         2.2         1.s                2.4                      2.7
LAn Yom
lOAL LA0N  FoRCE CTHOD)          11133.0    12700.0    14589.0
P34*IZ Cmgrr)                     21.4        24.7        27.1              23.6                      36.3
AcU uLTu  CPtERQNT)               20.0        16.4        13.1 Id            31.4                     4C.8
INDUSTRY (PUcEN)                  35.9        32.1        34.0 7            24.3                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCM?)
TOTAL                             54.0        53.0        &7.7               33.5                     43.1
mUU                               84.0        41.0        75.0 Id            51.3                     55.1
73N1LZ                            23.0        27.0        27.0 Id            15.9                     31.4
EClQaC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.7         0.7         1.0                1.3                      0.9
7UICONT Q 11: X1Z
M1RCUT OF PRIATE ZNC07E
RECEIVED aU
HIGHCST SX OF HOusIUOLDS          27.5         ..
h1IST 20X07 HOF IIHOLDS           50.9        50.3
LOWZST 202 OF IIOUSENOLDS          o.9         4.4
10CST 401 or HOuSEnODS           16.6        14.1
POVET T         GODI
ESThIATED ABSOLUTE P0911T? INCUE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
r:VO.N..                                                   ,.              25s.3
RUAl                               ..          ..         ..               185.3                       .
ESTDIATED RELATIVE P0NZL1 TMO
LEL CUSS Ptt CAPITA)
53315                              ..          ..          ..               519.8
RRAL                                     3. ..                             359.7*
SYDIATID POP. 61LOI ABSOLUTE
POVERTY iNCm1 LEVL CZ)
DltW                               ..          ..
RUAML                              ..          ..
NoT AVAILALEZ
IDT APPLICAIE.
N0 TE S
a  The grlp aeroP    for eaeb inndictor are popuLation-vigted ariti_etic mans.  Coveral of countlers
inn5 the irdicacoze dpende ao avaiLability of data and .e not uniform.
lb  Unlaaa otheiee note4 "Data for 1960" refer to az year besen 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 197Cr between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Meet RAcet letimte  boteen 1981 and 1963.
/e  1977;  d 1980; /a 1962;  Af 1979.
JUng. 1985



- 23 -                                         ANNEI
T AB6 L E 3                                       Pae 2 of 6
AMUENTIMA              - SUCIA l.INuICATutb DATA NUIKET
ARGEWIIHA                             MFLKkN   Gurs (IEIGUTLD AV1ERAIS) /a
IEST                     trIST  ECUihT StL%ATt) lb
RlCENT           1'LOvL  fWEM            'ItObLf I1CG
19bU,0     197u1k. EbTUIATILI      LA. AtRICA 4 L                LULtuPe
AMA CTUSB SD. IN)
TOTAL                              2708.9      Zloo.9      27b.9.
GRICULTUIL                        3740.2      1777.0      1788.0
GiPR  CAPITA (558)                       .           ..      z07u.0              L75.9                    2144.3
UIUT  wInwATWu Mg CnrIA
CKILoGSAUU Of OIL EQUIVALENT)      8N0.0       1211.0     341l.0              993.6                    1119.d
nUnATWu AM VITLs mTASrnCS
POPULATION.91[-YFAR (THOUSANDS)  20616.0    23962.0    29027.0                    ,
UILAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)        71.6        78.4       81.                o7.7                      47.5
POPUtATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATtON IN YEAR 2000 (KILL)      ..          ..
STATIONA   POPUATION (NLL)          ..          ..         54.0
POPULATION MOIENTUM                 ..          ..          1.5
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 't.                         7.5        5.7         10.7               4S.0                     64.7
PER SO. e. AGRI. LAND              I."         13.5        16.3              91.l                     3b6.7
POPULATION AGE STEUCTULE CX)
0-14 YRS                          3u.7        2Y.1        3.6                35.5                     31.2
15-64 YnS                         61.6        61.0        61.1               57.1                      01.5
b5 AMU ABOVE                        5.5         1.1         5.2                4.Z                      7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
ro:AL                               1.8         I.S         1.6                2.4                      1.6
URBAN                               1.0         2.1         2.1                3.6                      3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOS)          23.0       2Z.9         24.3               30.9                     2j.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (CUR r230US)         8.7         9.4         9.0                5.0                      8.9
GRIOSS REPRODUCTION RATE              1.5         1.5         1.0                2.0                      1.5
FANIILY PLAISING
ACCIPTORS. ANNUAL (THOU1S)          ..
USERS (2 OF IARRIED WOMEN)          ..3 ..                  ..                 5.3                      ..
FOOD AM lmnTnsr
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-LOO)                        90.0       101.0       116.0             1U9.6                     1U9.1
PF CAPITA SUPPLY or
CALORIES (2 OF REQUITENTS)        12.0       I:S.o       121.0              113.2                    131.5
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER Dat)          130.0       107.0       106.0              69.'                      92.'
OF 14ICN ANIMAL A8 PULSE         06.0       b6.0         69.0 /c            34.2                     34.5
CHILD (AAMS 1-4) DEATh RATE           *.5         3.2         1.0                *.8                      6.7
-TH
LIFE EXPECT. AT  XdlTH (YEARS)       b5.1        06.0        @9.5                4.0                     a7.2
INFArT nWRT. RATE (PUR THO5)        60.0         53.0       36.0               59.7                      53.3
ACCESS TO SAFE VATEt (SPOP)
TOTAL                             47.3         Sb.0        57.U Id           65.3                      7U.Z
JRRAN                              58.9        69.0        65.0 Id           76.5                      tl9.4
RURAL                               9.6        12.0        17.0 7d            44.2                      57.4
ACCESS TO EXCR!TA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              62.0        85.0        79.0 Id            5b.3                      59.6
URBAN                               ..         87.0        59.0 7T           73.4                      65.9
RVRAL                               ..         79.0        32.0 Id            25.5                     67.*
POPULATION -ER PHtSICLA            740.0       520.0      430.0 Ic          I909.7                    1070.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             760.0 le   590.0                          408.2                     769.5
POP. PP. HOSPITAL SED
TLTAL                             160.0       150.0         ..               362.U                    325.3
URBAN                             190.0 Ie   200.0          ..               422.0                    201.9
RAL                             R690.0 /   10I0.0           .               27tU.7                   4519.1
AD!ISSIONS PER HOSPITAL MED           ..          ..          .2 7 .5                                    20.0
S7IN
AVERAGE SIZE OF tOUtEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.7         S.e
URBN                                3.5         ..
RURAL                               6.3         ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROOI
rorAL                               1.4         1.6
URBAN                               1.3        .-
RURAL                               3 _..
PERCENTrAE OF WELLINGS WITN FLECT.
TOTAL                             tb.2         7b.U        87.0 /d
URBAN                              t.7          ..
RURAL                              16.6         ..



-24 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINllIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although the data au drwn from scumn genersil judgd the mos authoninuve and reliabk. it should iso be noted that they may not be mntcrnuomily
comparable bemuse of the lack of tandadized definitions and concepts used by dilarent countnes in collecting the dtai. The dot are, nonetheks usfcul to
descnbe orden of magitude indicate trends. and chanacterz certan major difference between countris.
The refrce groups are u ) the suae country group of the subijct country and (21 a couniry group with somewhat higher average income than the counUry
group of the subject country (escept for-High Incmem Oil Exporten group wbem-M,ddk Income North Afnic and Middl East' schosen because of sutnger
soco.cultural affinit  In the refercnce group da  thie averg  ar populauon waghted anthmaetic mm for each iimctor and shown only when majority
of thecountnes in a group h data for tbht ndicator Sinc the covergeg ofcountresang the indiatondepeds on the awielabity ofdai and is not uniforn.
caution must beezercised in rlung avrages of on  diator to nother These averagesare only usefiul i companag the alue of one ndictr at a im among
the country and reerence groups
AREA (thousand sq.km j                                            Crude Birth Rate (per thousandj-Number of live births in the year
Totra-Total surface area comprising land drea and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crud Deat Rate (per rthousand-Number of deaths in the year
Agrkiltmra-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 970. and 1983 data.
perTnanentv fror crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reproduction Rate- Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNF PER CAPITA IlJSS)-GNP per capita estimateb at turrcnt         in 1960. 1970. and 1981
rnarket pnces. calculated by same consersion method .i 1,.44      Family Pfuaniug--.cceptwn. Annual (thoadsj -Annual num-
Santk Aias (1981-83 bass  1983 data.                            . ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auSpies of national
ENERGY CONSUMPiION  PER CAPITA--Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial pnimarn energy (coal and lignite.        family Pfaaqi'g-Users (percent ofmarrkid swamn-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tagr of married women of child-beanng age who are practicing or
incity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any .orm of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countnes contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
Total Poplation. Mid-Year (thousaadsi-As oIJuly 1. 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NITRMON
and 1983 data.
Index of FoeedProduction Per Capita (1969-71 = 100t  Index of per
LWnpulOpulation 4oercetlftdC6lilolstauhl) Rant'     urhantcopanal  capitd annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definnitins o urban are3 may aiffect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Fod commodities
ability of data among coumrtne. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.        include prinmar  commodities leg  suparcane instcad of sugar)
Popuarion Projetmios                                              which are edible and contain nutnents (e.g. coffee and tea are
POUpmatmon in year 0MX0-The projection of population for 2000.    excludedk: they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
rnade for each economy separatelv Starting with information on    vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population bv age and sex. fiertility rates. mortalitv rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national averagc producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Capita Supply ofCalories (percent ofreqairemeits)-Comput-
Sfarronarr population--Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per captta per day Available supplies compnse domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
I net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food processmrn. and losses in distnbution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero- The stationary population  estimated b1 FAO based on phyv'ologwcal needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected character.stics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution ol population. and al!owing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                        waste at household level. 19hl. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supplr of Protein (grms per dyJ-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capi ta net iupplt of food per dav Net suppiv of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above Requirement1 for all countnes established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a populatton in the  ear i is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary popuiation to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Poptulatk Density                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer 1100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarec) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Protein Supply From Anima and Poke-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses In grams per day. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Population Age Strucre (percesrj-Children 10-14 years). work-     Chid (ages I-f Death Rate (per thousand)- -Number ofdeaths of
ingagell5-64 years). and retired 465 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 *ears per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                  group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percentj-4oeaL--Annual growth rates of    from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83       HEALTH
Pop.lation Growrh Rate (percentj-narhan--Annual growth rates      Life Expectway at Birth (yearsn-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNME I
- 25 -                                       Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth wme to stay the sne throughout its life;  Pup-treacher Ratio  primay, and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                      roiled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Iat M ersy Root (par trhe d-Number of infants who die    teadches in the corresponding kvds.
before raching one year of age per tbousnd live births in a given
year  1960, 1970 and 1983 data,                               CONSUMPTION
Aerm to Soft IUV  (poLn  ofpfl-d--t4  wilin, ed               Phswegr Cus (Par tskeM d pepalasenj-Passenger can coin-
nwe-Number or people (totaL urbaL and nuaal) with reasonable  priw motor cars seating less than eight pemons: excludes ambul-
sacce  to safe water supply (include treated  urface waters or  anceL hbau' and military vehicks.
untrted but uncontanind water such a that from protected      J        Receivr  (par teamdIhs5 )-Al types of receivers
boreholes sprng and sanitary wels)s prntags of their iefpc-   for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
(ave populationL In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed reacivers in countries and in years when
located not mom than 200 metem from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within resonable access of that hous. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
houselbold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Recers (par thtawedpVpaisiij-TV receive for broadcast
in retching the family's water ne                             to gmeal public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
Am os te Excrett Dispeuul (purees tq<f pau ed..j ai, when,    receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
ad rural-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  in ect.
excreta disposal as percentages of their rspective populations.  NP     Cwaim (per thawed wpubitie.J-Sbows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general intenist newspaper. defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to  coding general  ws.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" ir it appears a; least four times a week.
Popuarion par Physician-4tpulation divided by number of prac-  CaeIU  Am_ul AtndAce per Capita per Yar-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
P     :ftpld  par Nusin Perso-Population divided by number of  drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LAIOR FORCE
li_       H       aledt , wl  ad_   Population                   . Larme  (-Economically active persons. in-
oal, urban, and rual) divided  by their resctive number of    cludg zned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
(tosptal. urbedsavailabknin.publ and ruytheir reswive and alied  students. etc.. covering population or all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and private. generialdspWie  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1933 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishnents
permanently staffed by at last one physician. Establishments prov-    Fliiai (percenr)-}Female labor form as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricabr (perceasr-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistnt nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                        Iasry (parcent)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissios per Hospiral Red-Total number of adnissions to or   facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of toral labor
discharges from hospiutas divided by the number of beds.      fore: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Arscie  Ros (percenrD-osl ae. amdfeaurParticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
Averae Sze of Hawehed (perso  per Iwoe     i)-weal. whuam     as percentages of total, male and female popultion of all ags
andrwd-A household consists  of a group of individuals who share  respectively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarers and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  partcipation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
m ay not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long timc trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
AeraWe Number of Persoes par Roe_-toe, whe, and rural-        Ecomendi Dependency Rude-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. rsccively. Dwelings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied pans.                 INCOME DISTRIBtJTION
Percenage of Deuigs wis Ekerriciy--etal, urhe.  and rura-     Percetage of Total Dispoabe lnme (bathr i cash ad kindj-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accrui ng to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted d Eiroi   Raios                                      The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prinarn school - total. male and femal--Gross toral. male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estwd AeseAhsoe Poewry Income  Level ((1  per capita )-wban
respective prunary school-age populations. While many counties  and ruraJ-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differnces in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esmted Retive Poverty 1 Incme Levd (USS per captea j-whm
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 perent since some  ad rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondarn shool - tota. mae and female-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Esainwed Popuon Bdeow Ahslte Poverty Icome Levd (per-
mary instruciont provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  cent)p-when ad rual- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
mice cournes are generally excduded.
Vocational Enrobieni (permnt of seconryj-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
dons include technical. industiaL or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departnents of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



-26 -                                                A
la s   a f 6
EONIC KE1317 351
OCIIL          Ang. er1   buLth lai                                       Js Pweet d  121
Nati.nAl occmts
lye           2t70l4 195135               nu IM 11371                 1931     193      lEi
EIilllu  of  931I12                        IPw.tal                                         7
Sren lstLr Prdict                          707"                3.9      1.      -1.2    -1.6      3.2             99.12  200.001   10.5b
Iwc  .4 Traid Effect                           0                                                                   0e       0.00     0.56
IriKs lgeetIc tam                          1079                4.1      1.7    -2.5    -L3         3.L           101.00   100.1   100.00
lwto d lei  aid IF5                       61591               1.      33.3   -27.1     -L2       3               15.4      9.32    B.41
Experts dl _ki   id 55                      93                 0.7    16.1       4.2    41.        Lb             IL.     13.43L   ILO
Ewrt si*sstad by Ter  of Trae               93                 3.2    12.0      -.      -7.0      Li               3.9    13.41   13.32
1 ,wce Gap                                 -296                                                                    2.LO    -4.12   -5.46
bcu.trn                                    57696               4.5      1.5    -3.4     -1.9      2.a             Q39   01.1        55.2
Inetenet                                   1031                1.9      4.4    -IL      -.2       L4              1L.1    14.2       9.30
_etiac Sinp                                1305                2.5      2.3      1.      0.0      5.5             17.41    10.45    14.74
Blatiel Sawlp                               7U0                3.0    2L        -7.1    -5.3      LA              1.%    10.113    7.21
1E13I0   E  WE                              12911    193      3933 111    4     25       1911      9 I29I          Ih pwint of TiUt
fiillii df Ewrnmt IS ImIrwe
lots I(c.I.l.                              9430    537       43       46       40?1    411      7015             1100    310.0    10.0L
Cipatal  iDe                              205       95       769      MD       414      s        11.             21.3     17.1   1I.2
Iitwiate bob                              473       M20     34    351    354          31          1              50.1     6.l2    75I
etrJl F Prdts                             1011      672      453      507      432      23       332             10.7      0.l   I7
C-Miptli e hd                              232      39       29       239      la      l3s       179             17.3      4.6      4.0
:E-uts f.3 .b.l                             3t        77      16       siol7    313      773    122352            15.0   100.0   100.0
Priavy  rites                             U05    4U11    33          6939    6714    5945       33               7.         .7     .LS
N11fcturid  S                             2591    2106    131t   319          IM2     1157  20  3D               25.7      9.3   IS7
bwibuir  Trade lidc                                            13970 * 1001
Ewprt Price I_.                          319.4   27.0   24.9  254.7   Z3.6   219.5   212.5
luwt tricm Iad                           219.3   292.2   273.9   273.    24.0   215.9   3M4.9
1w., if Trade  1I1                        101.7    92.4      3.3    93.0    ILI    74.3    70.
141E  AMIVK3  1TIllimi                                   Iof  at 1933 Prices I EtcF_p Rae                               li  I d 1Opp
tpiclte                                     925      1377    1754    1In       15                                  12.3    15.2    I5.5
lhtry                                      2a       23715   299        2 2     317                                 35.3    35.9 3DJL
-wvics                                     37147      W      MMl    3517   35                                      53.9     43.      5t3l
up                                         n7235   W7        779   72W         M37                                110.0    10.0  I2l0.0
SLI FIRM                                             lwrceta  of on51
MCuelhiidA Pitlac hi.)l
cre.   hcitC                                34.7    31.6    31.7    3LS        *.
tet E        _pmdtts                        41.7    40.3      30.0    43.       i.e
huge                                        -7.0    -9.2      -.       -7.3    i.e.
Isuehs                                       9.3      7.3      LS      LI      *.
Hep dhficite                               -24.3   -17.0   -24.3   -14.1    am.
Evi, w3II n   mm                t           ilil    of i ll - tblmlig Fid Pw2iad
_i, a   _e  am,                              U.4    I3.    293.6  3193.4        M..
bidt ts heIc  bir                           20.L    34.8   222.3    9I           ..
ergit to reb  rtwe h                        2L2       3.9   293.   336          i.a.
NM   a iad hiyv 
I if W                                29.23   25.41   223    2L2t         .
Udacale Price la
97I0  3.3                                439    35131   7154  430693  35
h_i wcitap imp_ ie;
d.     Se lhim                             335.    25.3       1.9   57.6   664.6    30.0
k    i blt b hehic  hcW                    215.7   22L2    520.1 3I            i.e.    i.&.
khm Dit ts Prlwet bctr                     167.5   210.4    3.LI   53LI          .       ..
1 F m M CTI92IY                            93       421       UWa        Pe r   irm
Oplcaltcu                                   1194     17.1    9037
Iestr,                                               32U.5    99153
lum.                                        3243    46.4   IN"
_ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ 63 .. ,3f 9   



-27 -                                            ANC I
raga 6 of 6
Estimate  Prajected
199      1979     190      1991     192     19B3     1994     1995      1996     9S10
UNIKE OF PaNETS
Experts incl. WIS)                         7714     %01    10715    11545    9525        9512  t Z        10200     9637    14510
Iepmts lied. WI)                           -5249    -5253    14024  -12537   -7195   -4811    -39    -6120    -6             -9572
R_ece  alnce                                2466      348   -3259       -92      2330     2931     3217     4072     2B40      4939
Net Factor Service IKcm                     -61      -20    -1531    -3700   -4719   -5401    -5712   -5341    -5150    -5030
Net Carrent Tranfs                            49       35        23      -22       32       LI        3        6        12        9
Bduce - Cwrrat kccut                        1833     -7    -4767    -4714    -2357   -2461    -2492    -1263    -22911    -9
irect Invetmt                                274      265      799       927      257      193      269      915      410       743
llet Piblic tLT Ewrouiug                    -332      923      2511    7091      5192     1927     4307     2120      3121    -262
lNt PRivate ItT lErraing                    L239     I925       89      1469     2219      683    -3450    -112    -1527    -120
lime of 2f heorces                                                                        1173        0     1007       367    -470
DSrt Turn Capita! Trusactieus              -1215     1635   -1790    -093    -5446    -f5          1670     -27       -229      177
Capital Transactians ae.i                     I"      431      -437    -484      -506     -326     -100      731       156      150
Change ini Rrwn  - a increa)               -299    -442        2796     3107      651     -244     -129    -1041        0      -127
6RlT -ND LIou  CIEIIT2EITS
Public KILT Loas                            2419     3362      237      3703     1012     1955      620     4300
IEE                                        165      306       27       36t      100        0      100        0
OWt   Neltilateral                         231      329        44      321      109        2      520      100
BIlateral                                   91       52       115        9       42       44        0        0
Splirs                                     m        595      216      1637     123        30        0        0
Financial Inutatutitams                   1560     2091      2415     1361      49      1779        0     4200
8DT 10 DET SERVICE
Total Idt Oust-ding and Disbursd 11        12496    19034    27162    35671    43243    46005    47921    49136
Public Wt 21                                9357    9960    14459    20024    29342    33176    37629    39748
Private Debt                                4139     9074    12703    15647    14901    12929    20193      9391
Internt Paymts (total) 3/                   120      1400     2175     3950      4926     5423     5537     5161
epayments a HILT 4/                         2095     2946      2593     3045     5045     6095     2765     2534
Total )it Svice                             3345     4246      4768    6B95    9971    11518       9302     7695
DIR    Dl EIPIPT EIDE  (1)
Toal Dhbt Srice                             43.4     44.2      44.3     59.7   104.7    121.1      84.2    75.4
litrnt Srvice                               16.2    14.6      20.2     33.3      51.7     57.0    56.2      50.6
SE      TIE T D F RELIC EBT
literest/      51                           11.3      9.9      9.4     12.3    12.5       12.2     11.9     10.6
Imwtizatin  as 2 Prior YeV r                17.9     ZLB       13.6     11.2     14.1     14.1      6.0      5.3
EtlE114L WDT  Y EI17TII  disursWd only)                          1995
Total I & LT Debt                                            43325
flU                                                            700
Otter Ihitiateral                                              1294
ilateral                                                       3356
Suppliers                                                        0
Financial Harets                                              37975
MI3 EPSIE                                 Debw 31, 1995
I1E1  Debt go                                         700
IURD Debt as I of Total DOLD                          1.4
IER1  Debt Sevice                                     17*
IRD MDt Sevice - I of lbt Sevicn                     2.3
11  Incitdn  hart tes.
21 Includn IWF.
31 Accrul.
41  Fra  1N92 mwds indicate  roiginal  tbrities of HILT debt.
51 EU as an mvage of prior and crnt yas.
Fadery 26, 199



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 2
THE S TATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEKENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1985)
ARGENTINA
Amount less       Undis-
Loan No.  Year    Borrower            Purpose        Cancellations    bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                    596.0
1384      1977    Argentina           Highways           104.7          21.9
1463      1978    Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo      Credit            100.0           1.3
1521      1978    Argentina           Grain Storage       87.0          69.2
1677      1979    Ferrocarriles       Railways
Argentinos S.A.                       96.0          33.1
1761      1979    Argentina           Yacyreta Power    210.0          175.4
1880      1980    Yacimientos
Petroliferos      Oil and Gas
Fiscales           Engineering        27.0           2.1
1905      1980    Argentina           Vocational
Training          58.0          57.2
S-020     1980    Argentina           Coal Exploration   10.0            3.6
2031      1981    Banco Nacional    Oil and Gas
de Desarrollo       Credit           100.0          79.4
2032      1981    Yacimientos
Petroliferos     Refinery
Fiscales            Conversion       200.0          58.7
2063      1981    Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo       Credit II        100.0          94.9
2296      1983    Argentina           Highway            100.0          82.1
2592/1             Yacimientos        Gas Utilization   180.0          180.0
Petroliferos       and Technical
Fiscales           Assistance
2461/1    1986    Argentina           Water Supply        60.0          60.0
Total                                        2,028.7
Of which has been repaid                       475.6
1,553.1
Amount sold                12.8
Of which has been repaid  12.8                    --
Total now held by Bank                       1,553.1
Total undisbursed                                           679.0
/1 This loan is not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1985)
ARGENTINA
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ million
Year        Obligor                    Type of Business  Loans  Equity  Total
1960    Acindar Industria              Steel Products       3.7     -      3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960    Papelera Rio Parana, S.A.       Pulp and Paper      3.0     -       3.0
1961    Fabrica Argentina de           Aitomotive           1.5     -       1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.
1962    PASA, Petroquimica             Petrochemicals       3.0     -      3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/
72     Celulosa Argentina, S.A.        Pulp and Paper    12.5      -      12.5
1969/
75     Dalmine Siderca, S.A.           Steel Products    17.0      -      17.0
1969    Editorial Codex, S.A.          Printing and
Publishing          5.0    2.0     7.0
1971/
73     Calera Avellaneda, S.A.         Cement              5.5     -      5.5
1977/84 Alpargatas S.A.I.C.            Textiles & Fibres 14.5    2.0    16.5
1977    Soyex S.A.                     Soybean Processing
Plant              25.0     -     25.0
1978    Massuh, S.A.                    Pulp and Paper    13.5    2.0    15.5
1978/   Juan Minetti, S.A.             Cement and
81/82                                  Construction
materials          74.0     -      74.0
1978/   Ipako-Industrias                Chemicals and
79/82  Petroauimicas                  Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A                                    20.0      -     20.0
1979/   Alpesca S.A.                   Fisheries            5.2    1.6     6.8
83/84
1984    Petroquimica Cuyo SAIC         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals    36.2    4.0    40.2
Total Gross Commitments                                   239.6   11.6   251.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                              139.8    2.0   141.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                 99.8    9.6   109.4
Total Undisbursed                                 38.3    3.1    41.4



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
A.   Time taken to prepare project:lf        24 months.
B.   Departure Appraisal Mission:            May 26, 1985.
C.   Completion of Negotiations:             January 17, 1986.
D.   Planned Date of Effectiveness:          May 1986.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Conditions for loan effectiveness and release of the first tranche
(para. 60);
(i) presentation to Congress of draft legislation for the
introduction of a federal land tax;
(ii) establishment of the Executive Committee (para. 53);
(iii) redesignation of tractors and agricultural machinery from the
prohibited' to the 'prior approval- classification for imported
goods; and
(iv) Government's execution of subsidiary agreements with the JNC and
JNG for the complementary studies and institutional support
activities.
B.   Conditions of disbursement would be:
(i) for the loan component to be administered through UNDP, the
execution of a Project Agreement between the Borrower and UNDP,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 60); and
(ii) for the five complementary sectoral studies and two institutional
support components (para. 57), and the agricultural sector tax
burden study (para. 48), the presentation of terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
1/ Refers to preparation of the draft land tax law and the requirements
for implementation of the first phase of the land tax.



- 31 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
C.   Conditions for release of the second and final tranche (para. 61):
(i) reduction of the export tax on agricultural commodities to a
level not to exceed 70% of the rates in force on May 1, 1985 or
such other level as may be jointly agreed;
(ii) the Governmment ha.i put into effect fiscal measures sufficient to
compensate for any revenue losses resulting from the export tax
reduction without increasing the overall tax burden of the agri-
cultural sector as compared to its May 1, 1985 levels;
(iii) the designation of tractors and agricultural machinery to be
"automatic entry" classification for imported goods; and
(iv) the Government has made satisfactory progress in the execution of
the agreed land tax implementation schedule (para. 51), including
a simulation of the fiscal revenue effects (federal and
provincial) of the land tax rates included in the land tax
program (para. 54), and all studies being financed under the
loan.



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 7
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Statement on Agricultural Policy
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Re: Policy Statement on Macroeconomic and Agricultural Policy
The Government of Argentina wishes to request a World Bank loan
to support an agricultural policy reform program.
Argentina has a favorable production environment which enables
self-sufficiency in most agricultural needs, and allows it to produce a
range of internationally traded agricultural comodities for which it has a
comparative  production  advantage  compared  to  most  of  its  market
competitors. While agriculture has been growing at an annual rate of about
3Z in recent years, the sector is advancing below its production potential.
The dependence on the vagaries of the international market and
increased subsidies by developed countries introduces an element of price
risk which must be taken into account by producers in making investment and
production decisions; production levels, therefore, could be expected to be
less than that which would be obtained in a more guaranteed and favorable
product  price  environment.    However,  in  addition  to  the  inevitable
international market uncertainties, the producer has been confronted w.'th
Government policies which have had a depressing effect on prices ano
profits. High overall level of export taxes have reduced producer prices,
and the price uncertainty associated with changing export tax rates and
inappropriate exchange rate policies has acted as a disincentive to
agricultural investment. Agricultural import tariffs and regulations have
also had negative implications for adoption of agricultural technology. In
circumstances of relatively low and uncertain product prices and profit
margins,   farmers  have   tended  to  opt  for   lower-risk:lower-output
technologies that have translated into a significant opportunity cost to
the country in terms of foregone production and export earnings.
The Government has initiated a medium-term program to tackle the
underlying distortions in the economy so as to improve the incentives
necessary for a more intensive use of agricultural resources to increase
production  and  exports,   develop  regional  economies,  and  generate
employment.   To this end, exchange  rate policy plays a major role in
maintaining  the  competitiveness  of  exports  and  as  a  mechanism  for
allocating scarce foreign exchange; the system of export incentives is
being strengthened and most agricultural export taxes are to be rolled back
over a four-year period and replaced by a federal land tax based on
unimproved market values; import tariffs on agricultural inputs not
produced locally are being implemented; quantitative and other restrictions
to agricultural inputs are being phased out; the development of a local



- 33 -                     ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 7
fertilizer industry is being promoted to reduce costs to this important
production input; and the lines of credit for private investment in the
sector are to be broadened.
Before going into the specific action programs through which the
policy changes will be instituted, let me refer to several other
interrelated matters dealing with efforts to arrest inflation and promote
growth and some of their side effects; and to the ongoing adjustment
efforts of the Government that, to a considerable extent, provide the
macroeconomic framework for the agriculture sector policy reforms that the
Government has been adopting.
A. Adjustment Patterns of the Argentine Economy
Argentina has undergone a long period of very high rates of
inflation. Over the last 10 years, price increases have averaged a monthly
rate of 11%. As can be expected during this period of high inflation, a
number of different stabilization programs were implemented. However, they
did not achieve the expected results.  The continuous changes in economic
policies have in themselves been a source of significant instability.
When the democratic Government took office in December of 1983,
inflation  had  already  risen  above  17%  a  month.    Moreover,  strong
inflationary  forces  were  already  at  work.         First,  the  previous
administration had ended its period with a huge fiscal deficit amounting to
16% of the  GDP.   Second, most  social groups  had  been  demanding  an
improvement in living standards after a long period of economic
stagnation.   Third, the heavy burden of the country's external debt had
increased the Government's financing requirements and limited the growth
potential of the economy, adding to inflationary pressures.
The Government initially adopted a gradualist approach, aimed at
reducing  inflation  steadily  without  major  disruptions  of  economic
activity.   Thus,  in 1984, real output recovered slightly.   Inflation,
however, continued with a rising trend.  It thus became evident that the
economy would not be able to function with such levels of inflation.
Individuals and firms were unable to plan beyond the very short-term. As a
consequence, investment and production were significantly affected.   The
Government recognized that price stabilization had to take place quickly; a
slow reduction of inflation would be very difficult to manage and would
subject the economy to a long period of unstable prices and reduced
economic activity.   Thus, price stability became a sine qua non for a
sustainable recovery.
B. Ongoing Adjustment Efforts
The Government's new program has three main aspects.   First, a
drastic reduction in the fiscal deficit in order to control the money
supply.   Second, the introduction of a temporary wage and price freeze
intended to eliminate inflationary expectations.   Third, adoption of a
monetary reform in order to eliminate price indexation.



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 7
To undertake the adjustment successfully, the money supply had to
be under control.   Thus, the overall fiscal deficit had to be reduced
significantly.   Through the adoption of a number of measures to reduce
public sector expenditures and increase tax revenues, the deficit was
brought down from 12% of GDP in 1984 to 4Z in 1985. Since the announcement
of the economic program in June of 1985, the Government has been able to
reduce the deficit further during the second half of the year to below 3Z
of GDP. This has been possible in spite of large interest payments on the
external debt.
The wage and price freeze, intended to eliminate the inflationary
momentum",  is not intended to enforce an artificial price structure.
First, it is regarded as a complement, and not a substitute, of adequate
aggregate demand policies. Second, key' prices were adjusted before the
program started so as to avoid future upward pressures. The real exchange
rate was depreciated in order to obtain a substantial surplus in the trade
balance and public sector prices were increased in real terms.
The drastic and sudden reduction in the rate of inflation could
have created a serious situation because very high nominal interest rates
could suddenly have been transformed into extremely large real rates as
prices stopped rising. This would have caused large income transfers from
debtors to creditors.   In order to offset this possibility, the program
introduced a new currency (the austral) and a conversion scale' that fixed
a daily exchange rate between the new austral and the old peso, to be used
for cancellation of peso-denominated debts or indexed debt reflecting
pre-reform inflation indices.
The first results of the new program have been encouraging.  A
sizeable step has been taken in the direction of bringing inflation under
control. The Consumer Price Index fell from a monthly level of 30.5% last
June to 6.2% in July; 3.1% in August, 2% in September, and 1.9% in
October. The Wholesale Price Index, on the other hand, declined from 42%
in June to -0.9% in July, 1.5% in August, 0.6% in September, and 0.8% in
October.   There have also been significant changes in the behavior of
financial markets, among them a substantial increase in demand for money.
The Ml to GDP ratio, *which had practically vanished prior to the economic
reform, increased dramatically in the first two months following the
reform.  At the same time, index-linked deposits have disappeared, a good
reflection of the growing confidence in price stability.   Also, large
external inflows of short-term capital have taken place following the
introduction of the new measures that intended to take advantage of the
large differential between domestic and international interest rates. The
Government has acted to discourage these short-term capital inflows which
have proven to be disruptive in the past.
The drastic slowdown in inflation is causing important changes in
-microeconomic  behavior.   Consumers are now able to  memorize" prices,
something that was nearly impossible when prices changed almost daily.
Price competition works more effectively as firms cut their prices below
the levels officialy quoted. Firms have also a stronger incentive to watch
their  costs  closely.    These  changes  indicate  some  of  the  positive
consequences that result from a sustained stabilization.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 7
Economic activity had been declining since late 1984 and after
June 1985, fell even further.   This was caused by a drop in demand as
consumers delayed their spending and by the elimination of excessive
inventories by firms.  The private sector has reduced its working hours and
layoffs  have  been reported.    The  economy is  thus undergoing a deep
recession. However, some sectors have begun to show an increase in sales
over the last two months, which has permitted the absorption of
inventories.   If sustained, these developments may lead to increases in
output in the near future.   While it is too early to indicate that a
recovery is under way, the recession does not seem to be worsening.
The sudden transition from an economy verging on hyperinflation
to near price stability has not been accomplished without problems.  The
economic recession is far from over and the country needs to recover its
output and employment generation potential. Inflationary expectations have
not been eliminated completely. This is reflected in interest rates which,
given the small present inflation, are very high in real terms.   Public
enterprises are showing a slower than expected adjustment to the new
situation of fiscal discipline.    Some provincial governments are also
showing reluctance to accommodate their expenditure levels to their
available income.   Other sectors are concerned about the possibility of
renewal of inflation once the freeze is ended.
The Government is aware of these concerns but expects that its
economic management efforts will allay them.   Fiscal restraint will be
maintained. The freeze will be phased out gradually, following agreements
with the different sectors concerned, so that it may end without a surge in
prices. As the country benefits from the experience of several months of
very low inflation, inflationary expectations are likely to be broken
further.   This may help to lower interest rates and induce the private
sector to expand output.   The Government's economic growth strategy is
based on increasing exports and promoting private sector investment.   In
order to be able to renew real economic growth, the country needs to
increase  domestic  savings  and  improve  the  allocation  of  investment
resources.  Over the longer term, price stability can only be sustained by
a growing economy.
C. Agricultural Policy Reforms
The agricultural policy reforms relate to five major categories:
(1) exchange rate policy; (2) export incentives; (3) revenue measures; (4)
trade regime; and (5) administrative procedures.
In connection with exchange rate policy, the Government will
continue with the course followed during June of 1985. A significant real
depreciation of the Argentine currency took place.   The Government will
continuously  review  the level of  the real exchange  rate  taking  into
account, inter alia, the differential between international and domestic
inflation and balance of payments evidence, to ensure its adequacy.
The Government proposes gradually to reduce export taxes on
agricultural products and to convert them from a source of revenue into an
effective income policy instrument for the sector, in order to stimulate



- 36 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 7
production and productivity and thereby increase agricultural exports.
The Government has not made an analysis of the proportion of
fiscal revenues which should be supplied by the agricultural sector; nor is
it easy to define exactly how much the sector has been contributing to
total provincial and federal revenues because of the existing system of
fiscal accounting. Because of the heavy reliance the Government has placed
on export taxes as an easily-collected revenue source (about 11% of federal
revenues in 1983 and 1984), the agricultural sector, as the main exporter,
has experienced a fluctuating share in the total tax burden in accordance
with the export tax regime imposed by the Government at any one time,
rather than in accordance with its net income generation or use of national
resources. Thus, the Government intends to carry out a study to determine
a basis for formulating an appropriate tax burden for agriculture in
relation to other sectors, and would also examine alternatives to export
taxes as a fiscal revenue measure, in addition to the proposed federal land
tax.
The Government intends to reform the taxation of the agricultural
sector by introducing a federal land tax as a major source of revenue from
the sector in order to offset the fiscal cost of the above-mentioned
reduction in export taxes. The Executive Branch is now in the process of
finalizing the draft law to be sent to the legislature.   The technical
preparations for the introduction of the land tax began in December 1985
and   involved   agroeconomic   and   cadastral   matters,   institutional
arrangements, tax collection machinery and participation agreements between
the provinces and the Federal Treasury.   The present cadastral base and
administrative arrangements should enable the first phase of the federal
tax to be implemented.
In 1984, the import tariff policy was modified to encourage the
use of certain agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and insecticides.
However, in June 1985 existing tariffs were increased by lOZ fnr 180 days
to increase revenues.  In December 1985 this measures was exteaded for a
further 90 days.  The government will eliminate the temporary increase in
tariffs on imported agricultural and agrochemical inputs.   Agricultural
machinery, currently in the 'proht!Dited" category, will be placed in the
prior approval' category of imports, and subsequently in the -automatic
approval' category. The overall tariff levels for all types of goods will
also be reviewed with the objective of rationalizing tariff policies in all
sectors.
There are other areas related to agriculture where the Government
also intends to act.   Fertilizer use has been very low in Argentine
agriculture, largely due to unfavorable benefit: cost ratios for use of
this input.   These ratios have been poor, on the one hand because of
relatively low product price, and on the other hand because the cost of
fertilizer has been relatively high.  The latter has occurred because the
price has been based on cif cost rather than a local cost of production,



- 37 -                         ANNEX IV
Pafe 6 of 7
and, until recently incurred an import tariff. The Government is adopting
three measures to promote the use of fertilizer and thereby increase
production: (1) a payment-in-kind fertilizer credit program administered
through the JNG is designed to: (a) encourage the use of fertilizer by
guaranteeing a known price relationship between fertilizer and the final
product   (which   has   been   an   important   concern   in   the   recent
hyperinflationary environment); and (b) promote sufficient fertilizer usage
to encourage the private sector to invest in efficient and competitive
fertilizer distribution and service networks; (2) promotion of local
fertilizer manufacturing industry based on existing natural gas resources;
and (3) continuation of applied research on the use of fertilizer on a
range of crops throughout the agricultural zones.
The Government policy with respect to marketing of agricultural
produce will be to: (1) promote the participation of the private sector,
especially cooperative organizations, in grain transport, storage and
marketing; (2) participate in infrastructural investment where it is
necessary to promote economic agricultural development in non-traditional
agricultural areas, or where it is necessary to complement the private
sector investment to ensure orderly marketing of agricultural products; (3)
act as a competitor in the agricultural commodity market where necessary
and set indicative export prices to ensure producers receive full market
value for their products (through JNG); and (4) provide or ensure adequate
marketing investment and operational credit.
The total agricultural sector credit portfolio in each of the
last few years has been less than 50% of the portfolio registered in 1980
reflecting the decline in the use of credit. The environment of political
uncertainty and high inflation combined with positive interest rates has
negatively affected the demand for credit, especially long-term credit.
However, in the case of short-term production credit, inadequate supply by
the Banco de la Nacion and Provincial Banks has been a constraint in recent
years.   The latter has been associated with the Government's program of
credit restriction to  combat inflation.    The  Government's  program  of
promoting increased agricultural production and exports will require
substantial  amounts  of  investment  and  short-term  credit.    Suitable
financing of the machinery pool is especially critical, as the purchase of
machinery is more dependent on the availabilty of attractive financing than
on the price of the machine itself. As the economic stabilization program
brings inflation under control, the Government intends to make adequate
resources available to financial institutions to meet the demands for both
long-term and short-term credit in the agricultural sector.
The Government has put together an ambitious program of policy
reform designed to have a lasting impact on the structure of Argentina's
agriculture.   The Government believes that the export-oriented strategy
will yield positive results.
I should like to stress that while this statement has focussed
upon economic adjustment agricultural policy, continued emphasis would be
placed on a socioeconomic program to sustain growth, increase exports,



-38 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 7
reform the financial sector, generate employment, and improve living
standards. Such development with the adjustment described in this letter
remains our medium-term goal.
In view of the measures being taken, the Argentine Government
would appreciate your favorable consideration of its request for an
Agriculture Sector Loan. We look forward to a continuing exchange of ideas
with the Bank and to the opportunity to discuss from time to time the
progress made in implementing those reforms.
Yours sincerely,
Juan V. Sourrouille
Minister of Economy



- 39 -                        ANNEX V
Page 1 of 4
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Federal Land Tax Implementation Process
1.            The Government has presented to the Bank a schedule for the
implementation of the land tax, including definition of each measure, the
role of each entity in the process, the resources required, and the expected
levels of taxes to be collected. The costs of this program will be financed
under the loan for the period until end-1987.
Initial Updating of Fiscal Values
2.           Four to six months of work, coordinated by the EC, should be
sufficient to update the existing fiscal values for federal tax purposes
throughout the country. This would involve:
(a) Definition of the average unimproved land value for farms in
each land tax administrative zone.l/  This would be based on
recent land sales and the assessment of public and private
sector informed entities.
(b) Derivation of an adjustment factor for the existing average
fiscal value2/ for the zone, by dividing the new value (as
determined unuer (a)) by the -existing average fiscal value.
(c) Definition of an updated fiscal land value for individual
parcels by:
parcel area (from existing cadastres) x existing fiscal value
(from provincial records) x adjustment factor.
1/ By way of example, there are 22 agroecological-agroeconomic zones in
Buenos Aires province. Where existing provincial zoning is not adequate,
modifications would be made to more appropriately reflect agroeconomic
conditions using available soil-climatic data.
2/ Among provinces, a mix of methodologies have been used to determine
fiscal values (e.g. unimproved land value and productivity value); this,
however, will not affect the exercise as the adjustment factor is
designed to bring existing values up to a current land value.



- 40 -                        ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
Progressive Revisior of Fiscal Values
3.         The two-year program would concentrate on completing an even more
accurate land valuation system in the more productive agricultural zones of
the country, particularly the five provinces of the humid Pamps.   It is
expected that substantial improvement can be made by end-1986 and further
accuracy can be obtained by end-1987 in these zones.  Details of the proposed
system follow:
(a) Each province is divided into zones of similar agroecological
conditions.   This will require completion of any outstanding
aerial   photography   and   the   preparation   of   land/soil
classification maps where these are not already available in a
sufficient  degree of detail.   The boundaries of individual
parcels will also have to be imposed on maps of the same scale
as that used for agroecological zoning, so that each parcel can
be located within a particular zone; where this register is
incomplete,  it will  have  to  be  finished.    The  EC would
coordinate and finance activities and major participants would
be INTA, provincial agriculture departments, and provincial
cadastral units.
(b) An estimate of average unimproved land value per hectare for
the zone is obtained through: (a) an examination of sales of
farms in each zone; and (b) questionnaires to and interviews
with informed public and private sector entities concerning
local  land values and sales.    This could differ from the
exercise described in para. 2 to the extent that zoning may be
adjusted; it will be coordinated by the EC.
Cc) To be able to relate individual parcels of land to the zonal
situation, it is convenient to construct an optimal land
category for the zone and to index each parcel in relation to
this optimum. This entails three steps:
(i) Declarations by farmers ("declaracion jurada") of a
potential productivity rating of each parcel based
on seven soil characteristics, grazing quality and
accessibility of the parcel.   This is not a new
concept in Argentina and is already applied in a
number  of   provinces   (including   Buenos   Aires
province). Ratings for each production factor would
be zone-specific, but would be similar for the major
part of  the  humid  Pampa.   This  work  would be
coordinated by the EC using services of provincial
cadastral units.  The latter units would also have
the local experience to check on any declarations
which are inconsistent with the location of a



- 41-                         ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
parcel within a particular agroecological zone. 3/
(ii)  Calculation   of   the   average   potential   land
productivity index for all farms in the zone .(based
on (i) above).
(iii) Division of the unimproved land value for the zone
per ha by the average potential land productivity
for the zone, to yield the optimal unimproved land
value for the zone (OLV-Z).
(d) The land value of a particular parcel (LV-P) is calculated as:
Parcel area4/           x    Parcel index    x      OLV-Z
(from existing cadastres)           (3(c)i)            (3(c)iii)
(e) A check is also made on the production potential value through
an analysis by technical experts of the potential net income
per soil class (for which attainable commercial production
levels are assumed), which is then applied to the typical mix
and proportion of soil classes on farms in the zone (i.e. the
earning capacity of a well developed, commercial production
system in the zone is defined).   This permits an estimate of
the average productive land value per hectare for the zone, by
capitalizing the net income in real terms for the previous five
years.5/ The work would be carried out under the coordination
of the EC by INTA and provincial agricultural and cadastral
departments.
(f) The zonal productive land value is optimized by dividing by the
average zonal potential land productivity index (para.3(c)ii).
The individual parcel productivity value (PV-P) is obtained by
multiplying the zonal optimum by the individual productivity
index.
(g) If the LV-P is higher than the PV-P, then the fiscal land value
of the parcel will be taken as the PV-P.  Should the PV-P be
higher than LV-P, the lower LV-P will be taken as fiscal
value.   This is oa the grounds that it would be difficult to
value land at a price at which it cannot be sold.
3/  In the Entre Rios province,  because of greater soil variability, the
potential productivity ratings will be done by the provincial cadastral
unit rather than through "declaracion jurada.'
4/  Existing cadastres would be gradually improved through the taking of a
new cadastral census throughout the country.
5/  The land tax administration in Buenos Aires province capitalizes the
calculated net income at 6%.



-42 -                       ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
4.        The fiscal land valuation system as described above would represent
a sound and defensible assessment of the value of each land parcel.   The
value would have to be updated annually and, consequently, would necessitate
clearly defined arrangements between the federal and provincial tax
authorities as to how the reassessment would be organized and financed.
5.           Values determined at any time during a year would have to be
indexed to a specific date in the year, say December 31, in periods of
significant inflation.   Individual payments of the land tax quotas6/ within
the year (envisaged as up to six) would also have to be indexed in accordance
with inflation, as would late payments.
6.        The proposed law enables the executive to modify the tax burden for
particular regions or zones in accordance with prevailing social or economic
conditions. This will facilitate the maintenance of a relatively low federal
land tax burden on those less productive zones, and so avoid significant
taxation injustices.
6/  The number of quotas (part-payments) of provincial land taxes varies up
to six amongst the provinces.   It is envisaged that payments under the
new federal tax could be in accordance with typical farm income flows,
which would approximate the existing flow of fiscal revenue from export
taxes.



-43 -                     ANNEXVI
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Complementary Sectoral Studies and Institutional Support
1.   Group A.  Studies carried out through SAG using UNDP as an
administrative agency:
(a) Long-term study on marketing and production strategy, and
transport and storage requirements for crop export products
(US$220,000)
Funds administered through UNDP                US$185,000
National contribution                          US$ 35,000
Duration: 12 to 15 months
(b) Study on the technical and economic feasibility of supplementary
tubevell irrigation in the maize zone (US$297,400)
Funds administered through UNDP                US$253,000
National contribution                          US$ 44,200
Duration: 12 to 15 months
(c) Study on the structural changes in the livestock industry
associated with increased crop production in the humid and
subhumid Pampa (US$273,000)
Funds administered through UNDP                US$244,200
National contribution                          US$ 29,000
Duration: 12 to 15 months
Cd) Study on the development and promotion of agricultural and
agroindustrial exports from regions outside the P&mpa (US$59,000)
Funds administered through UNDP                US$ 59,000
Duration: 9 months
(e) Technical coordination of the studies (a) through (d) (US$30,000)
Funds administered through UNDP                US$ 30,000
2.   Group B.  Study carried out by the Grain Board (JNG) using UNDP as an
administrative agency:



ANNEX VI
-44 -                     Page 2 of 2
(a) Evaluation of existing organization and functions of the JNG,
preparation  of  proposals  for  improvement  or  change,  and
elaboration of legal instrumnts to enable change (US$300,000)
Funds administered through UNDP                 US$282,000
JNG funds                                       USS 18,000
Duration: 2 years
3.   Group C.  Institutional Development.
(a)  JNG.   Development of an information collectior, analysis and
dissemination/extension system which will contribute to sectoral
policy decisions and inform producers of market conditions
(US$336,940)
Funds administered by UNDP                      US$280,700
JNG funds                                       US$ 56,240
(b)  National Meat Board (JNC).  Development of an effective market
information system for all levels of the meat industry taking
into account both the international and local situations (crttle,
sheep and pigs).   The project has been costed at US$666,100,
apart from local staff and operating costs normally covered by
the JNC.   Costs include 5 man-years of specialist consultants,
equipment (13 vehicles, office equipment and microcomputers),
transport costs, contractual services and subscriptions to
publications.
Funds administered through UNDP                 US$666,100
Duration: 2 years
4.   Loan Amounts
USS
Group A                      771,200
Group B                      282,000
Group C                      946.800
2,000,000



ARGE'INA                                                 Appendix to Annex VI
AGICMlURAL SEUCIR LDAN
Implemezntation Schedule for  tudies and Institutional Suport
1985                 1986 (Trtimesters)                  1987 (Trinesters)
Nov               iat       2nd     3rd      4th       ist      2nd      3rd      4th
rwqplPnDnemul Studies
- pbrketing ard production strategy and transport
and storage requiremEnts for export crops                  -
- Feasibility of supplementary irrigation
in the nBiz  zone                                                                                       --
-  Structural dhang   in the livestodck industry                -
- Agricltural and agroindustrial exports from
nrltPacpa regions                                     -
- Orgmnizatiimal and functional aspects of the
uM    Institutional Support
JNG - Market info., collrtion & dissemination-
-  JNC - Market info., colletion & dissexinatim
Federal Lsnd Tax Study
- hAalysis of cadastral situation and definition
of funding requiremmits
- S&rey to develop urnimproved Land value adjustment
indices
-  Provindial-federal ta-rsharing arrangements
- Similatirn of fiscAl revenue effects of specific
tax rates
-  Agroexnoic, agroecological, land reglstratimn and
mapping sudles
- Monitorirg of the investmant-productimn envirnmrent
in the sector
Sectoral laxationStd
-  DL-firdiao esisting tax birden, of the tax birden
aWropriate for the sector ad of fiscal alternatives
to the export tax.
-: Preparatory activities and terus of reference.



- 46 -                            ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Impact of Export Tax Changes on the Five Major Crop Commodities
1.        Four scenarios of export tax levels are compared:
(a)   The base or Level 1 scenario relates to the export tax rates
which existed in November 1984 and which are similar to the
rates imposed in June 1985 (in response to an 18% devaluation
and an immediate need to reduce the fiscal deficit).
(b) The Level 2 scenario is based on the export tax rates which
existed in early 1985 after the Government reduced the rates
on all five commodities as part of its policy to encourage
agricultural  exports.        (These  rates  were  subsequently
increased as indicated above.)
(c) The Level 3 scenario is based on the export tax rates of
70% of the early 1985 rates to be applied in 1987, and 50% of
the early 1985 rates in 1988 and thereafter.
(d)  The  Level  4  scenario  is  the  same  as  for Level  3 until
end-1988, after which the tax rates on the five commodities
are reduced to a uniform 5%; this measures the likely impact
of the Goverrment following through on its strategy to replace
the production-negative export taxes with more appropriate
sectoral taxation.
2.            The tax rates  (excluding the 1.5Z  INTA levy) per commodity,
expressed as a percentage on fob values, are as follows:
Level    Level            Level 3                  Level 4
1        2       1986    1987    1988       1986-88       1989
Wheat *            24        18        18     12.6      9.0        *              5
Maize              31        21        21     14.7    10.5         *              5
Sorghum            31        20       20      14.0    10.0         *              5
Soybean            31        25        25     17.5    12.5         *        export
- oil              16        10        10      7.0      5.0              composite
- meal             16        10        10      7.0      5.0                       5
Sunflower          31        25       25      17.5    12.5         *        export
- oil              20        14        14      9.8      7.0              composite
- meal             21        15        15     10.5      7.5                       5
* As for Level 3.
** The export tax for wheat has recently been reduced to 15Z.



ANNEX VIt
47 -                          Page 2 of 3
3. The impact of the four scenarios is an follows:
1990 Production ('000 m tons)
Level 1        Level 2          Level 3          Level 4
Whest                    9,410            9,980           10,990           11,400
Maize                   12,160           13,410           14,360           14,600
Sorghum                  8,140            8,040            8,400           8,580
Soybean                 10,450           10,570           11,130           11,390
Sunflower                3.790            4,000            4,500           4,470
TOTAL                   43,950           46,000           49,380           50,440
2 - 1                           2,050 (5%)
3 - 1                                            5,430 (12%)
4 - 1                                                             6,490 C15Z)
1986       1987         1988        1989        1990
current US$ million
Wm j   Revenue
Level 1                    4,672       5,271       5,702        6,379       6,948
Wv,;J                      4,900       5,653       6,034        6,892       7,407
(-,)                         228         382         332          514        458
Level 3                    4,984       5,975        6,560       7,602       8,204
(3-1)                        312         704         858        1,224       1,255
Level 4                    4,984       5,975       6,560        7,774       8,443
(4-1)                        312         704         864        1,395       1,494
Net Foreige Exchange Revenue
"WIM-   I U
Level 1                    4,345(7)*  4,902         5,303       5,932       6,462
Level 2                    4,552(7.1) 5,252        5,606        6,403       6,881
(2-1)                        207         350         303          471         419
Level 3                    4,630(7.1) 5,545(7.2)  6,084(7.25) 7,051         7,609
(3-1)                        285         643         781        1,119       1,147
Level 4                    4,630(7.1) 5,545(7.2)  6,084(7.25) 7,207(7.3) 7,827
(4-1)                        285         643         781        1,275       1,365
* Figures in parenthesis indicate the estimated foreign exchange cost as a
percentage of gross export revenue.



ANNEX VIl
- 48 -                     Page 3 of 3
Export Tax Revenues
Level 1                    1,205       1,354        1,471       1,632       1,777
Level 2                      903       1,039        1,116       1,263       1,358
(1-2)                        302         315          355         369         419
Level 3                      917         768          604         694         749
(1-3)                        287         586          867         938       1,029
Level 4                      917         768          604         389         422
(1-4)                        287         586         867        1,243       1,355
Consumer-Producer Income Transfer *
Level 2                      114         127          139          157        171
Level 3                      114         224          314         350         383
Level 4                      114         224          314         444         479
T This represents the additional consumer expenditure associated with
increased prices caused by the reduction in export taxes; the levels 2-4
are compared with the situation at the highest export tax rate, Level 1.



Zo-  \  B O L I V I A
t   \/~   N.bo
1                           ' -      P A P   ' U A Y
)   JUJY                            -*                          B R A Z  I L
C   SA[1A-I                                L'         )SANT
DOA   /SANOaUr5A J                                   l        1
f       {  A,~TUCUAMA4                                                Bw..od
_  RES t~NClf _   Pdos fo   L     ~,4iUA Y
/ I             ) ~oM,aod.Iti*.                 r     a r AES
30'                                                  z        ,    p              1*                                        3
\           C  %       s  NTAA  ' *''f 1                 \~~~~~AT
M/ I     ENDO SA  SAN     . OS
.     ,                        \\bt BAHIA             I      4
ARGENTINA
. tfS-n1a1-ote.h._AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
-a ,_.v40*r                                  LOAN
'AWONA,..s ot II-. ...mpa.
Major roods
fi / to ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Parts
Reren
9   PCOODAVIAO                                  Province  oundaries
5 .  -.  nterngtional Boundories
408              t     MtlCl ~~~~~~LEGOS
.OU.  of fd U. E
m__dd IW f  U
_W _S "Wu 10_            
- mw It,.w                                                              9110. S'-  Ala   IRIt, C)  --    1  400  600     goo
_,_,, _., U- NWI                                                                   0      ItrO    200     300    400    500
.9*  'a.                                                         _ _ _  _ _ __-. 
5FIPTEhtttEtt 198S






