                      INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                                    APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 04/21/2005                                       Report No.: AC1472

1. Project Statistics
Country: Uruguay                                 Project ID: P057481
Project Name: UY Transport Infrastructure Maintenance and Rural Access
Task Team Leader: Jorge M. Rebelo
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 14, 2005         Estimated Board Date: June 7, 2005
Managing Unit: LCSFT                             Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
                                                 Loan
Sector: Roads and highways (60%);Sub-national government administration
(15%);Ports, waterways and shipping (15%);Central government administration (10%)
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P);Trade facilitation and market access
(S);Infrastructure services for private sector development (S);Small and medium
enterprise support (S);Other rural development (S)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):              70.00
IDA Amount (US$m.):                 0.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):                 0.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):                 0.00
Other financing amounts by source:
        BORROWER                                                            30.00
                                                                            30.00
Environmental Category: C - Not Required
Simplified Processing                            Simple []             Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)            Yes [ ]      No [X]

2. Project Objectives
The project?s development objective is to upgrade the country?s transport infrastructure
to a condition that facilitates the transportation of freight and passengers at a cost-
efficient level of service. This will be done by rehabilitating key transport links,
removing existing bottlenecks, arresting any further deterioration of infrastructure due to
budgetary constraints, and improving infrastructure management and safety. The project
will help to reduce transport costs and preserve the infrastructure stock in Uruguay in an
efficient and sustainable manner at both the national and local levels. In general, the
structure and composition of the transport industry in Uruguay is highly competitive.
Thus, the net reduction in transport costs brought about by the project should translate
into freight tariff reductions, ultimately reducing the price of the transported goods and
stimulating higher levels of productivity and economic activity.

 The project?s subsidiary objectives are to: (i) reduce road-user costs by removing
physical constraints to permit the transit of larger and heavier vehicles and improving
road safety on international corridors; (ii) assist MTOP in creating the enabling
environment to consolidate its ability to attract more steady and reliable funding for the

maintenance and rehabilitation of transport infrastructure and enhance infrastructure
management practices; (iii) improve the accessibility of rural areas so as to enhance the
comparative advantages of agricultural and livestock producers and improve the
integration of secondary urban centers and the rural population into the national
economy; (iv) contribute to ensuring that key transfer terminals are fully prepared to
serve the new demands for inter-modal freight and passenger transport.

 The achievement of the project?s development objective will be assessed through the
following key indicators: (i) percentage of the road network below the optimal level of
service according to traffic volume and surface type; (ii) percentage of the road network
in bad condition; and (iii) value of road assets. Intermediate results will be measured by:
(i) the progress in the removal of bottlenecks impeding the transit of trucks loaded up to
Mercosur standards; (ii) the average network roughness on targeted national and
departmental roads; (iii) the extent of private sector participation in the sector; (iv)
progress in the implementation of institutional strengthening activities; and (v) indicators
measuring road safety conditions (road accident indices and mortality rates on targeted
networks).

3. Project Description
The overall cost of the proposed project is now estimated at US$100 million of which
US$89.8 million correspond to the infrastructure components (90 percent) and the
remaining US$9.5 million to the institutional strengthening and road safety components.
The Bank would finance US$70 million (including the front-end-fee), and the GOU the
remaining US$30 million . To support the stated objectives the project would consist of
the following components (costs include physical and price contingencies):

 Component 1: Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$44.6 million, including
contingencies). This component is fundamental in restoring the service levels of strategic
transport infrastructure, whose condition constrain the efficient provision of transport
services, in particular, the transit of heavier and larger trucks loaded up to Mercosur
standards. The transport infrastructure that has been selected corresponds to links
between major economic poles and export markets and transfer terminals supporting key
economic activities. This component entails carrying out reinforcement, replacement, and
rehabilitation works and will be subdivided into three subcomponents:

 Subcomponent (A) DNV Managed Routes (US$8.4 million, including contingencies).
Consists of the: (a) rehabilitation works consisting of reinforcing the pavement structures
of : (i) about 15 km between ex-national Route 3 and ?km 594.100 on national Route 3;
and (ii) about 20 km between Rio Tacuar?-Ca?ada Santos on national Route 18; these
sections are part of international corridors.

 Subcomponent (B) CVU Managed Routes and Bridges (US$27.6 million, including
contingencies). It consists of the (a) rehabilitation works consisting of reinforcing the
pavement structures of: (i) 5 km of National route 1, between km144 and National route
22; about 16 km of National route 1, between the km 144 and National route 2; and about
3 km of the La Planta Urbana de Young section on national Route 3; and (b) carrying out

of reconditioning works consisting of strengthening, widening or replacing the existing
structures of 20 bridges located on national Routes 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 21, 26, 28, 30 and 200
(Interbalnearia route) and the access to Montevideo.

 Subcomponent (C) Transfer Terminal Rehabilitation (US$8.6 million, including
contingencies). Transfer terminals have deteriorated considerably as a result of the lack
of maintenance and the postponement of necessary new investments due to budgetary
constraints. This component consists of minor infrastructure rehabilitation works in
several terminals. These interventions are needed to adequately respond to the new
demands for the inter-modal transportation of freight and of passengers. The proposed
works to be financed are minor investments in several terminals. In order, to adequately
address the pertinence of each proposed investment a framework to screen the candidate
investments will be used. The proposed framework will include the following criteria that
must be met by the investments in order to qualify for financing ; (i) the individual
investments must be aligned with the overall objectives of this project; (ii) the specific
investments must not reduce the possibility private participation; (iii) adequate economic
evaluation; (iv) compliance with MTOP?s port environmental assessment manual;

 Component 2: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contracting (CREMA contracts)
(US$24.85 million, including contingencies). This component entails carrying out
rehabilitation and maintenance works in six road sub-networks covering an estimated 981
km of national roads through performance-based CREMA contracts. The sub-networks
under each contract comprise different pavement types and service conditions. The
contracts to be financed under the proposed project cover six networks: (i) National route
3 (between National route 1 and Paso del Puerto, about 243 km); (ii) National route 5
(between km 97-Paso de los Toros, 184 km); (iii) road access to Montevideo (85 km);
(iv) Canelones center west sub-network (130 km); (v) Canelones east sub-network (140
km); and (vi) tourist zone (200 km).

 Component 3: Departmental Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$20.6 million,
including contingencies). The program consists of carrying out eligible annual
departmental road rehabilitation and maintenance sub-projects executed by participating
Departmental Governments and partially funded by the DNV through an annual
performance based agreement. The departmental road maintenance program under the
proposed project entails routine maintenance of about 9,000 km of gravel roads per year,
including some periodic maintenance of roads and bridges. All departments in the
country, excluding Montevideo, are expected to participate in the program and it should
cover at least two years of the maintenance requirements for these roads, starting from
calendar year 2006.

 Component 4: Transport Infrastructure Safety Program (US$3.8 million, including
contingencies). This component entails: (i) implementing low-cost measures to increase
road safety, including roads passing through urban areas, following the experience with
the Second Transport project; and (ii) acquisitions and installation of road safety
elements.

 Component 5: Transport Sector Management and Institutional Building (US$5.8
million, including contingencies). This component would entail: (i) assisting MTOP in
the preparation of its transport infrastructure plan for years 2005-2009, including
engineering and economic studies as needed; (ii) training for capacity building and
provision of new tools (HDM-4 model); (iii) strengthening infrastructure management,
including enhancing technical capacity at participating Departamentos and supporting the
preparation of master plans for regional ports; (iv) assisting MTOP in the preparation of
an urban transport program through the contracting of a master plan for the Montevideo
Metropolitan Area; and (v) feasibility studies, environmental assessments, and detailed
design studies of the Montevideo ring-road and access roads project.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project is national covering several sections of infrastructure in different areas of the
country

5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team
Mr Marco Antonio Zambrano Chavez (LCSFT)


6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                                Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                           X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                               X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                        X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   X
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                           X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                 X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                            X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                     X


II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management

A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues

1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
The project will have a positive impact on the living standards of the country?s
population through its direct effect on competitiveness, employment, and economic
growth. The negative impact of the proposed project on the local population and cultural
property would be minimal, as most of the proposed roadwork will consist of the
rehabilitation and maintenance of already existing interurban highways and departmental
roads passing through sparsely populated areas
 Environmental classification. The project has been classified as ?Category B?, following
the Bank?s Operational Guidelines [OP 4. 01], as no significant negative impacts that
could jeopardize the natural environment of its area of influence are foreseen. This
classification takes into account the fact that the proposed project will support the

rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads, either paved (national road network) or
unpaved (departmental road network), or minor repair and maintenance works for
transfer terminals and consequently will not involve new heavy construction activities.
The main issues that have to be considered to ensure an adequate environmental
management the subprojects include: stabilizing slopes, recovering areas for the
exploitation and deposit of materials, controlling existing erosion processes, and
incorporating road safety measures. Prevention, mitigation and/or compensation
measures for these issues are straightforward.
 Involuntary Resettlement. This Policy is triggered because in a particular road section of
Route 1 to be rehabilitated under the first component, needs a specific instrument to take
into account a potential affectation of some properties resulting from the construction of a
by-pass to Colonia Valdense. In this sense, DNV developed an Abbreviated Involuntary
Resettlement Plan according to the Safeguard Policy of the Bank. This Plan has been
published in the INFOSHOP according the Bank's rules. According to the census carried
out as part of the Resettlement Plan, 11 families are concerned and 14 properties will be
affected; consisting of 11 housing units, 3 hangars, 1 commercial establishment, and a
unit once used as a tire replacement shop. Residential units and commercial
establishment will be compensated for lost assets and relocation; the project files contain
the general practice in Uruguay concerning the evaluation of compensation. According to
the socioeconomic survey, the 63% of the families concerned had incomes above 5
minimum salaries, 27% between 2 and 3 minimum salaries, and 9% just under 2
minimum salaries. Four of the eleven families concerned were renting (and had not been
living in the area long), and the rest were relatively longtime residents. When
interrogated on their view of the expropriation 55% said they will reconstruct their homes
in the remainder of the property whilst 45% said they would move (this includes all the
families that rent). The owners of the rented properties do not, according to the survey,
have any particular difficulties with the potential expropriation. On the whole, the
expropriation will not provoke significant resettlement only one owner-family would
relocate, the others that will potentially relocate are renting.
 In addition, the Environmental Assessment indicates that there is no informal
occupation of the right-of-way in any subproject, needing eventual resettlement.
Furthermore, with the present level of detail known for other subprojects no further
resettlement is foreseen.
 Cultural property policy. According to the new guidelines, all projects involving civil
works could trigger the cultural property policy. Given this, even though there is no
expectation that cultural property is in the project area, the Environmental Assessment
sets forth "chance find" procedures in the case that such property is encountered.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
None identified.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
Does not apply.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
Environmental Assessment. The environmental assessment focused on the main aspects
agreed upon with the Quality Assurance Team (QAT) of the Bank: (i) analysis of the
mechanisms established to address the issues that trigger Bank safeguards; (ii) evaluation
of the environmental management capacity of the executing agency; (iii) environmental
evaluation of the first package of projects in each component; and (iv) and evaluation of
overall compliance with the National Environmental Legislation. The environmental
evaluation for the road infrastructure components of the first package of subprojects was
conducted by the Environmental Unit of the DNV and reviewed by the Bank as part of
the project?s due diligence. Individual subprojects were evaluated using the screening
methodology established in the QAT?s Guide for Rapid Environmental and Social
Evaluation of Road Projects, with the purpose of ensuring that environmental and social
issues were appropriately considered in their design. This assessment determined that for
one of the analyzed projects an Abbreviated Involuntary Resettlement Plan was required,
and the environmental risk for the remaining projects was moderate for six, and low for
the remaining sixteen. None of the projects have critical environmental and social risks.
Therefore, the project is environmentally viable and fulfils the Bank?s Environmental
Safeguards Policy.
 DNV adopted an Environmental Manual, in 1998, that sets guidelines and specifications
to be followed during execution of works to avoid or mitigate any potential adverse
environmental impact. The Bank reviewed the Manual at the time, and found it
satisfactory. All road sub-project works carried out under this project must comply with
the DNV Environmental Manual.

 DNV established a formal unit charged with the oversight of all environmental aspects
for road projects and the enforcement of DNV?s Environmental Manual. As a matter of
common practice to prevent, mitigate and/or compensate environmental impacts, the
Environmental Unit of the DNV applies the profile form for Rapid Environmental and
Social Assessment developed by the Bank?s QAT adapted to the Uruguayan
environmental legislation. Likewise, the Study of Environmental Assessments and
Management Plans have been developed according to its legislation. The works to be
executed during the first year of this project all have the permission of the Environmental
Authority (DINAMA).

 An analysis of the DNV's Environmental Unit and Environmental Manual was a carried
out as part of the Bank?s due diligence during the preparation of the PAD, resulting in the
identification of two activities that should be carried out in order to improve its
institutional capacity to address social and environmental issues. These activities include:
(i) updating the current Environmental Manual; and (ii) developing a plan for
strengthening environmental and social management in the DNV.

 The DNV will receive important resources in the short term from the IDB to strengthen
its environmental and social management capacity. A full-time consultant will be hired to
develop a series of activities that will definitely contribute to an improvement in the

environmental and social management capacity within the institution, in particular the
updating the Manual on Environmental Management.
 The environmental evaluation for the transfer terminal sub-components of the first
package of subprojects was carried out by an independent consultant on behalf of DNH.
Individual subprojects were evaluated using the screening methodology established for
the project and based on Environmental Manual for Port Sector Activities and Project of
June 1988, developed by National Port Administration (ANP), and that was approved by
the Bank (First transport Project) and has been adopted by DNH.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Environmental Assessment reports and Resettlement Plan as well as Environmental
Management Plans are and will be disclosed in the Ministry?s webpage.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date

Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                    03/11/2005
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                03/11/2005
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                 04/07/2005
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                    04/01/2005
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                04/01/2005
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                 04/06/2005
* If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:




C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?              No
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA       No
report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the          Yes
credit/loan?
OPN 11.03 - Cultural Property
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property?            Yes

  Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential           Yes
  adverse impacts on cultural property?
  OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
  Has a resettlement plan, abbreviated plan, or process framework (as             Yes
  appropriate) been prepared?
  If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve        Yes
  the plan / policy framework / policy process?
  BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure
  Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's        Yes
  Infoshop?
  Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a        Yes
  form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
  groups and local NGOs?
  All Safeguard Policies
  Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities     Yes
  been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project    Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the            Yes
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the              Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?



  D. Approvals


Signed and submitted by:                              Name                         Date
Task Team Leader:                  Mr Jorge M. Rebelo                            03/14/2005
Environmental Specialist:          Mr Marco Antonio Zambrano Chavez              03/02/2005
Social Development Specialist      Mr Marco Antonio Zambrano Chavez              03/02/2005
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:
 Comments:
Sector Manager:                    Mr Jose Luis Irigoyen                         04/01/2005
 Comments: Cleard with me. The team has complied with quality control requirements.

