Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7303-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Transport Infrastructure Maintenance and Rural Access Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 16, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7303-UR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 2005, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows:  
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on 
their importation (with the exception of import tariffs above 28%), 
manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the 
Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of 
its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the 
Page  3
-
2
-
amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set 
forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required 
to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Arrangement” means any of the arrangements mentioned in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Annual Departmental Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance 
Subproject” means any of the annual investments referred to in Part C of the Project; 
(c) “BCU” 
means 
Banco Central del Uruguay
,
the Borrower’s central bank;   
(d) 
“CREMA Contract” means a multi-year contract under Part B of the 
Project, entered into by DNV (as defined below) with a private sector contractor, which 
contract obligates the private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road 
rehabilitation and maintenance work as a single package, from design and programming 
of the works, through the execution of such works, with respect to an identified portion of 
the Borrower’s national road network as referred to in said Part of the Project; 
(e) 
“CREMA Subproject” means any of the investments referred to in Part B 
of the Project; 
(f) 
“CVU” means the 
Corp
oración Vial del Uruguay
,
S.A., an entity vested 
with legal personality, which pursuant to the terms of the Assignment Agreement 
(
Contrato de Cesión
)
of
February 18, 2003 entered into between CVU and 
Corporación 
Nacional para el Desarrollo
,
has been assigned the rights and obligations of 
Corporación 
Nacional para el Desarrollo
 (CND) under the Concession Agreement (
Convenio-
Contrato
)
entered into between the Borrower, through MTOP (as defined below) and 
CND dated October 5, 2001 (as amended) for purposes of, 
inter alia
,
granting to CND 
the administration of the Mega-Concession (as defined below); 
Page  4
-
3
-
(g) 
“CVU Subproject” means any of the investments referred to in Part A.2 
of the Project; 
(h) “DNH” 
means 
Dirección Nacional de Hidrografía
,
the Borrower’s 
National Directorate of Hidrography within MTOP (as defined below); 
(i) 
“DNH Subprojects” means any of the investments under Part A.3 of the 
Project; 
(j) “DNV” 
means 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad
,
the Borrower’s National 
Directorate of Highways within MTOP (as defined below); 
(k) 
“DNV Environmental Manual” means DNV’s environmental manual, 
acceptable to the Bank, dated May 1998, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(l) 
“DNV Subprojects” means any of the investments referred to in Part A.1 
of the Project; 
(m) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(o) 
 “Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(p) 
“HDM-4 Model” means the Highway Development Management Model 
which is used to carry out technical and economic evaluations of road investments; 
 
(q) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth: (i) the criteria for selecting Annual Departmental 
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subprojects; (ii) the list of CREMA Subprojects, 
CVU Subprojects, DNH Subprojects and DNV Subprojects; (iii) the Project indicators; 
and (iv) the Resettlement Plan; 
(r) 
“Mega-Concession” means the public road concession, which is 
currently administered by CVU (as defined above), to carry out construction, 
rehabilitation and maintenance works in respect of a number of national roads and 
bridges;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(s) 
“MTOP” means 
Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Públicas
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Public Works;  
 
(t) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.06 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended form time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank; 
(u) “Participating 
Departamento
”
means a political subdivision of the 
Borrower which is vested with legal personality and that has been selected by the 
Borrower (in a manner acceptable to the Bank) to participate in the carrying out of 
Annual Departmental Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subprojects (as defined 
above); 
(v) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit established in MTOP (as 
defined above) pursuant to the Borrower’s resolution dated September 19, 1989; 
(w) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
13, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(x) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(y) 
“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under 
the Project which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or 
habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; 
(z) 
“Resettlement Plan” means the Borrower’s plan (acceptable to the Bank) 
dated April 1, 2005 which sets forth, 
inter alia
,
the legal framework for the expropriation 
of affected land, the lots of affected land to be subject to expropriation, the timing for the 
expropriation of said land, the estimated amount of compensation to be paid to the 
affected population and the socio-economic situation of the same; 
(aa) 
“Road Safety Subproject” means any of the investments referred to in 
Part D of the Project; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ab) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(ac) 
“Subproject” means an Annual Departmental Road Rehabilitation and 
Maintenance Subproject, a CVU Subproject, a DNH Subproject, a DNV Subproject, a 
CREMA Subproject, and/or a Road Safety Subproject (as the case may be); and 
(ad) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank. 
 Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CVU in respect of Part A.2 of the 
Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seventy million 
Dollars ($70,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in 
respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2011 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall:  
(a) 
carry out: (i) Parts A.1, B and D of the Project through DNV; (ii) Part 
A.3 of the Project through DNH; and (iii) Part E of the Project through MTOP, all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, social, engineering, public utility, ecological and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for said Parts of the Project; 
(b) 
cause CVU (pursuant to the terms of the Subsidiary Agreement) to carry 
out Part A.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical, social, engineering, public utility, 
ecological and environmental practices, shall take and/or cause to be taken (as the case 
may be) all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CVU to carry out said Part of the Project, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
the carrying out of said Part of the Project; and 
(c) 
cause each Participating 
Departamento
 (pursuant to the terms of the 
corresponding Annual Arrangement, as said term is defined in Section 1.02 (a) of this 
Agreement) to carry out the corresponding Annual Departmental Road Rehabilitation and 
Maintenance Subproject (as said term is defined in Section 1.02 (b) of this Agreement) 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, technical, social, engineering, municipal, ecological and environmental 
practices, shall take and/or cause to be taken (as the case may be) all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable each Participating 
Departamento
 to carry out the corresponding Annual 
Departmental Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subproject, and shall not take or 
Page  9
-
8
-
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of 
said Annual Departmental Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subproject.
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan (allocated to Category (1) (b) set forth in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) available to CVU under a subsidiary 
agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CVU 
(as referred to in paragraph (b) below), under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia
,
those set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause CVU to, prior to the commencement 
of any works under Part A.2 of the Project: (i) enter into the Subsidiary Agreement; and 
(ii) furnish to the Bank an opinion or opinions, acceptable to the Bank, of counsel 
acceptable to the Bank, providing that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CVU and is legally binding upon the Borrower 
and CVU in accordance with its terms. 
(c) 
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the 
Page  10
-
9
-
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, 
waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.05. (a) For purposes of carrying out each Annual Departmental Road 
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subproject within the territorial jurisdiction of a given 
Participating 
Departamento
,
the Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of the 
Loan (allocated to Category (1) (e) set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) 
available to said Participating 
Departmento
 under the pertinent annual arrangement (the 
Annual Arrangement) to be entered into between the Borrower and each Participating 
Departmento (prior to the carrying out of the pertinent Annual Departmental Road 
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subproject), under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia
,
those set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under each Annual Arrangement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, 
waive or fail to enforce any Annual Arrangement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:  
(i) 
not later than three months after the Effective Date, approve a 
manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said 
manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(A) the institutional and 
administrative structure of the PCU and its functions and 
responsibilities; (B) the terms of reference for the professional 
and administrative staff of PCU; (C) 
the Project’s chart of 
accounts, internal controls, and budgeting, accounting and 
financial reporting systems; (D) the FMR formats; (E) the terms 
of reference for carrying out the Project audits under Section 
4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; (F) the Project disbursement and 
procurement procedures; (G) the Project’s standard bidding 
documents (which shall include, in respect of the works to be 
carried under the Subprojects, a provision whereby the 
contractor must comply with the pertinent provisions of the 
pertinent environmental management plan (referred to in 
Sections 3.08, 3.09 and 3.10 of this Agreement) in carrying out 
said works); and (H) the terms of reference for the progress 
reports referred to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
(ii) 
thereafter carry out Parts A.1, A.3, B, D and E of the Project, and 
cause CVU and each Participating 
Departamento
 to carry out the 
Parts of the Project under their responsibility, in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
(b) 
During the period before the Borrower has approved the Operational 
Manual, the Borrower shall ensure tha
t
the Project’s chart of accounts, internal controls, 
and budgeting, accounting and financial reporting systems have been established, and are 
in operation, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
 
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.07.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, and shall cause CVU and each Participating 
Departamento
 to, carry out the Parts of the Project under their responsibility, in 
accordance with the provisions of the DNV Environmental Manual, which manual sets 
forth, 
inter ali
a, the environmental norms, guidelines and procedures for carrying out the 
environmental screenings and/or environmental assessments referred to in Sections 3.08, 
3.09 and 3.10 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the DNV Environmental 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to the commencement of any works for a 
particular DNV Subproject, DNH Subproject, CREMA Subproject, and/or Road Safety 
Subproject: (i) carry out an environmental screening and/or an environmental assessment 
(as the case may be) of the pertinent works; and (ii) if determined by the Bank, approve 
an environmental management plan, acceptable to the Bank, for each said works (which 
plan shall be based on the results of the environmental screening and/or environmental 
assessment mentioned in (i) herein, and the Bank comments on the results of said 
screening and/or assessment, if any), all in accordance with the provisions of the DNV 
Environmental Manual; and (b) immediately after said approval, implement and/or cause 
to be implemented (as the case may be) the corresponding environmental management 
plan in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 3.01 (b) and 3.04 
(b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CVU to: (a) prior to the commencement 
of any works under each CVU Subproject: (i) carry out an environmental screening 
and/or an environmental assessment (as the case may be) of the pertinent works; and (ii) 
if determined by the Bank, approve an environmental management plan, acceptable to the 
Page  12
-
11
-
Bank, for each said works (which plan shall be based on the results of the environmental 
screening and/or environmental assessment mentioned in (i) herein, and the Bank 
comments on the results of said screening and/or assessment, if any), all in accordance 
with the provisions of the DNV Environmental Manual; and (b) immediately after said 
approval, implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be) the 
corresponding environmental management plan in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.10. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each Participating 
Departmento
 to: (a) prior to the 
commencement of any works for a particular road within an Annual Departmental Road 
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subproject: (i) carry out an environmental screening 
and/or an environmental assessment (as the case may be) of the pertinent works; and (ii) 
if determined by the Bank, approve an environmental management plan, acceptable to the 
Bank, for each said works (which plan shall be based on the results of the environmental 
screening and/or environmental assessment mentioned in (i) herein, and the Bank 
comments on the results of said screening and/or assessment, if any), all in accordance 
with the provisions of the DNV Environmental Manual; and (b) immediately after said 
approval, implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be) the 
corresponding environmental management plan in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.11. (a)  The Borrower shall operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation, the PCU with a structure, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility of the PCU to assist the 
Borrower in the coordination, monitoring and supervision of the carrying out of the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by professional and 
administrative staff, all in numbers and with qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Bank. 
Section 3.12.   
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and to furnish 
to the Bank, not later than thirty days after the end of each calendar semester during 
Project implementation (starting with the report due in January 2006), a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
Page  13
-
12
-
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof during the following calendar semester; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, CVU and the Participating 
Departamentos
 not 
later than July 30 of each year of Project implementation (starting in the year 2006), the 
pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take and/or 
cause to be taken, as the case may be, all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
As part of the annual review to be carried out in the year 2007 (the mid-term review), the 
Borrower shall also review with the Bank the progress achieved by MTOP in the carrying 
out of the Project activity referred to in Part E.1 of the Project. 
Section 3.13.
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) (i) and (ii) 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not later than December 31 of each year of Project 
implementation (starting in the year 2005), prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual 
investment plan, acceptable to the Bank (each such plan to include, 
inter alia
,
a
complete 
description of: (a) DNV’s  annual national road maintenance investments; and (b) DNH’s 
annual national maintenance investments, the expenditures to be incurred in respect of 
said works and the source of financing of said expenditures). 
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that any Subproject (with the 
exception of the CVU Subproject to be carried out under Part A.2 (a) (i) of the Project) 
does not involve any Resettlement
.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: (i) cause CVU to implement, prior to the 
commencement of any works under the CVU Subproject to be carried out under Part A.2 
(a) (i) of the Project, the Resettlement Plan in accordance with its terms; and (ii) take 
and/or cause to be taken, all necessary actions to enable CVU to comply with its 
obligation referred to in (i) herein.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of  reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure (as 
the case may be), the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.12 of this Agreement,  the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
Page  15
-
14
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants 
Section 5.01.
 
The Borrower shall cause CVU: 
(a) 
to make a provision satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; and 
(b) 
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, technical, social, engineering, public utility, ecological 
and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
Page  16
-
15
-
(a) 
That CVU shall have failed to perform one or more of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement, so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion 
of the Bank, the ability of CVU to carry out Part A.2 of the Project, and/or to assist the 
Borrower in complying with its obligations related to said Part of the Project (as referred 
to in paragraph (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement). 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CVU will be able to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
calendar days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII 
Termination 
Section 7.01. The date September 14, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The Minister of MTOP is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Transportes y Obras Públicas 
Rincón 561, piso 8, esq. Ituzaingo 
 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
MINTRANSP 
 39822071 
 598-2-916-2883 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Montevideo, Uruguay, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By /s/ Danilo Astori 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed 
(1) Works: 
 
(a)  under DNV Subprojects 
5,200,000) 
70% 
 
)
(b)  under CVU Subprojects 
17,000,000) 
 
)
(c)  under DNH Subprojects 
5,320,000) 
 
)
(d)  under CREMA Subprojects 
15,230,000) 
 
)
(e)  under Annual Departmental 
12,760,000) 
 
Road Rehabilitation and 
) 
 
Maintenance Subprojects 
) 
 
)
(f)  under Road Safety 
1,500,000) 
 
Subprojects 
 
(2) 
Goods under Road Safety 
850,000 
70% 
 Subprojects 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
3,910,000 
70% 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
350,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated  
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 Expenditures 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(5) 
Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 Collars 
  this 
Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
7,880,000
TOTAL 70,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $14,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of 
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures within one year before that 
date but after June 1, 2004. 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract with the exception of: (i) the first three 
contracts to be procured under Part B.1 (a) of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
and (ii) any other contract for goods to be subject to Prior Review as provided in Section 
IV (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) works costing less than $4,000,000 equivalent 
per contract with the exception of: (i) the first three contracts to be procured under Part 
B.1 (b) of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement (which shall include within those 
three contracts at least one contract for works under a CREMA Subproject); and (ii) any 
other contract for works to be subject to Prior Review as provided in Section IV (c) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract with the exception of those contracts for services of 
individuals consultants selected on a sole source basis; and (d) services of consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract with the 
exception of those contracts for services of consulting firms selected on a sole source 
basis, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Page  22
-
21
-
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
BCU, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Page  23
-
22
-
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
Annex A 
 
to 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Page  25
-
24
-
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
Annex B 
 
to 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to upgrade the Borrower’s transport infrastructure 
to a condition which facilitates the transportation of freight and passengers at a cost-
efficient level of service. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1. 
Carrying out of rehabilitation works (within the existing right of way) which 
consist of reinforcing the pavement structures for: 
 
(a) 
approximately 15 kilometers of the section between the kilometer in 
which the Borrower’s former national route 3 started and kilometer 594.1 on the 
Borrower’s national route 3; and 
 
(b) 
approximately 20 kilometers of the Río Tacuarí and Cañada Santos 
section on the Borrower’s national Route 18, all as listed in the Implementation Letter. 
2. 
(a) 
Carrying out of rehabilitation works which consist of reinforcing the 
pavement structures for: (i) approximately 5 kilometers of the section located between 
kilometer 144 on the Borrower’s national route 1 and the area which links said route with 
the Borrower’s national route 22; (ii)  approximately 16 kilometers (within the existing 
right of way) of the section located between  kilometer 144 on the Borrower’s national 
route 1 and the area which links said route with the Borrower’s national route 2; and (iii) 
approximately 3 kilometers (within the existing right of way) of the 
La Planta Urbana de
 
Young section on the Borrower’s national route 3; and 
 
(b) 
carrying out of bridge restoration works (within the existing right of 
way) which consist of strengthening, widening and/or replacing the existing structures of 
approximately 20 bridges located on the Borrower’s national routes 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 21, 26, 
28 30 and 200, and on the access to the city of Montevideo (all under the Mega-
Concession), as said rehabilitation and bridge restoration works are listed in the 
Implementation Letter. 
Page  28
-
27
-
3. 
Carrying out of minor rehabilitation works in selected transfer terminals listed in 
the Implementation Letter.  
Part B
:
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contracting
Carrying out, under the terms of six (6) CREMA Contracts, of rehabilitation 
works (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing, or asphalt concrete overlaying, all within 
the existing right of way) and/or maintenance works for approximately 981 kilometers on 
the Borrower’s national roads, as listed in the Implementation Letter. 
Part C
:
Departmental Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Carrying out of annual rehabilitation/periodic maintenance road programs (which 
meet the criteria set forth in the Implementation Letter) in Participating 
Departamentos
 
each year of Project implementation (which annual programs consist of resurfacing, 
asphalt concrete overlaying or reconstruction of the existing structure over a recycled 
base course, and providing periodic maintenance for approximately 9,000 kilometers of 
gravel roads (in the aggregate), as well as annual rehabilitation/periodic maintenance of 
bridges), all located within the territorial jurisdiction of the pertinent Participating 
Departamento
.
Part D
:
Transport Infrastructure Safety
Carrying out of a national road safety program, which program consists of, 
inter 
alia
:
(a) 
the illumination of selected national route sections in which a high 
number of accidents occur during nighttime; 
 
(b) 
the improvement of pavement markings and road signs in selected 
national routes; 
 
(c) 
the construction of foot/bike paths (within the existing right of way) to 
segregate and protect pedestrian and non-motorized traffic on selected national routes; 
and 
(d) 
the acquisition of road signals and barriers, as said investments and 
routes are listed in the Implementation Letter. 
 
Page  29
-
28
-
Part E
:
Transport Sector Management and Institutional Building
1. 
Design of MTOP’s transport infrastructure plan for the years 2005-2009, 
including the carrying out of engineering and economic studies, as needed, for the 
completion of said design. 
2. 
  Gradual implementation of the HDM-4 Model in DNV, including the provision 
of training to DNV’s personnel required therefor. 
3. 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s planning capacity to develop: 
 
(a) 
a plan to improve road maintenance practices in the Participating 
Departamentos
;
(b) 
a plan to establish future interior ports in Uruguay; 
 
(c) 
a master port plan for the 
Nueva Palmira
 port; and 
 
(d) 
individual plans for other ports within the Borrower’s territory, as 
approved by the Bank.  
4. 
Design of an urban transport master plan for the city of Montevideo. 
5. 
Preparation of a proposed Montevideo ring-road project, including but not 
limited to the carrying out of feasibility studies, environmental and social assessments 
and detailed designs of investments to be carried out under the proposed project, all as 
approved by the Bank. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2011. 
 
Page  30
-
29
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: 
 
(a) 
the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by 
 
(b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment 
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2010 through April 15, 2020 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  31
-
30
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  32
-
31
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
Without limitation to the provisions in Parts A and B of this Section the 
following additional provisions shall govern the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 
1. 
The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.  
2. 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding.  
3. 
Foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite for bidding to be registered 
with local authorities, provided, however, that the information to be requested from such 
bidders is of such nature that it will not discourage their participation.  
4. 
There shall be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in order 
for a contract to be subsequently awarded. 
5. 
After the public opening of bids, information relating to the examination, 
clarification and evaluation of bids and proposals and recommendations concerning 
awards shall not be disclosed to bidders or consultants or other persons not officially 
concerned with this process until the publication of contract award (except as provided in 
paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines).  
6. 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (
legalizar
)
their bidding 
documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Uruguayan 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding. 
Page  33
-
32
-
7. 
There shall be no preference for domestic contractors. 
8. 
The prices of contracts for consultants’ services over one year duration may be 
adjusted.  
9. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (
legalizar
)
their 
proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with Uruguayan authorities as a 
prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure. 
10. 
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions of interest, the evaluation reports of bids and proposals, and contract awards 
of all goods, works, and consultants’ services,  as the case may be, shall be published in a 
web page acceptable to the Bank, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
D. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; and 
(b) works (other than those works under Annual Departmental Road Rehabilitation and 
Maintenance Subprojects) estimated to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
all may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding. 
(b) 
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  34
-
33
-
2. Shopping
.
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000 equivalent per contract; 
and (b) works (other than those works under Annual Departmental Road Rehabilitation 
and Maintenance Subprojects) estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Force 
Account
.
Works under Annual Departmental Road Rehabilitation and 
Maintenance Subprojects which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Force 
Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality-and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Consultants’ services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
.
Consultants’ services for tasks in circumstances which 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Consultants’ services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval 
of the Bank. 
 
Page  35
-
34
-
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: 
 
(a) 
each contract for goods and works to be procured under Part A of 
Section II of this Schedule; 
 
(b) 
the first three contracts for goods to be procured under Part B.1 (a) of 
Section II of this Schedule;  
 
(c) 
the first three contracts for works (which shall include within those three 
contracts at least one contract for works under a CREMA Subproject) to be procured 
under Part B.1 (b) of Section of this Schedule; 
 
(d) 
the first two contracts to be procured under Part B.2 of Section II of this 
Schedule irrespective if said contracts are for goods only or for works only, or  a 
combination of the two types of contracts in the aggregate; and 
 (e) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more or selected on a sole source basis. In addition, 
with respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the qualifications and experience of 
all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank. All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Page  36
-
35
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement 
 
The Subsidiary Agreement shall contain, 
inter alia
,
the following provisions: 
 
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower to promptly provide the necessary funds 
to CVU to enable CVU to carry out Part A.2 of the Project as provided in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
the obligation of CVU: 
(i) 
to carry out Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with the 
pertinent provisions of this Agreement; 
(ii) 
to comply with the obligations referred to in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of Part A.2 of the Project; 
(iii) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower to 
comply with its obligations under Sections 3.04 (a) and (b), 3.06 
(a) (ii), 3.07 (a), 3.09, 3.14, 4.01, 4.02 and 5.01 of this 
Agreement;  
(iv) 
to participate in the reviews referred to in Section 3.12 (c) of this 
Agreement; and 
(v)  
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to 
enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Page  37
-
36
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Terms and Conditions of the Annual Arrangements 
 
Each Annual Arrangement shall contain, 
inter alia
,
the following provisions: 
(a) 
(i) 
the obligation of the Borrower to promptly provide the necessary 
funds to each Participating 
Departamento
 to enable the same to 
carry out their respective Annual Departmental Road 
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subproject as provided in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; and 
(ii) 
the right of the Borrower to take remedial action against any 
Participating 
Departamento
 which fails to comply with any of 
the provisions of its respective Annual Arrangement (which 
actions may include but not limited to the suspension of Loan 
disbursements against the defaulting Participating 
Departamento
); and 
 
(b) 
the obligation of each Participating 
Departamento
:
(i) 
to carry out their respective Annual Departmental Road 
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subprojects in accordance with 
the pertinent provisions of this Agreement; 
(ii) 
to comply with the obligations referred to in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of each Annual Departmental Road 
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subproject; 
(iii) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower to 
comply with its obligations under Sections 3.06 (a) (ii), 3.07 (a), 
3.10, 3.14, 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(iv) 
to participate in the reviews referred to in Section 3.12 (c) of this 
Agreement; and 
Page  38
-
37
-
(v)  
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to 
enforce the Annual Arrangement Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
 
