Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1435 
Project Name 
UY Transport Infrastructure Maintenance and Rural Access 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Roads and highways (60%);Sub-national government 
administration (15%);Ports, waterways and shipping 
(15%);Central government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P057481 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Transport and Civil Works (MTOP) 
Uruguay 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 19, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 14, 2005  
Date of Board Approval 
June 7, 2005 
1. 
Country and sector issues 
General Economic Context 
Between 1999 and 2001 Uruguay endured a prolonged economic recession that ended in a deep 
crisis in 2002. The slowdown was prompted by several external shocks: Brazilian devaluation 
(1999), foot and mouth disease outbreak (2001), and weak commodity prices and oil price 
increases. However, it was the Argentine debt, currency and financial crisis of 2002 that 
triggered the crisis and output collapse in Uruguay. As a result, income inequality and 
unemployment rose (the latter increased from 11.4 percent in 1999 to 19.7. percent in late 2002), 
and the fiscal situation deteriorated (fiscal deficit increased from 1 percent of GDP in the 1990s 
to 4 percent in 2001).
 1
 Furthermore, a sharp devaluation of the peso in 2002 worsened public 
debt indicators because a large share of both domestic and foreign debt was held in dollars. The 
fiscal pressures exerted by the crisis together with a traditionally large participation of the public 
sector in the provision of infrastructure services, adversely affected their delivery and 
consequently, the competitiveness of the economy.  
After four years in which GDP declined by nearly 20 percent, Uruguay’s economy bounced 
back, growing by 2.5 percent in 2003 and accelerating further at a rate of 12.3 percent in 2004. In 
addition, after two consecutive years of negative growth, merchandise exports grew at annual 
rates of 18.1 percent in 2003 and 37.8 percent (est.) in 2004, reaching a projected value of US$ 
3.03 billion (FOB value) at the end of that year.
2
Now that the crisis appears to have subsided, 
the Government of Uruguay (GOU) intends to move forward with its development strategy by 
1
Country Assistance Strategy for the Oriental Republic of Uruguay July 25, 2002, Report No. 24410 UR. 
2
World Bank staff estimates 
Page  2
reinforcing and upgrading transport infrastructure in order to: handle the expected increase in 
trade with Mercosur, resuming its pre-crisis levels, and with other world regions; enhance the 
competitiveness of the growing forestry and agricultural sectors, which account for an important 
share of the Country’s GDP and exports; and increase the attractiveness of Uruguay as a 
distribution and logistics center for Mercosur.
 
Exports have increased considerably as a result of a good external environment and the currency 
devaluation. The share of exports of goods and services as a percentage of GDP has continuously 
increased from 21.9 percent in 2002 to a projected 29.9 percent in 2004, indicating the growing 
importance of export competitiveness for economic growth. Moreover, after four years of 
continuous decline, the value of Uruguayan exports to Mercosur countries rebounded strongly in 
2003 and 2004.
3
Transport infrastructure improvements are critical for facilitating important foreign direct 
investment in the forestry sector and in supporting the expansion of exports. In the last three 
years, agricultural production has increased significantly, while in the forestry sector, pioneer 
investments involving some of the largest firms in the world have been made or are in progress. 
Eufores, a leading Spanish company, invested over US$100 million in the development of 
forestry plantations, the logistical terminal of M’Bopicuá and Peñarol’s and Fray Bentos 
chipping plants. Botnia, a Finnish company, has recently announced an investment in a new 
cellulose plant in Uruguay worth US$ 1 billion (around 1 percent of GDP). The proposed plant 
would multiply the volume of production eight fold and generate an important increase in the 
demand for transport.  
The transport sector is already an important part of the Uruguayan economy. In 2003, the value 
added of transport services amounted to US$ 1.09 billion, equivalent to 7 percent of the 
Uruguayan GDP. Road transport (freight and passengers) and waterborne transport accounted for 
2.8 percent and 2.6 percent of GDP respectively. Furthermore, the transport and 
telecommunications and construction sectors employ 6.5 percent and 6.2 percent of the total 
working population.
4
The transport sector alone employs more than 6,300 people directly in the 
public agencies at the national level (ANP, AFE, MTOP, and PLUNA).
5
Transport infrastructure development can have a positive impact in economic growth and income 
inequality in Uruguay by enhancing the competitiveness of producers, facilitating international 
trade, and generating opportunities for growth within the same transport and logistics sector. 
According to a recent study by 
Calderón and Servén
 (2004), even for Uruguay, whose stock and 
quality of infrastructure are high by LAC standards, raising the level of infrastructure 
development to that of South Korea (the median of the East Asia and Pacific Region), would 
increase Uruguay’s economic growth rate by 2.6 percentage points per year (1.7 due to greater 
3
Despite the increase, the region’s share in total exports has continued to decline, falling from 55 percent in 1998 to an estimated 
24 percent in 2004. It is also important to point out that at least part of the more than doubling of the share of exports to non-
Mercosur countries is likely to be maintained over time, implying a shift in the traffic through ports (see issues section)
 
4
Central Bank of Uruguay (2000) 
5
Central Bank of Uruguay (2003) 
Page  3
stocks and 0.9 percent due to better quality) and would reduce the Country’s Gini coefficient by 
0.06 (where 0.04 would be due to higher quantity and 0.02 to enhanced quality).
6
Sector context and Government Strategy 
Transport infrastructure in Uruguay consists of the road and railway networks, fluvial and 
maritime ports and access channels, and airports. The Ministry of Transport and Public Works 
(MTOP) is in charge of the sector. In the last 8 years, the MTOP embarked on a major reform for 
modernizing the transport sector that included: (i) reorienting the functions of transport agencies 
towards policy making, planning, regulation and control, rather than execution activities; and (ii) 
allowing for increased private sector participation (PSP) in the sector through outsourcing and 
concessions. On the whole, the reforms have succeeded in improving the quality of transport 
infrastructure and services, as may be measured by the condition of the road network and its 
weathering of the crisis and by the important improvements in port productivity and costs.  
Roads 
Road infrastructure
.
The road system in Uruguay consists of an estimated 70,732 road 
kilometres (km), of which 8,732 km form the national network managed by the National 
Directorate of Highways (DNV) within the MTOP; and 62,000 km are departmental roads. 
About 7,743 km (11 percent) of the road network is paved. The low proportion of paved roads as 
a
percentage of the total network length reflects the fact that the level and composition of traffic 
do not warrant a large extension of asphalt roads in the regions outside Montevideo. When only 
the national or primary network is considered, the proportion of paved roads increases to 89 
percent, higher than of Argentina, Chile and Brazil. With the highest density (21.4 km per 1,000 
inhabitants) and coverage (401.4 km per 1,000 km
2
)
in the LAC region, the Uruguayan road 
network provides good accessibility to most locations in the Country.  Within the national 
network, there are also 778 bridges with a total length of about 60,000 meters. In 2004, the total 
value of national road assets (sum of the monetary value of individual road segments accounting 
for their present condition) amounted to US$ 2.14 billion.
7
The departmental road network comprises about 62,000 km of unpaved roads, of which more 
than half are gravel roads with year-round accessibility, and the remainder are earth roads. 
Departmental governments (
Departamentos
)
manage this network. Under the Departmental 
Roads Maintenance Program (DRMP), MTOP is assisting departments in coping with the 
maintenance backlog of their networks and building up institutional capacity at 
Departamentos.
 
Infrastructure condition
.
Most of the road network and bridges along the national road network 
were built in the early part of the last century.  In particular, 45 percent of all bridges in the 
national road network are more than 50 years old, and 75 percent of bridges are more than 25 
years old. Also, as a result of the budgetary constraints imposed by the crisis, and despite the 
high priority given to maintenance, road condition started to deteriorate again after 2001. The 
percentage of the road network in very good condition dropped to 19 percent and the percentage 
6
Calderón and Servén (2004), “The Effects of Infrastructure Development on Growth and Income Distribution”, the World 
Bank.
 
7
0.65 percent below the median of the maximum theoretical and minimum admissible values as defined per 
ECLAC’s methodology. 
Page  4
Road network value
2154
2105
2130
2
169
2151
2
143
2196
2197
2095
2145
2040
2060
2080
2100
2120
2140
2160
2180
2200
2220
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
Year
U
S
$
m
i
l
l
i
o
n
s
Median Value
Current Value
Road network condition
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
Year
P
e
r
c
e
n
t
a
g
e
Good / Fair
Poor
in poor condition increased to 33 percent in 2003. Many maintenance contracts with the private 
sector could not be implemented and the standards of force account maintenance had to be 
reduced in order to meet MTOP budgetary restrictions. As a result, the value of road assets has 
also fallen from its peak of US$ 2.23 billion in 2000 to US$ 2.14 billion in 2004, below its 
median value. This indicates that, despite the consistency of the reforms and the policy of 
absolute priority to maintenance, the lack of investment inevitably results in a reduction in the 
value of road assets.  
Figure 1: Evolution of the Road Network Condition and Value
8
Infrastructure use
.
International road cargo traffic reached a peak in 2000, when 3 million tons 
were transported across border crossings, but dropped markedly to about 1.8 million tons in 2002 
as a result of the crisis. However, road cargo traffic is starting to show signs of recovery with 2 
million tons mobilized in 2003. Passenger traffic in inter-urban road transport routes also 
increased from 16.4 million in 2002 to 18.6 million in 2003.  
Road safety
.
With support from the Bank and the IDB, the GOU has implemented actions aimed 
at improving road safety, such as the installation of signalling and safety equipment on roads, 
and the development of campaigns to educate motorists on the importance of observing traffic 
rules. It appears that these actions have had positive results as accidents in the surveyed network 
(5,000 km or 58 percent of the national road network) went down from 1914 in 2000, to 1365 in 
2003, while fatalities decreased from 168 to 132 over the same period. However, these numbers 
do not capture the high occurrence of traffic accidents in other sections of the network and in 
many urban municipalities (such as the Montevideo Metropolitan Region), where most fatalities 
take place and traffic accidents are considered a recurring public health problem.  
Government strategy. 
The GOU road management strategy is based upon the use of performance 
based instruments, including: (i) private sector participation (PSP) mechanisms, such as road 
concessions, performance-based maintenance contracts, and maintenance micro-enterprises (see 
Box 1); (ii) the “
Megaconcession
”, an innovative scheme for channeling funding towards the 
performance-based maintenance of key sections of the network (See Box 2); and (iii) an output-
based maintenance scheme for departmental roads. In the absence of dedicated funds, the first 
8
Source: National Directorate of Highways (DNV) 
Page  5
two instruments have proven to be successful in securing road user charges and channeling them 
toward the cost-effective maintenance of the most important sections of the road network. The 
GOU plans to continue with the use of these mechanisms to increase efficiency in maintenance 
operations and protect the funds allocated to maintenance from the volatility of the national 
budget and under funding of the road sector.  
Box 1                                                                                                                                                                           
Private sector participation (PSP) in the Road Sector 
Previous Bank projects supported the renewal of the DNV, gradually shifting its role from the direct implementation 
of maintenance programs, to contracting out these activities with the private sector and delegating force account to 
field districts. The reorganization enabled DNV to increase the efficiency of maintenance operations under force 
account while gradually replacing these arrangements with more cost-effective contracts with the private sector.  
Currently, around 42 percent of the network managed by DNV is being maintained under contract in some form of 
partnership with the private sector. 
a) 
Traditional outsourcing of maintenance activities.
 Routine maintenance activities have been outsourced to the 
private sector through performance based contracts covering around 350 km of the national road network. This 
mechanism has been very effective in ensuring compliance with contractual conditions and in creating 
knowledge and benchmarks that have allowed improving the productivity of maintenance operations. 
b) 
Contracts for Rehabilitation and Maintenance (CREMA).
 Since 1998, the DNV has contracted out maintenance 
through CREMAs. These are multi-year (four to five year) performance based contracts between the DNV and 
a
private contractor that obligate the latter to undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and maintenance works 
as a single package, from design and programming through execution. At the end of 2003, 856 km of the road 
network had been rehabilitated and were being maintained under CREMA contracts.  
c) Micro 
enterprises.
 In order to minimize the negative impact of the retrenchment program and introduce greater 
efficiency in maintenance operations, the DNV started a pilot program to outsource routine maintenance to 
micro-enterprises formed by its former employees and due to its success, the program became permanent. 
Maintenance contracts have been extended and some of the micro-enterprises now compete with larger firms. In 
2004, 1,613 km of the DNV’s network are being maintained by micro-enterprises with positive results in terms 
of the quality of maintenance standards.
 
d) 
Concessions.
 From 1994, MTOP granted concessions on the highways that had traffic levels which justified a 
self-sustained private operation. In general, those are the sections nearest to Montevideo on the main highways 
accessing it. Around 600 km have been conceded and another 600 km are under study. Concessions have had a 
satisfactory performance and allowed collecting tolls from international transit traffic using those transit 
corridors.
 
As for the 
Megaconcession
,
the GOU strategy aims at strengthening it and enabling it to raise 
private financing through the fiduciary trust scheme (See Box 2). The fiduciary trust has already 
been designed and potential investors have shown interest in the proposed financing structure 
and a certain tolerance for the embedded risks. The current administration is analyzing options to 
implement the fiduciary trust. 
 
Page  6
Box 2                                                 
T
he Megaconcession
 
In addition to the concessions already granted, no road sections remained that could support a concession on the sole 
basis of user charges through tolls. With this in mind, the MTOP created the 
Megaconcession
 by separating a sub-
network of primary roads consisting of 1,272 km (15 percent of the network) from DNV management, and assigning 
its maintenance and operation to a different public entity through a standard concession contract. The contract was 
awarded to the National Development Corporation -
Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo 
(CND)-, which in turn 
assigned the contract to a special subsidiary entity: The National Road Corporation - 
Corporacion Vial del Uruguay
 
(CVU) -, an entity vested with legal personality. According to the contract, the concessionaire must finance its 
operations through tolls and a government monthly payment consisting of: (i) a fixed payment per km of road 
maintained; (ii) a payment for the maintenance of structures; and (iii) a minimum revenue guarantee.  The CVU 
contracts out all its activities (toll collection, maintenance, and works) with the private sector and the DNV provides 
technical support the CVU and exercises fiduciary control over its activities, much in the way an IFI does with the 
recipient of a loan. 
The goals of the
 Megaconcession 
are to: (i) secure user charges to finance a sub-network of the DNV-managed road 
network; (ii) foster commercial and performance-based management practices; and (iii) increase private financing of 
the sector. Since its creation, the Megaconcession has not yet been able to raise funds from private sources. The 
main reason for this inability has t
o
do with the country’s economic crisis and the government’s loss of investment 
grade in 2002, which made it very difficult to raise new financing. Another reason is that being financed in part by 
MTOP allocations, the reliability of its financial structure is not sufficiently reassuring for private investors. In order 
to address this concern, the CVU has proposed the establishment of a fiduciary trust to serve as a Special Purpose 
Vehicle (SPV) for the securitization of the 
Megaconcessio
n
future toll revenues. This solution would involve 
isolating the cash flows generated by toll collection and channeling them to the SPV, which would in turn issue 
securities backed only by those flows. Only the investors would have recourse to the funds managed by the fiduciary 
trust. 
The GOU will also continue supporting the Departmental Road Maintenance Program to 
enhance the technical capacity and operational efficiency of participating 
Departamentos
,
increase the quality of maintenance works, and ensure year-round accessibility for key sections 
of the rural road network. The program entails annual routine and periodic maintenance of about 
9,000 and 1,500 km of roads, respectively.   
The current administration has also emphasized the importance of improving urban mobility and 
eliminating the bottlenecks impeding the flow of goods through transport gateways (ports and 
international corridors) located within or in close proximity of urban agglomerations, particularly 
the Montevideo Metropolitan Area (MMA). In this respect, the GOU strategy consists of 
developing a master plan for the improvement of urban transport and the implementation of 
compatible investments in urban infrastructure, and the reorganization of cargo traffic and 
improvement of road access through the construction of a by-pass to the city of Montevideo and 
in general improving access to ports. Finally, the current administration is also seeking to scale 
up efforts to improve road safety, particularly through the continuation of minor infrastructure, 
signaling and illumination works in suburban areas. 
Ports 
Page  7
Port infrastructure
.
The port system is composed by commercial (cargo and passengers), fishing, 
recreational, and specialized liquid bulk terminals. The country’s main commercial ports are: 
Montevideo, Nueva Palmira, Fray Bentos, Colonia, and Juan Lacaze. The GOU, through the 
National port Administration (ANP), owns and operates all these port installations, and has a 
minority participation in the new container terminal in Montevideo. The private sector owns and 
operates a container terminal in Montevideo, a bulk terminal at the port of Nueva Palmira and 
the recently inaugurated port of M’Bopicua. The National Directorate of Hidrography (DNH) at 
the MTOP manages small commercial, recreational and fishing ports, including: La Paloma, 
Piriápolis, Punta del Este, Carmelo, Puerto Sauce and Higueritas. La Paloma is the main fishing 
port, currently serving the industries established there and some naval installations. 
Infrastructure use.
 
The volume of cargo mobilized through Uruguayan ports has moved on an 
upward trend since the reform of 1993. Between 2002 and 2003, cargo traffic in Uruguay’s main 
ports experienced an increase of 25 percent, the largest annual increase in the last 5 years. In 
2003, cargo traffic in the Uruguayan port system (Montevideo and interior ports) totaled 8.3 
million tons. In terms of the volume of freight handled, the Port of Montevideo is by far the most 
important with 4.5 million tons mobilized in 2003.  As for containers, in the same year, 
Montevideo handled 210,401 boxes, equivalent to 333,871 TEU (Twenty-foot Equivalent 
Units).
9
The second most important port in terms of cargo traffic is Nueva Palmira with 1.3 
million tons handled at the public terminal operated by the ANP. Finally, the Port of Fray Bentos 
handled 510 thousand tons, of which 450 thousand were forestry products bound for export 
markets. After three years of decline, in 2003, passenger traffic in the port of Colonia recovered 
somewhat, reaching 810 thousand passengers; while, passenger traffic in the interior ports 
continued on the rise, particularly in Carmelo and Nueva Palmira. 
Infrastructure condition and safety.
 Some public terminals have deteriorated considerably as a 
result of the lack of maintenance and the postponement of necessary investments due to 
budgetary constraints. Some cargo terminals, such as Fray Bentos and Montevideo, need to be 
upgraded in order to avoid capacity constraints resulting from increased demand. On the other 
hand, some passenger and fishing ports, such as La Paloma and Piriápolis, are in need of urgent 
minor rehabilitation works, as the condition of infrastructure is becoming a significant threat to 
user safety. Finally, there is also need to improve land access to some ports and improve their 
connection to the railway and road system. 
Government strategy
.
Uruguay is currently shifting from a model in which ANP owned and 
operated the port - a service port model - into a model in which ANP owns the infrastructure 
(quays, docks, storage yards) and is in charge of its management, while private firms may own 
the assets of the port superstructure (cranes, shed, office buildings) – a landlord port model. The 
new model has been largely successful in achieving higher levels of operational efficiency, 
reducing tariffs, and increasing private investment in port infrastructure and services, not only in 
Montevideo but also in the ports of the interior. However, there are still many challenges that the 
new administration will face, including: space and access constraints in Montevideo, 
infrastructure maintenance and dredging needs, the need to develop business oriented plans for 
9
Overall, the number of containers has increased by 160 percent and the number of TEUs has multiplied threefold 
since 1993, the year after port sector reform 
Page  8
the interior ports, the promotion of value added services, and the full transition of Montevideo to 
a
landlord model.  
Addressing these challenges will require undertaking key investments in infrastructure to avoid 
capacity constraints, strengthening planning and regulatory capacity in the MTOP, promoting the 
development of the interior ports, and encouraging a commercial orientation in partnership with 
the private sector to improve the supply of value-added services and increase competition. The 
current administration strategy aims at addressing these challenges by: (i) preparing development 
plans for the ports of Neva Palmira, Fray Bentos, and La Paloma; (ii) reducing the maintenance 
backlog and undertaking minor rehabilitation works in smaller commercial ports; and (iii) 
making necessary investments to avoid capacity constraints, particularly the dredging of access 
channels. 
Issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
 
Based on the economic and sector context, the main issues on which the Government requires 
support in order to advance its strategy, can be summarized as follows: 
a) 
The competitiveness of Uruguay’s exports depends upon the maintenance over time 
of the functionality, condition, and level of integration of transport infrastructure 
(roads, ports and railways)
.
The products that drive Uruguay’s economic growth 
(agricultural and forest products) are transport-intensive, due to their nature (high volume 
and low price per ton) or because production centers are relatively distant from the main 
export gateways. While roads continue to be a top priority, ports and railways are 
attaining increasing importance as extra-regional markets gain in weight and the demand 
for forest products transport increases. In addition, solutions to improve urban mobility 
(by-passes, signaling works, and urban transport systems) are also gaining importance as 
means to enhance access to key infrastructure that is in close proximity to cities (main 
road corridors and ports), maintain functionality of the main infrastructure by avoiding the 
interference of urban agglomerations, and improve safety. The proposed project would 
assist the GOU in reducing the backlog of maintenance and preserving the functionality, 
condition, and integration of transport infrastructure by financing: (i) the enhancement of 
crucial transport links, (ii) the elimination of infrastructure bottlenecks; (iii) the 
improvement of departmental roads to ensure that rural producers have access to the main 
road corridors; and (iv) innovative mechanisms and management practices to preserve 
infrastructure assets in a cost-efficient manner.    
b) 
Recent levels of expenditure are not sufficient to ensure the adequate conservation of 
road assets and maintain the level-of-service attained after several years of efforts. A 
policy of maintenance only cannot be sustained indefinitely
.
The success of a policy 
that gives priority to maintenance was clearly demonstrated during the crisis and should 
continue to be the cornerstone of any road sector strategy in the country. However, a 
certain amount of rehabilitation is necessary to preserve the value of road assets. So far, 
PSP mechanisms have proven to be successful in securing road user charges and 
channeling them toward the cost-effective maintenance of the most important sections of 
the network and allowing the DNV to weather the crisis in a remarkable way. 
Nonetheless, in the short term, the conservation of road assets to the level attained could 
Page  9
be jeopardized if reforms are not consolidated and the level of expenditure is not raised. 
The proposed project would continue to support the use of PSP mechanisms, such as 
CREMA contracts, as they are indispensable for improving performance and ensuring a 
stable flow of financing for road maintenance, even in times of budgetary constraint. The 
project would also provide the current administration with the resources needed to 
undertake key investments to preserve the value of road assets and reduce the maintenance 
backlog. Uruguay has a significant amount of good quality road assets, so no urgent large 
investments are needed. These could only be envisaged if surpluses of resources are 
obtained but in the short-term, all investments should aim at enhancing regional physical 
integration and export competitiveness. 
 
c) 
The Megaconcession has had positive results but needs to be consolidated to achieve 
its purpose of levying funds from sources other than the budget and so further 
stabilizing the sector
.
The sustainability of the 
Megaconcession
 will depend on its ability 
to secure steady financing from sources other than those of the budget, so that MTOP 
resources may be directed to other parts of the road network. Since its creation, the 
Megaconcession
 has not yet been able to raise funds from private sources. One of the 
reasons may be that being financed by MTOP allocations, the reliability of its financial 
structure is not sufficiently reassuring for private investors. The proposed project would 
provide steady and reliable financing to the 
Megaconcession
 for a short period, enabling it 
to attain its rehabilitation and maintenance goals, and contributing to an enabling 
environment that would put it in a better position to raise funds from other sources.
 
d) 
Despite continued efforts, and given that Uruguay is a transit country between Brazil 
and Argentina, further upgrades to international corridors are still needed to 
eliminate bottlenecks to international road freight transport
.
Despite the recent crisis, 
it is expected that in the short term the level of trade and freight transport will resume its 
pre-crisis level. Therefore, remaining bottlenecks in international corridors, such as 
bridges or other infrastructure not meeting Mercosur standards, will translate into 
bottlenecks to international freight transport.
 
The proposed project would concentrate on 
the rehabilitation of sections and bridges that are not up to Mercosur standards and hinder 
the passage of trucks of loads higher than 22 tons. 
 
e) 
Agricultural development poles require adequate road access to major corridors
.
In 
recent years agricultural development poles (cattle, milk, rice, and soy bean) have 
emerged in different areas of the Country and agricultural and livestock production has 
accelerated noticeably.
10
 The diverging nature of the demands that these developments 
have imposed on the Departmental road network of secondary and tertiary roads has 
warranted an approach on two levels by the GoU. Firstly, through the design of specific 
programs for the maintenance of some agricultural pole networks, such as the “
Cuenca 
Lechera
”; and secondly, through continued support to the 
Departamentos
 under the 
Departmental Road Maintenance Program (DRMP). The variety of problems encountered 
in each Department, and with each type of activity due to their differing nature will 
require the consolidation and expansion of the capacity and ability of 
Departamentos 
to 
10
 According to the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fishery (MGAP), agricultural GDP increased by an estimated 13.2 
percent between 2003 and 2004, for a cumulative increase of 36 percent between 2001 and 2004. 
Page  10
plan, develop, and execute specific road programs adapted to each situation. The proposed 
project would continue its support to the DRMP, enhancing the capacity of 
Departamentos
 to deal with specific maintenance programs for roads that support 
agricultural development poles. In addition, the proposed project would support the GOU 
in ensuring that key transfer terminals are fully prepared to handle increased demand 
coming from exiting and new development poles. 
f) 
Future increase of freight traffic due to forest products extraction and transport will 
strain the capacity of existing infrastructure.
 At the end of 2003, the forest planted area 
totaled 670,042 Ha, reaching the critical mass of raw material supply that makes viable 
industrial processing at an economically- feasible scale. It is expected that the expansion 
of currently existing processing plants and the establishment of new ones with foreign 
capital will increase the demand for transport of raw materials and finished products and 
cause a significant deterioration of existing infrastructure and impose high costs to the 
government and society in terms of transport operating costs.
 11
 Overall, the traffic of 
forestry products in the Uruguayan port system increased by 37% during 2003, thus 
becoming the main cargo shipped. Forest products traffic increased by 15% in Fray 
Bentos, 81% in Nueva Palmira, and 50% in Montevideo; and it is expected that it will 
continue to increase as new chipping plants are established in the country. The port of 
Fray Bentos has consolidated itself as the main port for the export of wood rolls. The 
private sector is already responding by developing forest products terminals outside of 
Montevideo, such as M’Bopicua. The proposed project will support the elaboration of 
master plans for the ports of Nueva Palmira and Fray Bentos to increase their commercial 
orientation, identify current and potential bottlenecks, and propose solutions to remove 
them. It will also accompany future expansion of terminal capacity with minor 
investments in transfer terminals and do not crowd-out private sector participation, but 
rather seek to continue leveraging and complementing private investment. The project 
recognizes the private sector role in the recent developments in the port sector, and a 
decision framework will be used to ensure that all investment financed by the project are 
in line with this principle. 
g) 
Despite important advances, and as the network continues to be upgraded and 
traffic increases, it is necessary to continue working on the improvement of road 
safety
.
In 2002, 1 percent of deaths were attributed to road traffic injuries in Uruguay, 
compared to the average of 2.2 percent for LAC and lower to middle income countries. 
Although low when compared to other LAC countries, traffic accidents and mortality rates 
in Uruguay remain higher than those reported in the developed world. The number of road 
accidents and fatalities per 10,000 vehicles stand at 23 and 4.7, respectively; considerably 
higher than those reported for OECD countries, where on average there are around 10 
accidents and between 1.2 and 2.5 fatalities per 10,000 vehicles. Moreover, road safety in 
Uruguay is a matter of concern as road accidents have high social cost as the leading 
cause of mortality among young population. Road accidents continue to be the leading 
cause for death in the 15-29 age group, where the rate of road fatalities per 100,000 
population is around 19 percent for males. In 2002, this age group accounted for around 
26 percent of road accident related deaths. The high incidence of accidents related to 
Page  11
vehicles going off-road and collisions indicate the need to keep on working on the 
improvement of signalling. The proposed project would continue to assist the DNV in 
improving road illumination, signalling, and lane markings to reduce accidents. 
 
2. Description 
The overall cost of the proposed project is now estimated at US$100 million of which US$89.8 
million correspond to the infrastructure components (90 percent) and the remaining US$9.5 
million to the institutional strengthening and road safety components. The Bank would finance 
US$70 million (including the front-end-fee), and the GOU the remaining US$30 million (see 
Annex 6 for a detailed project cost table). To support the stated objectives the project would 
consist of the following components (costs include physical and price contingencies):
 
Component 1: Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$44.6 million, including 
contingencies).
 This component is fundamental in restoring the service levels of strategic 
transport infrastructure, whose condition constrain the efficient provision of transport services, in 
particular, the transit of heavier and larger trucks loaded up to Mercosur standards. The transport 
infrastructure that has been selected corresponds to links between major economic poles and 
export markets and transfer terminals supporting key economic activities. This component entails 
carrying out reinforcement, replacement, and rehabilitation works and will be subdivided into 
three subcomponents:  
Subcomponent (A) DNV Managed Routes (US$8.4 million, including contingencies)
.
Consists 
of the: (a) rehabilitation works consisting of  reinforcing the pavement structures of : (i) about 15 
km between ex-national Route 3 and 
–km
594.100 on national Route 3; and (ii) about 20 km 
between Rio Tacuarí-Cañada Santos on national Route 18; these sections are part of international 
corridors. 
 
Subcomponent (B) CVU Managed Routes and Bridges (US$27.6 million, including 
contingencies).
 It consists of the (a) rehabilitation works consisting of reinforcing the pavement 
structures of: (i) 5 km of National route 1, between km144 and National route 22; about 16 km of 
National route 1, between the km 144 and National route 2; and about 3 km of the La Planta 
Urbana de Young section on national Route 3; and (b) carrying out of reconditioning works 
consisting of strengthening, widening or replacing the existing structures of 20 bridges located 
on national Routes 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 21, 26, 28, 30 and 200 (Interbalnearia route) and the access to 
Montevideo.
 
Subcomponent (C) Transfer Terminal Rehabilitation (US$8.6 million, including 
contingencies).
 
Transfer terminals have deteriorated considerably as a result of the lack of 
maintenance and the postponement of necessary new investments due to budgetary constraints. 
This component consists of minor infrastructure rehabilitation works in several terminals. These 
interventions are needed to adequately respond to the new demands for the inter-modal 
transportation of freight and of passengers. The proposed works to be financed are minor 
investments in several terminals. In order, to adequately address the pertinence of each proposed 
investment a framework to screen the candidate investments will be used. The proposed 
Page  12
framework will include the following criteria that must be met by the investments in order to 
qualify for financing ; (i) the individual investments must be aligned with the overall objectives 
of this project; (ii) the specific investments must not reduce the possibility private participation; 
(iii) adequate economic evaluation; (iv) compliance with MTOP’s port environmental 
assessment manual; 
Component 2: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contracting (CREMA contracts) 
(US$24.85 million, including contingencies).
 
This component entails carrying out rehabilitation 
and maintenance works in six road sub-networks covering an estimated 981 km of national roads 
through performance-based CREMA contracts. The sub-networks under each contract comprise 
different pavement types and service conditions. The contracts to be financed under the proposed 
project cover six networks: (i) National route 3 (between National route 1 and Paso del Puerto, 
about 243 km); (ii) National route 5 (between km 97-Paso de los Toros, 184 km); (iii) road 
access to Montevideo (85 km); (iv) Canelones center west sub-network (130 km); (v) Canelones 
east sub-network (140 km); and (vi) tourist zone (200 km).
 
Component 3: Departmental Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$20.6 million, 
including contingencies).
 
The program consists of carrying out eligible annual departmental 
road rehabilitation and maintenance sub-projects executed by participating Departmental 
Governments
 
and partially funded by the DNV
 
through an annual performance based agreement. 
The departmental road maintenance program under the proposed project entails routine 
maintenance of about 9,000 km of gravel roads per year, including some periodic maintenance of 
roads and bridges. All departments in the country, excluding Montevideo, are expected to 
participate in the program and it should cover at least two years of the maintenance requirements 
for these roads, starting from calendar year 2006. 
Component 4: Transport Infrastructure Safety Program (US$3.8 million, including 
contingencies).
 
This component entails: (i) implementing low-cost measures to increase road 
safety, including roads passing through urban areas, following the experience with the Second 
Transport project; and (ii) acquisitions and installation of road safety elements.  
Component 5: Transport Sector Management and Institutional Building (US$5.8 million, 
including contingencies).
 
This component would entail: (i) assisting MTOP in the preparation 
of its transport infrastructure plan for years 2005-2009, including engineering and economic 
studies as needed; (ii) training for capacity building and provision of new tools (HDM-4 model);  
(iii) strengthening infrastructure management, including enhancing technical capacity at 
participating 
Departamentos
 and supporting the preparation of master plans for regional ports; 
(iv) assisting MTOP in the preparation of an urban transport program through the contracting of 
a
master plan for the Montevideo Metropolitan Area; and (v) feasibility studies, environmental 
assessments, and detailed design studies of the Montevideo ring-road and access roads project. 
 
5.  
 
Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 30 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
70 
Page  13
DEVELOPMENT 
 Total 
100 
 
6
Implementation 
 
Sector Policy Responsibility 
MTOP has the overall responsibility for the transport sector and the policy framework for project 
implementation. MTOP will lead the development and implementation of the reforms and 
oversee the execution of the institutional strengthening component. A specialized unit within 
MTOP, the Institute of Transport and Infrastructure Planning (IPTI), will provide support for the 
analysis of policy and fiscal perspectives in the road sector.  
 
Project Implementation
 
MTOP, through its National Directorate of Highways (DNV), National Directorate of Transport 
(DNT) and National Directorate of Hidrography (DNH), will have overall responsibility for most 
of project execution. DNV manages the National Highway Network and coordinates the 
Departmental Roads Maintenance Program. The DNH is in charge of port sector policy and 
planning and is also responsible for a wide range of activities, including: technical studies, 
maintenance of navigable waterways, hydraulic works, and the construction, maintenance and 
administration of the ports that are not under the jurisdiction of the National Port Authority 
(ANP). The ANP plays an advisory role in the formulation of sector policy, and manages the 
Country’s main ports: Montevideo, Nueva Palmira, Fray Bentos, Colonia, and Juan Lacaze
.
The 
DNT is in charge of regulating transport services in all modes; evaluating compliance with 
operational, technical and safety standards; and exercising control over service providers.
 
The sub-projects to be carried out within Component 1(B) – within the 
Megaconcession 
-
will be 
contracted by the CVU, as the holder of the concession contract signed between the MTOP and 
the CND. The CVU and the MTOP will sign a subsidiary agreement in which the CVU, as 
executor of the works, will explicitly adopt all commitments assumed by the MTOP as part of 
the loan agreement that will be subscribed for the current project (see project covenants).   
The Departmental Roads Maintenance program will be coordinated and supervised by the DNV.  
Annual departmental road rehabilitation and maintenance sub-projects will be carried out by the 
Departmental Governments
 
(municipal governments) who have jurisdiction over these roads.  
The program will be executed through the signing of annual agreements between the DNV and 
the participating Departments, in which these commit to executing maintenance works on 
eligible roads and improving the efficiency of their maintenance operations, and the DNV with 
the payment of an amount in accordance with their performance.
 
Project Coordination Unit
 
The PCU was established within MTOP for the execution of previous projects.  The PCU has the 
required institutional capacity to undertake the execution of the proposed project. The 
Page  14
Implementation Completion Report for the Second Transport Project judged that the PCU’s 
performance was satisfactory and that it had adequate financial reporting and auditing systems, 
and provided accurate and timely information.
 
Partnerships 
Although no explicit partnership agreement exists, The MTOP’s infrastructure strategy has been 
jointly supported by the Bank and IDB through the financing provided for the execution of 
Planes Quinquenales 
(five-year programs). Following this successful precedent, MTOP 
requested a US$77 million loan from the IDB (UR-L001), approved in October 2004, to finance 
a
program with a total cost of US$110 million. The program seeks to improve the priority 
corridors of the national road network to enhance competitiveness and foster regional 
integration. This loan supports GOU sector strategy and is in line with the Bank’s proposed 
project objectives, rendering it completely complementary. Overall, both loans together will 
cover about 50 percent of the 2005-2009 road program. 
7. Sustainability 
The sustainability of the project will depend on: (i) continued ownership of sector reform; and 
(ii) the timely implementation of rehabilitation and maintenance interventions.  
Ownership of sector reform  
The transport infrastructure sector reforms have benefited from a remarkable institutional 
continuity, a situation that has logically contributed to their success. Although Uruguay is 
renowned for its institutional stability, there is no guarantee that the new administration will feel 
as much ownership of the existing sector policy. Notwithstanding, the present project concept 
has been discussed with the new government authorities, who agreed on the project objectives 
and components and confirmed that the sector policy will be maintained. The general recognition 
of the success of the reforms introduced by MTOP, as well as the continuity of administrative 
and technical staff, reduce the likelihood of a major reversal in the way things are done. In 
addition, the need to be competitive within Mercosur, clearly perceived by the GOU, and its 
preoccupation with the development of new economic activities as a result of the agriculture and 
forestry expansion continue to be driving forces for further reform. Finally, discussions with the 
new administration have confirmed and consolidated this project design adding new emphasis in 
certain subcomponents to accommodate the new administration’s approach. 
Timely implementation
 
The sustainability of the project will also depend on the timely implementation of maintenance 
interventions to avoid a more pronounced deterioration of road assets, which may result in an 
unmanageable increase in maintenance needs. The project design seeks to make interventions 
sustainable by prioritising them according to traffic and road conditions through the Integrated 
Highway Planning System (SIPLA) and utilizing various approaches according to the type of 
network and of intervention, in order to make maintenance cost-efficient.
 
Given that timely 
implementation will, to a large extent, depend on a stable flow of funding, the project design 
Page  15
seeks to ensure the availability of funds by aligning investments with budgetary allocations for 
the sector under the 
Plan Quinquenal
 and supporting the promotion of increased private 
investment through the 
Megaconcession
,
as means of guaranteeing a steady flow of funds 
towards road maintenance. 
 
8
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
The proposed project design will take into account relevant lessons learned in prior projects and 
the Bank experience in Uruguay and in the region. Project execution will be greatly facilitated, 
especially in terms of procurement, project coordination and supervision, by the experience 
accumulated with the design and execution of previous transport projects in the Country. More 
specifically, the project design builds on lessons learned from the implementation of the First 
Transport Project (Loan 3021-UR), Second Transport Project (Loan 4395-UR), and the on-going 
Forest Product Transport Project (Loan 4204-UR), several Interamerican Development Bank 
(IDB) operations, and Bank experience in Uruguay and in the region. The performance of the 
Bank and borrower in the Second Transport Project was rated satisfactorily in the 
Implementation Completion Report; while the last Project Supervision Report of the Forest 
Product Transport Project considers progress in implementation and in the achievement of the 
project’s development objective as satisfactory. The resulting lessons learned reflected in project 
design are summarized below. 
Impact of funding constraints and fiscal policies in the pace of reform and project 
implementation
.
In the past, the decline in sector funding and uncertainties with regard to future 
levels of funding, forced the MTOP to slow down the implementation of various institutional 
initiatives that were being tested with promissory results. MTOP could not further expand 
activities for which there was strong interest among potential participants but an unclear ability 
to meet funding requirements on a timely basis. These included: the micro-enterprise program, 
performance agreements between DNV and some of its maintenance districts, and CREMA 
contracts. Scaling up these results-oriented experiences requires a more stable macroeconomic 
environment in which the volatility of funding decisions can be kept within reasonable margins. 
Although the economic crisis in Uruguay seems to have subsided, future budgetary backing can 
still be volatile. Therefore, the project has been designed so as to remain firmly anchored on 
infrastructure maintenance as the major emphasis, making the size and pace of expenditures 
consistent with recent historical trends. Infrastructure investments are prudent and correspond to 
necessary rehabilitation and periodic maintenance activities that are needed to remove 
bottlenecks in both roads and transfer terminals and preserve the value of infrastructure assets. In 
fact, the Uruguayan experience after 2001 showed that even a strict policy of prioritizing 
maintenance could not avoid the slight but progressive deterioration of road conditions, and that 
a
reasonable amount of more costly rehabilitation investments is needed after a certain point in 
time in order to avoid a decline in road asset value. 
Establishing minimum requirements for performance-based maintenance (CREMA) 
contracts to work successfully
.
The experience in Uruguay has shown that CREMA contracts 
are powerful instruments to carry out road maintenance and rehabilitation in an efficient and 
effective way, even in a situation of great budgetary pressure. The successful experience of 
MTOP in Uruguay reinforces the notion that for CREMA contracts to show their real potential, a 
Page  16
number of requirements must be given, namely: (i) regular up-to-date and accurate information 
on the state of the road network and definition of realistic service output standards; (ii) effective 
control of contract compliance; (iii) good supervision of works; and (iv) reasonable contract 
duration. In Uruguay, the average duration of the CREMA contracts was between four and five 
years, which is the minimum duration recommended in literature to reduce the risk of 
unsatisfactory quality in rehabilitation works. The proposed project will finance road 
rehabilitation and maintenance through CREMA contracts adhering to these minimum 
requirements.
 
Securing financing on a pluri-annual basis
.
Most of the CREMA contracts in Uruguay had 
been part of the STP, which, as mentioned above, guaranteed stable financing for
 
at
 
least part of 
the commitments and provided an incentive for the GOU to provide the necessary counterpart 
funds. Even with this arrangement the execution of one CREMA contract had to be postponed 
due to budget constraints, and delays occurred in the payment of the local component to 
contractors. This uncertainty regarding budget allocations is a strong deterrent for the 
implementation of contractual schemes that depend on credible funding arrangements and the 
perception of a high risk that the government might not honor its payment commitments, will 
certainly be reflected in the prices and could jeopardize the success of the instruments.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies  
 
Environmental classification
 
The project has been classified as “Category B”, following the Bank’s Operational Guidelines 
[OP 4.01], as no significant negative impacts that could jeopardize the natural environment of its 
area of influence are foreseen.  This classification takes into account the fact that the proposed 
project will support the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads, either paved (national 
road network) or unpaved (departmental road network), and consequently will not involve new 
heavy construction activities. The main issues that have to be considered to ensure an adequate 
environmental management the subprojects include: stabilizing slopes, recovering areas for the 
exploitation and deposit of materials, controlling existing erosion processes, and incorporating 
road safety measures. Prevention, mitigation and/or compensation measures for these issues are 
straightforward.
 
Environmental Assessment 
The Bank’s environmental assessment focused on the main aspects agreed upon with the Quality 
Assurance Team (QAT) of the Bank: (i) analysis of the mechanisms established to address the 
issues that trigger Bank safeguards; (ii) evaluation of the environmental management capacity of 
the executing agency; (iii) environmental evaluation of the first package of projects in each 
component; and (iv) and evaluation of overall compliance with the National Environmental 
Legislation (See Annex 11). The environmental evaluation for the road infrastructure 
components of the first package of subprojects was conducted by the Environmental Unit of the 
DNV and reviewed by the Bank as part of the project’s due diligence. Individual subprojects 
were evaluated using the screening methodology established in the QAT’s 
Guide for Rapid 
Page  17
Environmental and Social Evaluation of Road Projects,
 with the purpose of ensuring that 
environmental and social issues were appropriately considered in their design. This assessment 
determined that for one of the analyzed projects an 
Abbreviated Involuntary
 
Resettlement Plan
 
was required, and the environmental risk for the remaining projects was moderate for six, and 
low for the remaining sixteen. None of the projects have critical environmental and social risks. 
Therefore, the project is environmentally viable and fulfils the Bank’s Environmental Safeguards 
Policy
 
The environmental evaluation for the transfer terminal sub-components of the first package of 
subprojects was carried out by an independent consultant on behalf of DNH. Individual 
subprojects were evaluated using the screening methodology established for the project and 
based on  
Environmental Manual for Port Sector Activities and Project
 o
f
June 1988, developed by 
National Port Administration (ANP), and that was approved by the Bank (First transport Project) and has 
been adopted by DNH as reference until it generates its own guidelines. 
This assessment determined that for the first package of potentially nine minor works analyzed, 
all were categorized having low environmental and social risks. Therefore, the project is 
environmentally viable and fulfils the Bank’s Environmental Safeguards Policy
 
Involuntary Resettlement
 
This Policy is triggered because in a particular road section of Route 1 to be rehabilitated under 
the first component, needs a specific instrument to take into account a potential affectation of 
some properties resulting from the construction of a by-pass to Colonia Valdense. In this sense, 
DNV developed an 
Abbreviated Involuntary Resettlement Plan
 according to the Safeguard 
Policy of the Bank. This Plan has been published in the INFOSHOP according the Bank's rules. 
According to the census carried out as part of the Resettlement Plan, 11 families are concerned 
and 14 properties will be affected; consisting of 11 housing units, 3 hangars, 1 commercial 
establishment, and a unit once used as a tire replacement shop. Affected persons will be 
compensated for lost assets and relocation; the project files contain the general practice in 
Uruguay concerning the evaluation of compensation. According to the socioeconomic survey, 
the 63% of the families concerned had incomes above 5 minimum salaries, 27% between 2 and 3 
minimum salaries, and 9% just under 2 minimum salaries. Four of the eleven families concerned 
were renting (and had not been living in the area long), and the rest were relatively longtime 
residents. When interrogated on their view of the expropriation 55% said they will reconstruct 
their homes in the remainder of the property whilst 45% said they would move (this includes all 
the families that rent). The owners of the rented properties do not, according to the survey, have 
any particular difficulties with the potential expropriation. On the whole, the expropriation will 
not provoke significant resettlement only one owner-family would relocate, the others that will 
potentially relocate are renting.  
In addition, the Environmental Assessment indicates that there is no informal occupation of the 
right-of-way in any subproject, needing eventual resettlement. Furthermore, with the present 
level of detail known for other subprojects no further resettlement is foreseen.  
Cultural property policy
 
Page  18
According to the new guidelines, all projects involving civil works could trigger the cultural 
property policy.  Given this, even though there is no expectation that cultural property is in the 
project area, the Environmental Assessment sets forth "chance find" procedures in the case that 
such property is encountered. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [X] 
[ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
10. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
STAFF REPORTS 
 
Previous projects 
 
Project Appraisal Document. Second Transport Project (Loan No. 4395-UR). Oriental Republic 
of Uruguay. Report 18374-UR.August 26, 1998 
 
Project Appraisal Document. Forest Products Transport Project (Loan 42040).  Oriental Republic 
of Uruguay. Report No. 16398-UR. June 2, 1997. 
 
Staff Appraisal Report. First Transport Project (Loan 3021-UR).   Oriental Republic of Uruguay. 
Report No. 7290-UR. November 23, 1988. 
 
Implementation Completion Report on a Loan to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay for a Second 
Transport Project.  Report No. 28235. May 10, 2004.  
 
Implementation Completion Report on a Loan to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay for the First 
Transport Project. Report No. 18031.  June 19, 1998.  
 
Sector Notes 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  19
Economic Notes.  A Reform Agenda for the Uruguayan Transport Sector.  Rebelo, Jorge.  
August 1996.  
 
Transport Policy Notes, 1996-2004 and beyond. 
Rebelo, Jorge; Pizarro, Andrés; Pulido, Daniel; 
Martinez Juan Pablo.  
 
Uruguay Road Maintenance and Rural Access Project, Potential Bank Support to the 
Megaconcession
 of
Roadways. D. Pulido, June 2004  
 
Country Assistance Strategy 
 
Draft Country Assistance Strategy for the Oriental Republic of Uruguay. Report No. 31804-UY. 
March 24, 2005.  
 
Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Oriental Republic of Uruguay.  Report No. 
24410. July 25, 2002. 
 
Other Staff Reports 
 
The Rural Sector and Natural Resources in Uruguay. Report No.24409-UR June 2002.  
 
Uruguay Poverty Update. Report No.26223-UR. June 2004. 
 
Sources of Growth Study Concept Paper (Draft).  December 1, 2003. 
 
Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF). Port Sector Reform Toolkit. 
 
Draft Uruguay Public Expenditure Review. Efficiency, Equity and Affordability in 
Infrastructure. 2004 
 
MTOP REPORTS 
 
Project preparation and implementation reports 
 
Asesoría de Financiamiento Exterior MTOP-Banco Mundial.  Plan de Implementación del 
Proyecto de Mantenimiento de la Infraestructura de Transporte y Acceso Rural.  30 
de marzo de 2005. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Hidrografía (DNH).  Análisis de Prefactibilidad Económica (Terminales 
de Transferencia).  1 de abril de 2005. 
Page  20
Dirección Nacional de Hidrografía (DNH).  Reporte de Evaluación Ambiental de las Terminales 
de Transferencia.  1 de abril 2005. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Hidrografía (DNH).  Plan de Rehabilitación, Mantenimiento y Mejora de 
Obras Portuarias, Periodo 2006-2010: Descipción de Estudios y Obras.  Marzo 2005.  
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV).  Reporte de Evaluación Ambiental-Componente Vial.  
Revisado 31 de marzo de 2005. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV).  Proyecto de Mantenimiento de Infraestructura de 
Transporte y Acceso Rural – Reporte de Evaluación Ambiental.  18 de marzo de 
2005.  
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV) y Dirección Nacional de Topografía (DNT).  Proyecto 
Mantenimiento Infraestructura de Transporte y Acceso Rural – Plan de 
Reasentamiento Involuntario Abreviado.  25 de noviembre de 2004. Revisado 1 de 
Abril de 2005  
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV).  Estudio de Pre-Factibilidad Técnico – Económica, Ruta 
18: Río Tacuari – Cañada Santos.  Agosto 17, 2004. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV).  Programa: Transporte III Estudio de Pre-Factibilidad 
Técnico-Económica, Contrato de Mantenimiento Zona Turística (Regional 2 y 10).   
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV), Gerencia de Programación – Departamento 
Planificación.  Estudio de Pre-Factibilidad Técnico – Económica, Ruta 18: Río 
Tacuarí – Cañada Santos.   
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV). Gerencia de Construcciones, Dpto. de Infraestructura 
Vial Departamental.  Programa de Mantenimiento de la Red Vial Departamental, 
Anteproyecto de Mantenimiento de 9.000 Km. de Caminos Rurales.  Septiembre de 
2004. 
 
Corporación Nacional para el Desarrollo.  Contrato Mega Concesión. 
 
Other Reports 
 
Administración Nacional de Puertos (ANP), Plan Maestro del Puerto de Montevideo, 1999. 
 
Consorcio CSI-HAECON, Proyecto de Gestión Marítima Costera, 2002 
 
Dirección Nacional de Transporte (DNT), Anuario Estadístico del Sector Transporte, República 
Oriental del Uruguay, 2003. 
 
Page  21
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV), Dpto. Seguridad en el Transito, División Conservación.  
Anuario Estadístico de Transito 2003.   
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV) Departamento de Gestión del Mantenimiento, División 
Conservación.  Indicadores de Gestión 2003.  B. Carnales, Mieres, Gatto, Sánchez.  
Abril 2004. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV). Dpto. Gestión del Mantenimiento, División 
Conservación.  Informe de Gestión por Administración Año 2003, Periodo 1997-
2003.  Abril 2003. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV). Dpto. Gestión del Mantenimiento, División 
Conservación.  Indicadores de Gestión 2003.  Abril 2004. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV). Republica del Uruguay.  “Rendición de Cuentas 1998”. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV).  Gasto Total por Tarea, Año 2002.  30 de agosto 2004. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV).  Gestión de la Red Vial en la Republica de 
 Uruguay.  1998. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV).  Licitación Pública Internacional No.  /98. 
 
Mantenimiento por Contrato en Zona VII.  Tomo 1.  
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV), Órgano de Control de Contratos, División 
Conservación.  Contratos de Mantenimiento por Niveles de Servicio, Informe a Julio 
2002.   
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV).  Plan de Mantenimiento de la Red Vial Departamental.  
Noviembre 19, 1999. 
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV).  Sólido como la Roca (“pero sin perder jamás la 
ternura”).  5 Años Haciendo Obras 1995 – 1999.   
 
Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV).  Una Visión de la Red Vial en el Año 2000.  A. Aguerre.  
1998. 
 
MTOP. Plan Quinquenal de Transporte y Obras Publicas, Periodo 2000 – 2004.  Propuesta 
Presupuestal.  Agosto 2000. 
 
MTOP. Memoria Anual de la Presidencia de la Republica. 2002 y 2003.   
 
MTOP. Dirección Nacional de Vialidad.  Diseño de un Modelo de Planificación, Ejecución y 
Control del Mantenimiento Vial en las Intendencias del Interior.  Informe Final, 
Resumen Ejecutivo.  2002. 
 
Page  22
MTOP. Dirección Nacional de Vialidad.  Presupuestos, Mantenimiento por Contrato, Contratos 
de Rehabilitación y Mantenimiento (CREMA).  May 2000 & 2001. 
 
MTOP.  Servicios Construcción de la Red Vial Nacional, Rendición de Cuentas 2001. 
 
OTHER  
 
ANETRA, Asociación Nacional de Empresas de Transporte Carretero por Autobús.  ANETRA 
20 Años 1983 – 2003.  Octubre 31, (2003). 
 
Banco Central del Uruguay, Área de Investigaciones Económicas.  Informe Trimestral de 
Coyuntura.  Noviembre 2003. 
 
Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID). Integración de la Infraestructura Regional 
Sudamericana (IIRSA).  “El Comercio por Modo Carretero entre los Países del Cono 
Sur, Anexo Estadístico”.  2002 
 
Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID). Integración de la Infraestructura Regional 
Sudamericana (IIRSA).  El Comercio por Modo Carretero entre los Países del Cono 
Sur.  Diciembre 2001. 
 
Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID).  Proyectos Aprobados – Uruguay.  Noviembre 20, 
2003. 
 
Comisión Económica para América Latina de Naciones Unidas (CEPAL).  Base de Datos de 
Comercio Exterior (BADECEL). 
 
Comisión Económica para América Latina de Naciones Unidas (CEPAL).  Base de Datos de 
Transporte Internacional (BTI). 
 
Comisión Económica para América Latina de Naciones Unidas (CEPAL).  Balance preliminar 
de las economías de América Latina y el Caribe 2004  
 
Comisión Trinacional del Eje Vial del Cono Sur, Argentina – Brasil – Uruguay.  Estudio de 
Factibilidad Eje Vial del Cono Sur Parte Uruguaya.  Resumen Ejecutivo.   
 
Corporación Vial del Uruguay.  Programa de Emisión de Obligaciones Negociables Términos y 
Condiciones 1ra Serie.  Febrero de 2003. 
 
Iniciativa para la Integración de la Infraestructura Regional Sudamericana, (IIRSA), Facilitación 
del Transporte en los Pasos de Frontera, 2003. 
 
Ministerio de Ganadería, Agricultura y Pesca (MGAP). Boletín Estadístico Forestal, 2003 y 
2004. 
Page  23
Ministerio de Ganadería, Agricultura y Pesca (MGAP), Oficina de Programación y Política 
Agropecuaria.  Anuario 2003. 
 
Ministerio de Ganadería, Agricultura y Pesca (MGAP).  Memoria Anual de la Presidencia de la 
República 2003.   
 
Universidad Autónoma de Valencia, “ Evaluación de los Principales Puertos de América del 
Sur” , Iniciativa para la Integración de la Infraestructura Regional Sudamericana 
(IIRSA), Corporación Andina de Fomento (CAF), 2003. 
 
11. Contact 
point 
Contact: Jorge M. Rebelo 
Title: Lead Transport Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-9323 
Fax:  
Email: 
Jrebelo@worldbank.org
OR  
 
Contact: Andres Pizarro 
Title: Senior Transport Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-8829 
Fax:  
Email: 
Apizarro@worldbank.org
12. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
