                                Documentof
                               The WorldBank

                          FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




                                                  48692




                              PROJECTPAPER


                          ONRESTRUCTURINGTHE


      URUGUAY:TRANSPORTINFRASTRUCTUREMAINTENANCEAND
                          RURALACCESSPROJECT




                              February15,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
LatinAmerica and the CaribbeanRegion


UR-TransportInfrastructureMaintenance andRuralAccess Project (Loan 7303)
                                    Project Paper


A      DATA SHEET


Date: February 15,2007                      Task Team Leader: Jorge RebelolAndres
Country: Oriental Republic ofUruguay        Pizano
Project Name: Transport Infrastructure      Sector Manager: Jose LuisIrigoyen
Maintenance and Rural Access                Country Director: Axel vanTrotsenburg


Colonia 1089, Piso 3, 11100, Montevideo, Uruguay




                                         2


B       Introduction
1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Vice President to introduce changes
in the Uruguay - Transport Infrastructure Maintenance and Rural Access Project (the
Project)- Loan7303 - P057481, and any accompanying amendments to the Project's legal
documents (the Loan Agreement and Implementation Letter). The proposed changes
reflect the inclusion o f rehabilitation o f new roads and reconditioning o f bridges in
Schedule2 to the Loan Agreement and Annex C to the Implementation Letter, under the
Corporacibn Vial del Uruguay's ( C W ) execution. The works includedhadbeen part o f
the Forest Products Transport Project (the FPTP financed in part with Loan 4204) but
were not completed due to a lack of fiscal space and consequent reduction inbudgetary
allocations to the Ministerio de Transportey Obras Publicus (MTOP). As a result o f the
proposed changes, new rehabilitation o f roads would be added and some reinforcing o f
bridges would be replaced. These changes would be done while maintaining all the road
rehabilitation and the bridge reinforcing on key international corridors that were
originally included inthe design o f the Project. Section 4 o fthis paper provides details o f
the roads addedandbridges beingreplaced.


C       BackgroundandReasonsfor Restructuring
2.      Uruguay's economy depends very much on its road network for the movement o f
goods and passengers since other modes such as rail cannot deliver the same level o f
service. The road network also plays a very important role inthe facilitation o fUruguay's
exports and inattracting foreign direct investment inprocessing plants for products such
as forest products. In the last 15 years, the country benefited from the Bank-financed
Second Transport Project (STP) and the FPTP, which contributed to the increase in the
quality o f road corridors through rehabilitation and maintenance, including through
private sector schemes such as Contrato de Rehabilitacion y Mantenimiento (CREMA)
contracts. In 2005, Uruguay signed a new loan to finance the Project, which is the
subject ofthis amendment.

3.      Duringthe last 15 years, the MTOP embarked on a major effort of modernizing
the transport sector that included (i)reorienting the functions o f transport agencies
towards policy making, planning, regulation and control, rather than execution activities;
and (ii)allowing for increased private sector participation in the sector through
outsourcing and concessions. Onthe whole, the reforms have succeededinimproving the
quality o f transport infrastructure and services, as may be measured by the condition of
the road network and its weathering o f the crisis and by the important improvements in
port productivity and costs.

4.      The Republic of Uruguay's (RoU) road management strategy i s based upon the
use o f performance based instruments, including: (i)private sector participation
mechanisms, such as road concessions, performance-based maintenance contracts, and
maintenance by micro-enterprises;         (ii)the concessions with C W (former


                                              3

Megaconcession), an innovative scheme for channeling funding towards the
performance-basedmaintenance o f key sections o f the network; and (iii)  anoutput-based
maintenance scheme for departmental roads.

5.       The Project was approved by the Board on June 9,2005 andbecame effective on
July 4, 2005. The Project's Development Objective (PDO) i s to upgrade the country's
transport infrastructure to a condition that facilitates the transportation o f freight and
passengersat a cost-efficient level of service. To achieve the PDO, the Project intends to
rehabilitate key transport links, remove existing bottlenecks, arrest any further
deterioration o f infrastructure due to budgetary constraints and improve infrastructure
management and safety. Total Project cost i s US$ 100 million o f which the Bank is
financing US$70million through Loan 7303.

6.       The Project i s performing in a satisfactory manner. Based on the latest
supervision mission carried out in November 2006, the achievement o f the PDO was
rated marginally satisfactory, essentially due to delays in implementation. The
implementation of the Project was also rated marginally satisfactory, due mainly to
budgetary constraints requiring the administration to wait for the approval o f the new
budget in March 2006. There are no audits outstanding. Finally, the Project is still at an
early stage but has already disbursedabout US$ 10.87 million (14.5% o f the loan). The
implementation of the Project i s proceeding marginally slower than planned but the
preparatory work i s in line with the main objective o f improving cost efficiency o f
transport.

7.       The proposed restructuring would enable the completion o froad andbridgeworks
that were part of the FPTP but could not be completed before loan closure inApril 2006,
because o f severe fiscal space restrictions that constrained the MTOP's budget. These
budgetary constraints were triggered by the compliance o f targets agreed between
Uruguay and IMF, as part o f a program to improve the fiscal situation o f the country
which was highlyaffected bythe Argentine macroeconomic crisis. One direct implication
i s that several capital investments planned could not take place or were delayed due to
uncertainty in budget allocation, as priority was given to the maintenance o f existing
roads which were key to the economy. Loan 4204 was amended to help the country deal
with the crisis. As a result, some road and bridge works initially planned under Loan
4204 could not beundertakenbefore the approval o fthe newbudget inMarch2006.




D        Proposed changes
8.       The Bank received on August 30, 2006 a request from the MTOP to modify the
Schedule2 to the LoanAgreement, Annex C to the Implementation Letter andupdate the
procurement plan referred to in the Loan Agreement, in order to substitute road and
bridge works by others initially planned inthe Loan4204.




                                             4

Description
9.      The proposed changesinthe Project's design have highpriority and are consistent
with the original PDO. These changes consist of replacing a number of sub-projects
includedin Schedule 2 to the LoanAgreement andAnnex C to the Implementation Letter
with roads that had originally been part of Loan4204 andwere not completedbecauseof
budgetary restrictions. The works initially plannedunder the LoanAgreement and being
replaced will be undertaken later in the period 2005-2010 by the Borrower using other
sources of funding.

10.     The original Project consists o f 5 components, involving investment in road
rehabilitationand maintenance, bridge reinforcement, transfer terminals, transport safety
andinstitutionalstrengthening.The original Project's componentsaredescribedbelow:

Table 1:Project sescription
   Component                             Description                          Amount
                                                                            financed by
                                                                              Project
                                                                            US$ million
A.l DNV             (a) rehabilitation works consisting o f reinforcing the     8.4
managedroutes       pavement structure of about 35 km o f roads on
                    national route 3 and route 18
A.2 CVU             (a) rehabilitation works consisting of reinforcing the      27.6
managedroutes       pavement structure of 24 km o f roads on national
andbridges          route 1, 2 and 3         and (b) carrying out of
                    reconditioning works consisting o f strengthening,
                    widening or replacing existing structures o f 20
                    bridges located on national Routes 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 21,
                    26,28,30 and200
A.3 Transfer        Minor infrastructure rehabilitation works in several        8.6
terminal            terminals
rehabilitation
BRoad               Rehabilitation and maintenance works in six road           24.85
rehabilitation and sub-networks covering an estimated 981 km o f
maintenance         national roads through performance-based CREMA
contracting-        contracts.
CREMA
contacts
C Departmental      Departmental roadrehabilitationandmaintenance               20.6
road
rehabilitation and
maintenance
DTransport          (i)implementinglow-cost measures to increaseroad            3.8
infrastructure      safety, including roads passing through urban areas,
safety program      and (ii)acquisition and installation of road safety
                    elements
                    ----__-____
ETransport          (i) MTOP inthepreparation ofitstransport
                        assist                                                  5.8



                                             5

sector                  infrastructure plan for years 2005-09, (ii)
                                                                 training for
management and capacity building and provision o f new tools, (iii)
institutional           strengthening     infrastructure  management,    (iv)
building                assisting MTOP in the preparation o f an urban
                       transport program, and (v) feasibility studies o f the
                       Montevideo ring-road and access roads projects

11.     The proposed changes will update Part A.2 of the Project according to the Loan
Agreement, which consists o f the rehabilitation of CVU managedroutes and bridges and
will not modify any o f the other components. Part A. 2 of the Project was expected to
reinforce the pavement structure o f about 24 km o f roads and to strengthen, widen or
replace the existing structure o f 20 bridges. The proposed changeswould replace some o f
the works initially planned under Part A.2 o f the Project by other rehabilitation o f CVU
managed routes and bridges and would result in the rehabilitation o f 91.2 km o f roads,
andthe reconditioning of 5 bridges for this component. The proposed changes will result
inanincreaseof67.2 kmofroadsbeingrehabilitated anda decrease of 12bridges being
reinforced under component A.2. The Project will finance up to US$ 27.6 million o f
works under component A.2 (amount which excludes the US$ 4.5 million in works
already financed by Loan 4204 from the total cost of the works listed under the proposed
Part A.2 o f the Project). The total amount o f the Loan will remain o f US$ 70 million, as
initially approved bythe Board.

12. The roads and bridges under Part A.2 as initially described in the Implementation
      Letter are:




        1        Arroyoy o
                 ~ r r o Sauce             Bridgereconditioning           0.71    0.7
 I      1     II ArrovoMinuano
                 Arrovo Minuano         II Newbridge
                                           New bridge                             0.4
                                                    Y
        1       Arroyo Riachuelo           New bridge
       8        Arroyo Sarandi             Newbridge                         rn
                                                                             9)

       5         Rio Yi                    Bicyclebridge                   I 3 I  0.3    I
       5        A. Villasboas              Reinforcement
       5        A. Molles                  Reinforcement
       5         Cda. Lazorra              Reinforcement                          0.1
       6        A. Canelon Grande         New bridge                              0.2


                                                  6

.      6       A. Tala                 Widening andreinforcement
       7       A. FraileMuerto        Newbridge
      21       A. LasViboras          Newbridge
      26       Cda. Sin nombre         Wideningandreinforcement




  TotalRoadsandBridges(US$ million)                                             $27.6

13.     Route 1 is maintained as in the original Project, with the same sections being
rehabilitated under two different contracts. The bridge works initially planned on Route 1
(Arroyo Sauce, Arroyo Minuano, and Arroyo Riachuelo) and described in Table 2 were
added to the road rehabilitation contracts on Route 1, described in Table 3. As a result,
the total number of bridges beingreinforced by the Project is 8 (5 inthe CVU-managed
bridges section and 3 within the CW-managed roads section for Route 1).

14.     The road rehabilitation works on Routes 1, and 3, originally planned under Part
A.2 o f the Project have not beenmodified, but additional road sections to be rehabilitated
on Routes 8 and 11 were added. As a result o f the addition o f new road sections to be
rehabilitated, some o f the original bridgerehabilitation and construction were eliminated.
The proposed changes would result inthe following works under Part A.2 of the Project,
to the extent they have not already been financed under Loan4204:

Table3: Corn onentA.2 Ai :erRestructurin
                                                                      Financed     Total


 Route   I                                                             Forest

                                                                                           1
 CVU-ManagedRoads(includingbridgeworks on Route 1)
         I Ruta54
           (138km000)-Ruta
    1      22                    Additional lane    10.2    $ 8.2        0%         $ 8.2




                                              7

           Ruta2-Ruta 54
    1      (138kmOOO)          Additional lane   10.8    $ 6.3        0%         $ 6.3
           Plantaurbana de
    3      Young               Reinforcement      3      $ 0.5        0%         $ 0.5
           Rio Cebollati-Ao.
    8      Piraraja            Rehabilitation    15.3    $4.1         0%         $4.1
           Ao. Piraraja-
    8    , 235kmOOO            Rehabilitation    12.6    $3.5         0%         $3.5
           Ecilda Paullier-   ,
   11      Juan Soler          Rehabilitation   25.6     $ 3.3       94%         $ 0.2
           San Jose-Villa




 TotalRoadsandBridges(US$ million)                      $32.0        $4.4       $27.6

15.     The main impact o f the proposed changes will result in some bridge works not
beingundertakenand a larger number ofkilometers of international corridor roadsbeing
rehabilitated. The additional number of kilometers of roads rehabilitated is 67.2km and
the number ofbridges reduced i s 12.No other components are affected.

Table




                                            8

                  Pasaje Sup. Con Santin
          acc     CRossi                     Overpass                     2
                  Pasaje Superior (a
                  determinar)                Overpass                     2


16.    The proposed changes will result inanupdate of the Project's physical outputs for
Part A o fthe Project, andthe outputs for the other componentsremain unchanged.

Tab




         intainedto standards under CREMA-




      ComponentD
        kmofroadsthat havepavement
     markingsimprovedto Mercosur standards             450 km         450 km
    I according
        Additional number o fkmwith signals
                to Mercosur standards                  800km          800km



                                            9

         number o fkmilluminatedunder the
       project                                          13.3 km           13.3 km

ImplementingAgencies
17.      The proposed modifications will not change the agencies responsible for
implementation. The CVU remains the implementing agency for the works initially
financed by Loan 4204 and included in the Loan Agreement. The CVU was responsible
for the implementation of the works initially plannedunder Part A.2 of the Project, which
i s the only component impacted by the proposed changes.

Financing mechanism
18.      The financing mechanism will not be changed following the proposed
modifications. The Project is financed through a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) o f US$
70 million, under FSL terms. The financing planremains the same, as the works initially
plannedunder component 1 (b) andbeingreplaced were expectedto be initiated in2006
and2007, which is the same timeframe as the works beingincorporated from Loan4204.


       FY            2007           2008           2009            2010            2011
  Annual         24.60          21.30          8.50            3.40           1.60




Project's Outcomeand Ouqput
19.      The proposed changes will not modi@ the PDO and associated outcome target
and outcome indicators. The PDO's associated outcome target is that "basic transport
infrastructure is maintained in a condition that facilitates the movement o f freight and
passengersat a cost-efficient level of service by arresting any further deterioration due to
fiscal restrictions, and ensuring the preservation o f existing infrastructure assets in the
long term". The PDO's associated outcome target and indicators are maintained as
describedinthe Implementation Letter (see section 6 for details).

20.      The results indicators for each component o f the Project will remain the same.
The only results indicators whose value could be impacted by the proposed amendment
are those for Part A.2 o f the Project: (i) roughness (IRI) and road condition (IES)
                                         average
of targeted International Corridors (IC), (ii)  transit o f trucks loaded up to Mercosur
standards is permitted along Route 8, and (iii) o f national roads compliant with
                                                   km
Mercosur standards. However, since the restructuring includes additional roads to be
rehabilitated, therefore the outcome indicator values can be expected to be higher than
originally envisaged. The bridges that have been eliminated from the original project do
not negatively impact the route 8 outcome, as the bridgeoriginally includedinthe Project
on Route 8 hasbeenmaintained.




                                            10

21.     However, the Project's physical outputs relatedto the first component will change
as the number o fkm o f roads rehabilitated under Part A o f the Project will increase from
143.6 km to 210.8 km and the number o fbridges beingreinforced will decreasefrom 20
to 8.

22.     Overall the impact of the restructuring should facilitate and improve the
attainment of Project objectives and outcome targets. The impact o fthe proposed changes
on the achievement o f the PDO, outcome indicators, and output i s detailed insection 6 o f
this Project Paper. The list of outcome target and indicators i s described in Annex 1 and
3.

Project cost andfinancingplan
23.     The Project will not finance the portions o f the works already financed under
Loan 4204 and will not change the cost o f Part A.2 of the Project. As shown inTable 3,
some works (2 road rehabilitations on Route 11and the widening and reinforcement o f a
bridge on Route 5) were already financed partly with US$4.4 million of Loan4204. The
total cost o f the proposed works listed under Part A.2 (including works already financed
with Loan4204 under the FPTP) is US$ 32 million, resultinginUS$ 27.6 million being
financed under the Project. Out o f this amount, Loan 7303 will finance US$ 17 million,
as described inTable 7, and the Borrowerwill provide the remaining US$ 10.6 million.

24.     The Project total cost and financing plan will not be modified by the proposed
changes. The changes will only modify Part A.2 o f the Project and will not modify its
cost. In addition, the size o f CREMA contracts, consisting o f rehabilitation and
maintenance o froads, canbe adjusted ifneeded to meet the budget o f the component. As
a result, the costs o f the Project, individual components and subcomponents remain the
same as approved by the Board in April 2005. The amount in each category o f the
disbursement table inSchedule 1to the LoanAgreement does not change andremains the
following:


                          Category                      Amount o f LoanAllocated
                                                                    US$




    I (4) Front-end fee                              I            350.000               I
      (5) Premia for Interest Rate Caps and                          0
      Interest Rate Collars


                                             11

      (6) Unallocated                                             7,880,000

      Total                                                      70,000,000

Disbursementand Financial ManagementArrangements:
25.      The current disbursement and financial management arrangements will not be
modified following the proposed changes. The implementation agency for the works
initially considered under Loan 4204 (CVU) i s the same as the agencies responsible for
implementation o f Part A.2 o f the Project. The amendment would be effective as o f
January 1, 2006, so that the expenditures linked to the proposed changes may be
recognized as o f Jan 1, 2006. The disbursement and financial management arrangements
will remainas those describedinthe Loan Agreement, and the new works under Part A.2
in the amended Loan Agreement will only be carried out as part of the Project to the
extent they were not already financed under Loan4204.

Procurement:
26.      There will be no changes in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement and an updated
procurement plan including the proposed activities was submitted to the Bank by the
Borrower. The updatedprocurement planwas reviewed by a procurement accredited staff
and clearedbythe Sector Manager. The procurement risk was rated as low inthe Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) of the Project, following the assessment o f procurement
capacity o fthe implementing agency. The procurement o fthe works to be includedinthe
Project will be done inaccordance with May 2004 World Bank's procurement guidelines
andas providedinSchedule4 to the LoanAgreement.

ClosingDate
27.      The closing date o f the project will remain at July 31, 2011, after which an ICR
will beprepared.


E        Analysis
28.      The proposed changes do not modify the original economic and financial aspects
o f the Project as appraised. The roads being included inthe Loan Agreement were filly
appraised (including economic and social) for the Loan 4204. The economic evaluation
of the impact of the new roads using the Highway Design and Maintenance Model
(HDM)gave the same results as during appraisal. A new HDMwas runfor the network
after restructuringandthe economic rate o freturnis the same.

29.      The proposed changes will not result in outcome being counted twice. The fiscal
restrictions that affected the Loan 4204 did not prevent the Project from reaching its
PDO. The roads that would be included inthe Loan Agreement were not completed and
not included inthe ex-post evaluation o fthe outcomes o fthe Loan4204. The inclusiono f
the works from the Loan4204 does not affect the economic impact o fthe Project.

30.      The new works under Part A.2 o f the Project will only be carried out as part ofthe
Project to the extent they were not already financed under Loan4204.


                                              12

31.      The compliance o f the additional works with Bank's social safeguards was
reviewed and cleared by SAT. An updated resettlement framework and a resettlement
planfor the proposed Part A.2 (a) (vii) of the Project was submitted by the Borrower to
the Bank.The Resettlement Plan (RP) andthe Resettlement Framework (RF) will replace
Annex G to the Implementation Letter if this amendment i s approved. The works to be
included do not involve resettlement but some land acquisitions already took place for
Route 5 and Route 11. SAT reviewed the RF and RP for road segments on Routes 5 and
11 and confirmed that "The Resettlement Policy Framework as well as the specific
Resettlement Plans for expropriation o f agricultural lands required for road rehabilitation
works on Routes 5 and 11demonstratecompliance with the Bank's OP 4.12 (Involuntary
Resettlement) Policy. The Amendment to the Loan Agreement includes appropriate
references to OP 4.12, the Resettlement Policy Framework and the requirement o f
ResettlementAction Plan".

32.      The compliance o f the additional works with Bank`s environmental safeguards
was reviewed and cleared by SAT. The following documents were provided to and
reviewed by SAT: (i)        procedures and criteria for the environmental screening o f
subprojects, such as those to be financed through the restructured Project, (ii)
                                                                               measuresto
ensure mitigation o f all potential impacts identified through environmental screening,
including specific Environmental Assessments for subprojects with significant impacts,
(iii) application o f environmental guidelines for construction and operation, which are
referenced in bidding and contract documents, (iv) arrangements for environmental
supervision o f contractors, and (v) environmental supervision o f the project by the PIU.
Inaddition, institutionalstrengthening hasbeenprovidedto the implementing agency to
strengthen its environmental management. SAT agreed that "the strategy to manage
impacts related to road rehabilitation and bridge reconditioning was appropriate from a
safeguardsperspective".


F        ExpectedOutcomes
33.      The proposed changes will not affect the PDO, its outcome target and outcome
indicators, as the activities addedare hlly inline with the original Project.

34.      The proposed changes will not modi@ the expected Project's development
outcome as the associated outcome targets (in reference to those initially set out in the
Implementation Letter) will still be met. The outcome indicators that would measure the
achievement o f the PDO are: (i)   the percentage o f the road network below the optimal
level o f service, (ii) percentage o f the road network in bad condition as determined
                      the
per the Road Condition Index, and (iii) value of the road assets maintained equal or
                                          the
above the average level. The proposed changes will result inan increaseinthe number o f
kmofroadsbeingrehabilitatedbythe Project, thus contributing evenmore to the quality
o f the road network. The works under Part A.2 o f the Project consisted originally o f the
rehabilitation of 24 km o f roads. With the proposed changes, a total o f 91.2 km of roads
will be rehabilitated under Part A.2. The outcome indicators for the achievement o f the



                                             13

PDO are all road-related, which means that they won't be impacted by the reduction in
the number o fbridges works beingfinanced by the Project.

35.     The proposed changes will not modify the achievement o f the Project's results
indicators for individual components, as the rehabilitation o f roads that was initially
included in the Project is maintained, as well as the bridge works on key international
corridors. The changes will impact only Part A.2 o f the Project, which outcome target i s
that "targeted national roads and bridges on international corridors (managed by DNV
andCVU) have adequatelevels of service and are upgraded to Mercosur standards". The
first associated result indicator - the average roughness (IRI) and road condition o f
targeted International Corridors  - will not be negatively impacted, as (i) proposed
                                                                              the
roadrehabilitation (on routes 1, 8 and 11) i s on international corridors, (ii)
                                                                             the number o f
km beingrehabilitated on these corridors increases as a result of the proposed changes,
and (iii) reinforcingofthe bridges on routes 1and 8 (international corridors) are kept.
         the
The second result indicator    - transit o f trucks loaded up to Mercosur standards i s
permitted along Route 8 - will be met as the proposedroad rehabilitation on route 8 i s o f
Mercosur standards and the construction of the new bridge on route 8 i s maintained.
Finally, the third result indicator - additional km o f national roads are compliant with
Mercosur standards - will bemet as the proposed roadrehabilitation on routes 1,8 and 11
will becompliant to Mercosur standards.

36.     The proposed changes will not result in an increased risk o f a reduction o f the
RoU's investment program in roads and will not result in modification o f the outcome
targets. The proposed changes will allow the completion o f the road rehabilitation on
Routes 8 and 11 that could not be completed in the FPTP. The rehabilitation works on
Route 1 and 3, which were included in the original Part A.2 of the Project, will be
maintained in the updated Part A.2 following the proposed changes. As a result, the
proposed amendment won't impact the RoU investment program on Routes 1, 3, 8 and
11.


G       Benefits andRisks
37.     The proposed changes will enablethe Borrower to complete works expectedto be
financed by the loan Loan 4204 but that could not be completed before closing date due
to fiscal space limitation. By completing the works, the Borrower will support exports o f
forest products andother goods, as aresult o f a rehabilitatedroadnetwork.

38.     Because the works to be included are not related to the Port o f Fray Bentos, the
reputational risk to the Bank i s considered minimal. The initial request included the
completion o f the pier extension that could not be finished under the FPTP. A Quality
Enhancement Review on February 1, 2007 concluded that including such works would
unnecessarily raise this risk, given that the Borrower could finance this investment o f
US$ 7.1 million with its own funds. The Borrower agreed to drop its request to include
FrayBentos inthe amendment.




                                             14

39.     The proposed changes do not increasethe level o frisk ofthe Project. There are no
additional risks thanthose identified at appraisal that could jeopardize the achievement of
the PDO and outcome targets. Risks such as institutional capacity and
insufficient/untimely release o f counterpart funding have been already identified in the
PAD o f the Project and mitigated through (i)   performance indicators to monitor progress
and(ii) fact that expectedworks are included inthe newlyapprovedbudget.
        the

40.     Although the level o f risk does not increase as a result of the proposed changes, it
was agreed that additional measures would be taken to monitor the financing o f the road
network, to ensure that sufficient funds will be made available by the RoU from budget
and other sources. As a result, yearly review of the availability and use of funds for the
roadnetwork will be conductedbythe Bankduringsupervision.




                                              15

                                     Annex 1
             Impact on output indicators related to specific components

                                  2         3                        Project end
ComDonent 1
kmofnational
roadsrehabilitated      40.6    119.3      210.8
underthe Proiect     km       km         km                            210.8 km
Numbero fbridges
reinforces and
widened, or
replaced underthe       2       5          8
Project              bridges bridges    bridges                        8 bridges
Component 2
kmofroads
rehabilitated under
CREMA-type              13      15
contracts            km       km           15km                          15km
kmofroads
rehabillitated and/or
maintained to
standardsunder
CREMA-type             512      981        981
contracts            km       km        km                              981km
Component 3
kmofdepartmental
roadsmaintained to
satisfactory
standardsunder the     0        9,000      9,000                      9,000 km(2
Projects             km       km        km                               years)
ComDonent 4
kmofroadsthat
have pavement
markingsimproved
to Mercosur            0                   450
standards            km         O k m   km                              450 km
Additional number
o fkmwith signals
accordingto            0                   800
Mercosur standards km           O k m   km                              800km
numberofkm
illuminatedunder       0        11,7
the project          km      km            O   h                        13.3 km




                                       16

                                      Annex 2
             Impactofpropc ed changeson PDOand outcome idicators
PDO                          OutcomeIndicators                  ImpactofProposedChanges
Basic transport              Percentageo fthe roadnetwork       The proposed changeswill
ifnrastructure is maintained below the optimal level of service result inan increaseinthe total
inaconditionthat             Percentageo fthe roadnetwork in number ofkmbeing
facilitates the movement o f badconditionas determined per      rehabilitated incomponent 1B,
freight andpassengersat a    the Road Condition Index           which will result inthe same
cost-efficient level o f     Value ofroadassets i s maintained  or a better conditionofthe
serviceby arresting any      equal or above the averagelevel    roadnetwork. The
further deterioration due to                                    rehabilitation o froads
fiscal restrictions, and                                        originally plannedbythe
ensuringthe preservation                                        Project havebeenmaintained
o fexistinginfrastructure
assets inthe longterm
Intermediate Results for
Component1                   ResultsIndicators                  Impactof ProposedChanges
                             Average roughness(IRI) androad     Roads 1, 8 and 11 are all
                             condition (IES) o ftargeted        international corridors, and the
                             International Corridors            number      o f    k m s  being
                                                                rehabilitated on these roads
                                                                increases as a result o f the
                                                                proposed       changes.    The
Targeted national roads and                                     reinforcingbridges on routes 1,
bridges on international                                        and 8 (international corridors)
(managedby DNV and                                              arekept
CVU) have adequatelevels     Transitof trucks loaded upto       Road rehabilitation on route 8
of service and areupgraded Mercosur standardsi s permitted      i s of Mercosur standards and
to Mercosur standards        along Route 8                      new bridge is maintained from
                                                                Dreviousdesign
                             Additional kmo fnational roads     The proposed changes will
                             are compliant to Mercosur          result in the rehabilitation o f
                             standards                          sections on route 1, 8 and 11,
                                                                which are all of Mercosur
                                                                Standards




                                         17

                                         Annex 3
                         Project's PDO Outcome Indicators

Outcome Indicators             Baseline                    Targ   35

                                               YR YR    YR      YR YR      YR
                                               1 -2       3     4 -5         6
Cost Efficiency
                                                      9% for
                         Percentageof                    the          11%for the
Percentage of the road   national roads               flexible        flexible
network belowthe optimal belowoptimal level          pavement         pavement
level of service         of service is 16%            network         network
                         for the flexible
                         pavement network                             15%for the
                         and 20% for the              13%for          entire
                         total network               the entire       network
                                                      network
                                              --
Arrestingfurther
deterioration

Percentage of the road
network in bad condition
as determined per the
Road Condition Index            29.5%                 25.0%
(Indicede Estado de                                                       25.0%

ConservacionVial-IES)




road assets

                                                     Value of
The value of National    4ctual value:US$               road          Value of road
Roadassets is            2004: US$2148                assets          assets is at
maintainedequal or       million(0.65%               reaches          least 1%
above the median of the  3elow median                 median          above the
theoreticalmaximum and   Jalue)                        level          median level
minimum admissible
values as defined per
ECLAC's methodology




                                           18

      Annex 4
RoadCorridorsinUruguay



Clasificacion Red Vial




          19


