Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20308-BEN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION(US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
LABOR FORCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 9, 2000
AFTH3
AFC13
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2000)
Currency Unit = Franc CFA (FCFA')
= US$
US$ I = FCFA 650
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BG        Beneficiary Groups
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DFPC      Direction de la Formation Professionnelle Continue (Directorate for In-Service Vocational Training)
EA        Environmental Assessment
ES        Executive Secretary
FDFP      Fonds de Developpement de la Formation Professionnelle (Fund for the Development of Vocational
Training)
FNAA      Fonds National d'Appui Li lAlphabetisation
FODEFCA Fonds de Developpement de la Formation Professionnelle Continue et de l'Apprentissage (Fund for
the Development of Vocational Training and Apprenticeship)
GOB       Government of Benin
JEC       Informnation, Education and Communication
ILO       International Labor Organization
INSAE    Institut National de la Statistique et de l'Analyse Economique (National Statistical Institute)
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan
MC        Management Committee
MFPTRA  Ministere de la Fonction Publique, du Travail et de la Reforme Administrative
NGO       Non Governmental Organizations
NVTP      National Vocational Training Policy
OE        L 'Observatoire de l'Emploi
OECD      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PERC      Public Expenditure Reform Credit
PMR       Project Management Reports
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PRSP      Poverty Reduction and Strategy Paper
SOEs      Statement of Expenditures
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Acting Country Director:   Hedi Larbi
Sector Manager:   Rosemary T. Bellew
Task Team Leader:   Ousmane Diagana



BENIN
LABOR FORCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performnance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
l. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                       6
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                              11
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            12
2. Financial                                                                           13
3. Technical                                                                           13
4. Institutional                                                                       13
5. Environment                                                                         14
6. Social                                                                              14
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      16
2. Critical risks                                                                      16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      17
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             17
2. Other Conditions of Negotiations                                                    17



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           17
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           19
Annex 2: Project Description BENIN: Labor Force Development Project                       24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          29
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            30
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     31
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        32
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      39
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   41
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             42
Annex 11: Additional: Plan d'Action pour la mise en place d'un syst6me d'information comptable  44
et financiere
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 28525



BENIN
Labor Force Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFMBJ
Date: June 9, 2000                                Team Leader: Ousmane Diagana
Country Manager/Director: Hedi Larbi              Sector Manager/Director: Rosemary Bellew
Project ID: P070204                               Sector(s): EV - Vocational Education & Training
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
C: Loan         Z Credit        C Grant         O Guarantee     C Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $5.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
1 Financing Plan:  Source                                     Local        Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                      0.70           0.00           0.70
IDA                                                             4.70           0.30           5.00
BENEFICIARIES                                                   0.50           0.00           0.50
Total:                                                          5.90           0.30           6.20
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BENIN (GOB)
Responsible agency: FODEFCA - MFPTRA
FODEFCA (Fonds de developpement de la formation professionnelle continue et de I'apprentissage)
Address: Cotonou - Ministere de la Fonction Publique, du Travail et de la Rdforme Administrative
Contact Person: Jean Y. Tossavi
Tel: 229 314054                 Fax: 229 313223                Email: padfpc@intnet.bj
Estimated disbursements Bank FYIUS$M):
FY   2001    4   2002    2003       200.4
Annual     0.5           1.3          1.6         1.6
Cumulative     0.5           1.8         3.4         5.0
Project implementation period: 2001-2004
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004
XSFAD Fo- F. -   210



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The development objective of the proposed project is to assist in the start Up and pilot testing of a new
Government program that aims to: (a) increase the availability, quality and cost effectiveness of labor force
training, particularly targeting the informal sector and women, and (b) strengthen capacities of the public
sector to monitor and evaluate labor force training needs, and of the private sector to improve its training
capacity. The program will be implemented by a new autonomous fund, FODEFCA- Fonds de
developpement de laformation professionnelle continue et de i 'apprentissage which would finance
training proposals prepared by beneficiary groups (firms, cooperatives, community-based associations)
that meet the program's criteria. The Fund would also broker cooperative training partnerships between the
beneficiary groups and training providers in both public and private sectors.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
a.    Institutional development
*      FODEFCA's systems and procedures for appraising training proposals, financing them and
effecting quality control are transparent, fair and effective as reflected in institutional assessments
and in the increase of the number of qualified private providers.
b.     Training results
-      Informal sector workers and/or women beneficiaries represent 60 percent of total beneficiaries.
T raining programs are effective as measured by high completion and proficiency rates, and
employment following training.
*      r The unit cost of training by provider and sector is regularly evaluated and monitored.
c.     Development impact
Over the medium term, productivity is increased as measured by increased earnings for
individuals and firms.
d.     Sustainability
Allocations made by the Borrower (in its budget) to Vocational Ecducation and Training are at least
CFAF 1.2 billion each year.
End-of-project plans for scaling-up/maintaining operations of FODEFCA are appraised as feasible
and sustainable.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: P-6308-BEN               Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/07/94
A new CAS is under preparation and is expected to be presented to the Board by the end of calendar year
2000. Key development objectives are to sustain economic growth over 6 percent per annum, increase
domestic savings to 11 percent of GNP, promote private sector investment, and reduce poverty, particularly
- 2 -



in rural areas. Overall economic growth is likely to be based on accelerated development of both the
modem private sector and the informal sector where growth is closely linked to the availability of credit and
training for small and medium size enterprises and micro-enterprises. The Government has included in its
draft Poverty Reduction and Strategy Paper (PRSP) the proposed labor force training fund as part of its
strategy to reduce poverty and improve broad-based growth by improving labor productivity and eamings,
particularly in the informal sector and among women. The proposed project provides support to test the
effectiveness and sustainability of this approach to growth and poverty reduction.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Like many African countries, the labor force in Benin has low levels of education, and little access to
training to improve skills and productivity or to adjust to new employment opportunities.
Labor. Benin's labor force is estimated at 2.5 million, with nearly 130,000 entering the labor force in
1998. The main sources of employment are agriculture (56 percent), commerce, services and transport (33
percent), and industry and construction (11 percent). The modem sector is small, employing an estimated 3
percent of the labor force (1992 estimate). The majority of the labor force is in the informal sector, which
experienced strong growth during the nineties. Labor force participation rates of youths are high (46
percent for the 10-14 age group and 63 percent for the 15-19 age group) and their employment is
concentrated in the informal sector. According to official Govemment statistics, unemployment is low,
averaging only 5 percent, although it is significantly higher for youths (15 percent). Despite a low
unemployment rate, 33 percent of the population falls below the poverty line due to underemployment, low
wages and low productivity.
Education. The average level of education of the labor force in Benin is low even by regional standards.
An estimated 66 percent of adults are illiterate, compared to the Sub-Saharan average of 41 percent.
Although enrollment in primary school has historically been comparatively higher in Benin, now averaging
78 percent of the school-aged population relative to the Sub-Saharan average of 63 percent, drop out rates
are high. An estimated 60 percent of students drop out before completing primary school. To a large
extent, this explains why, despite historically high primary enrollment in Benin, adult illiteracy has not
declined significantly. Enrollment in secondary education is also low, averaging only 18 percent of the
eligible age-group.
Training. Access to any education and training outside the formal school system is very limited. In 1998,
for example only 15,000 workers, less than one percent of the labor force, are estimated to have received
on-the-job or short-term occupational training/skill upgrading. A survey conducted in 1998 identified
about 200 training providers, both public and private, but the quality and length of the training programs
varies considerably. Public sector technical schools generally address the small modem sector but the
content, level and quality is often irrelevant to the needs of the work place. Traditionally, they have not
provided training services to those already in the labor force. Although when surveyed firms express their
need for trained workers, in-enterprise training is rare since firms are often too small to deploy scarce skills
and workshop facilities for training. Youths entering the labor force are particularly disadvantaged under
these circumstances. They come with poor levels of education, no job experience, and no access to training.
There is also a problem of incentives since a payroll tax is levied by Govemment for the purpose of
financing vocational and professional training that would benefit workers and employers - Taxe d'
apprentissage. Since 1990, the proceeds of the payroll tax have been incorporated into general revenues
and have not been allocated for training purposes. With the start up of the Fund program, the Government
agreed to allocate 600 million FCFA to the program. Annual allocations for the Fund will be based on
- 3 -



proposals put forward during the regular budget preparation process. Under the proposed Public
Expenditure Reform Credit (PERC), they are likely to be merged with other allocations related to public
provision of training, such as the lyc&es techniques. This is appropriate since program review should focus
on competitive allocations. Monitoring and evaluation of the Fund program is expected to contribute to
more efficient allocation by providing feedback on the costs and effectiveness of public and alternative
providers. The payroll tax issue does not apply in any case to the majority of the Fund's beneficiaries who
are likely to be from the informal sector, i.e. firms of less than ten employees.
In view of this context, the GOB faces the challenge of determining:
how best to ensure that sufficient training is available and accessed to meet the requirements of an
evolving economy, with special reference to the informal sector and women;
-      how to deploy and utilize existing public and private training resources more efficiently; and
*      how to establish robust mechanisms for financing, and for monitoring and evaluating the level and
quality of training available.
In Year 3 of the project, a draft plan will be prepared outlining the future development of training in Benin.
The plan will include (a) an analysis of the market for training both in the informal sector (where training
subsidies may be justified) and in the modem sector where small- and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs)
may be expected to finance training on a progressive basis; (b) the design of appropriate incentives for
both private providers and client enterprises (including resolution of the training tax issue); (c) an
assessment of the relative performnance and comparative advantages of the public and private training
providers; (d) a three-year budget proposal for the formal vocational training programs conducted by the
Ministry of Civil Service, Labor, and Administrative Reforn; (e) a three-year business plan and
performance-linked budget for FODEFCA indicating its client groups, estimated operating costs,
cost-sharing targets and the estimated amount of public subsidy; (f) an "exit strategy" - progressive
down-scaling of FODEFCA's program in the event of poor performance or low demand; and (g) medium
term scenarios for the delivery of training indicating the respective roles of FODEFCA and of public and
private training providers.
Government strategy. The National Vocational Training Policy (NVTP), adopted by the Government in
December 1998, has prepared the ground to address these questions. The policy recognizes the importance
of targeting informal sector as well as the modem sector workers, of ensuring the delivery of cost-effective
training which addresses worker and employer priorities, and of associating govermment, employers,
workers, trade unions and civic groups in policy making. The NVTP also laid the ground for the
establishment of FODEFCA which has a broad mandate to explore innovative training solutions responding
to demand. FODEFCA will channel financing and technical assistance to partnerships between training
providers (public and private) and beneficiaries. Training policy will continue to be guided by on-going
labor market studies conducted by the l'Observatoire de 1 'Emploi (Employment Observatory) which has
conducted, partly financed by a PPF, an inventory of existing training programs and qualitative and
quantitative assessments of training demand.
Lessons learned Lessons learned from previous projects point out to the need for involving potential
project beneficiaries into project design and implementation and for utilizing the capacity of private
providers. Two ongoing projects, the Borgou Pilot Rural Support Project and the Private Sector
Development Project contain modest training components similar to the ones proposed under this LIL
which would complement the training activities on those projects by, among other things, including them
into the monitoring and evaluation system.
-4 -



The Benin first Education project, closed in 1984, was aimed, among other objectives, at developing the
provision of public education to the rural youth outside of the formal system. The completion report of that
Project showed delays in contract awards, inadequate project monitoring and coordination and weak
institutional capacity. In addition, the operation was developed without due attention given to potential
beneficiaries.
Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project approved in 1998 is under implementation. Its main objective is
to improve the capacity of farmers organizations, rural women producers groups and village communities
of Borgou region to better manage their socio-economic environment. As a LIL, it is testing approaches to
empower local populations to improve their own affairs. Functional literacy, post-literacy and technical
training supported by the LIL would be provided by private operators and NGOs. Beneficiaries
contribution will be up to 15 percent.
The Agricultural Services Restructuring Project had a component to address specific needs of rural
communities through training, decentralization and farmers' empowerment through an approach called
Training and Visit. In hindsight, it appears that this approach was inadequate and costly. The concept of
Polyvalent extension agents was ineffective. Extension agents were usually former agents from technical
services retrained for all-purpose extension services. Some did not have the education to effectively widen
their expertise. The expected polyvalence was therefore never achieved and neither was the quality of
service to producers improve.
Lesssons learnedfrom other countries. Funds and employment observatories similar to those supported
by the proposed pilot project have been implemented in several countries, including C6te d'lvoire, Cape
Verde, Madagascar, and Mali among others.
Training Funds. The experience of the training funds in increasing access to better quality training has
generally been positive. However, none have been in operation long enough to assess sustainability. Main
lessons learned from these programs show that several ingredients are important in providing effective
demand driven training:
Identification of training needs by the beneficiaries,
Forging partnerships between beneficiaries and training providers,
Providing timely financing and technical assistance to training partnerships,
Representation in program management and oversight of all stakeholders, beneficiaries, training
providers, employers and unions, and
Training costs that are commensurate with what beneficiaries can afford to pay.
These lessons are taken into account in the proposed project as follows. Beneficiaries identify their training
needs and select a training partner from FODECFA's registry. Beneficiaries appoint a small committee to
work with the training provider and FODECFA channels resources and technical advice to the new
partnership. The management of FODEFCA includes representatives of all stakeholder groups.
Observatories. Lessons drawn from the experience with observatories is less clear. Generally,
employment observatories, which are found in most francophone African countries, do not provide reliable
and up-to-date information on the labor market and training. This has been due to inadequately qualified
staff, and a manpower planning approach which attempted to predict labor market needs and orient training
resources accordingly. In addition to the general failure of the approach, the time taken to collect and
analyze the considerable amount of information gathered for such projections seriously delayed appropriate
policy and resource adjustments. More successful experiences -- such as in Eastern Europe, Latin America
- 5 -



and regionally in countries such as Cote d'lvoire, Mauritius, and Cape Verde -- have adopted a different
approach focusing not on predicting demand as a means of allocating resources, but on using smaller and
more frequent firm and beneficiary assessments, and tracer studies to assess the medium term impact of
training on worker and firm productivity. They have also recruited the required economic skills locally,
regionally and internationally, often through twinning arrangements for the latter forms of partnership.
The project takes these lessons into account by supporting building the capacity of the Observatoire in
Benin to conduct firm and beneficiary assessments, and tracer studies through a twinning arrangement with
an international institution with expertise in the area. It also supports networking with similar institutions in
the region. In particular, regular exchanges will be supported between FODEFCA's management
committee and staff and those of Cote d'lvoire and Cape Verde finds institutions.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The key development issues addressed by the proposed project are the need to build up a better skilled labor
force, and the scarcity of effective training programs in the country. The learning objectives are several. In
that regard, the project seeks to answer the following questions:
Scope and capacity
What is the scope of demand for training in different economic sectors?
What are the average unit costs of training across sectors and providers?
In what areas is there sufficient or insufficient training capacity?
Procedures and Institutional Development
Are the criteria and procedures applied for the evaluation of training grants fair and transparent?
Results of training
What is the effectiveness of the training programs?
What is the most effective way to ensure adequate monitoring of labor market trends and training programs
financed by the Fund, and adequate evaluation of the outcomes of training?'
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
@ Economic      1 Technical    1 Social           1 Participation
@ Financial     @ Institutional  C Environmental C Other
In the three-year implementation period, significant learning is expected in the following areas:
(a)    market for training, types of training, willingness to pay, expectations;
(b)    the strengths and weaknesses of the training providers and strategies for reinforcing their
institutional and operational capacity;
(c)    more insight into which training approaches work best with differentl clients;
(d)    norms and standards (including occupational tests eventually) in terrns of training objectives,
training content, resource requirements and costs applicable to different categories of training,
facilitating future implementation;
(e)    participatory planning techniques which involve beneficiary groups and trainees in the
- 6-



identification of priority training content, expected skill levels and training strategies, as well as in
field evaluation;
(f)   systems and procedures of FODEFCA with regard to: the appraisal of training proposals and the
making and managing of grants; field support services, M&E arrangements; and management of
the network of resource institutions (the Observatory et al.) which provide applied research skills
and technical know-how; and
(g)   the key elements (human resources, material resources and financing) of an action program for the
scaling up FODEFCA's operations.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
TRAINING GRANTS. The purpose of this component is the provision of training to workers in
the informal and modem sectors, and to selected new entrants to the the labor force. To this end,
FODEFCA will identify priority training programs and contract the provision of training with qualified
providers. During project preparation, the Ministry of Civil Service, Labor, and Administrative Reform
(Ministere de la Fonction Publique, du Travail et de la Reforme Administrative, MFPTRA) with the
Management Committee (MC) of FODEFCA launched a national publicity campaign to inform employers,
workers, trade unions, civic groups and groupements d'int&ret economique about the objectives of the
program. This has led to the preliminary identification of beneficiary groups (BGs). FODEFCA has also
compiled an initial registry of potential training providers. FODEFCA plans to hold workshops to assist
BGs in preparing training program proposals based on procedures laid out in the Operational Manual.
Initial proposals include inter alia registration data on the BG including objectives, content and rationale of
the training program, their financial and technical resources, the likely number of trainees, and the profile
of the training provider. In an effort to address certain areas of the economic sector for which training
requests fall well below expectations, the Studies and IEC Unit of FODEFCA will conduct IEC programs
and market surveys that will lead to putting together groups of trainees for proposed training programs that
fall in that category.
The maximum grant per training program proposal (exclusive of counterpart) is 30 million Francs CFA.
Each proposal will be reviewed for quality control purposes by the technical and administrative and
financial units of the FODEFCA on the basis of economic interest, social equity, technical feasibility, cost
estimates, and financial plan. Details on the submission and approval procedures of training programs are
found in the Operational Manual and are summarized as follows:
(a)    Training proposals that are estimated to cost more that 3 million Francs CFA will be
evaluated by a technical committee of FODEFCA, and the recommendations will be submitted by the
Executive Secretary to the MC for approval. The composition of the MC for the approval of proposals
will consist of (a) one representative from each of the following entities: the workers union, employers
association, and public sector; and (b) the Executive Secretary (Secretaire Executif), the principal training
officer (technical unit), and the administrative and financial officer (administrative and financial unit).
Minutes of the decision meetings will be drafted by the secretary of the committee and will be made
available upon request. This will ensure full representation of the stakeholders and transparency of the
transactions. The meeting will then instruct the technical unit of the Executive Secretariat to proceed with
inforning the BGs of the status of their proposals (approved and rejected). The administrative and
financial unit, in collaboration with the technical unit, will then proceed with the recruitment of the training
- 7 -



providers, if applicable.
(b)    Training proposals that are estimated to cost the equivalent or less than 3 million Francs CFA
will be evaluated by the principal training officer (technical unit) and the administrative and financial
officer (administrative and financial unit). The results will be submitted by the technical unit of
FODEFCA to the Executive Secretary for approval. A report will be sent to the MC for information. The
administrative and financial unit, in collaboration with the technical unit, will then proceed with the
recruitment of the training providers, if applicable.
The recruitment process of training providers is summarized as follows: for proposals that are estimated to
cost more than 3 million Francs CFA, training providers will be selected from a short list of providers
taken from the registry of qualified training providers (updated annually), and on the basis of technical and
financial offers. For proposals that are equivalent or less than 3 million Francs CFA, a sole source process
may be used, based on technical and financial proposals. Proposals must specify how the provider plans to
work collaboratively with the BG on course design and implementation so as to ensure full ownership of
the product by both parties. The administrative and financial unit and the technical unit will be responsible
for evaluating proposals from training providers and recommend to the Executive Secretary the training
provider that will carry out the training program. The new partnership (B(G and training provider) will
work together to refine the training proposal in detailing training methodology.
Grants will be disbursed in installments based on a signed agreement between FODEFCA and the training
provider. Prior to the signature of the agreement, a cofinancing agreement will be signed between
FODEFCA and the BG to ensure that the BG contributes 15 per cent in cash of the total budget for
training. The deposit of the corresponding amount in FODEFCA's bank account is a requirement for
training to take place. Before a request for the subsequent "tranche" of payment from the training provider
can be considered, FODEFCA will send a field mission to review progress in course organization and
execution and to account for the use of disbursed funds. These procedures and the accompanying
Operational Manual are intended to be dynamic and will be modified as needed in order to incorporate new
learning. It is expected that most requests will come from the informal sector.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION (M&E) The project seeks to develop a robust,
user-friendly M&E system which would generate timely information on the implementation of the
training programs (trainees' profiles at entry, results achieved at completion, attendance data and costs,
data on the effectiveness of different approaches and methods as well as qualitative data on trainer and
trainee perceptions) and on the market for training (beneficiary groups' knowledge and appreciation of the
Fund's prograrn, the impact of training programs on the work place - notably, employer and foreman-level
assessments, trainees' continuity and advancement in their posts and over the longer term, through
longitudinal studies, the economic impact of training on firms and on workers, permitting the progressive
adjustment of policies and programs including the rationalization of financial allocations to the training
sub-sector on the basis of improved knowledge about impact and cost-effecliveness of alternative training
approaches. Specifically, M&E information should eventually feed into public expenditure reviews (with
regard to the comparative advantages of public training providers) and into the design of incentives for
private providers. While the project seeks to create that capacity at two levels - in FODEFCA, with regard
to training operations, and in the Observatory, with regard to the changing needs of the market place and to
the eventual economic outcomes of project-supported training - this component will finance mainly
activities carried out by the OE, while activities carried out by FODEFCA are budgeted under the
institutional development component.
-8 -



Under the M&E component, OE will mainly address the aspects related to the market of training on which
they will prepare periodic reports to be submitted to FODEFCA and will do the collection and processing
of information and the analysis needed for these reports with the assistance of national and international
technical experts.
FODEFCA, as a new institution, would give priority to establishing the mechanisms for monitoring the
ongoing operation of its own systems and procedures (for evaluating training proposals, making and
managing grants, providing technical support to training providers) and to the field-level supervision of
training propsals under implementation, giving special attention to the staffing of supervision, its
management, data collection standards and protocols. The Observatory has a comparative advantage in
managing surveys of employers and employees, as well as analyzing labor market trends and conducting
specific studies on the knowledge/skills requirements of new or rapidly growing sub-sectors of the
economy. Neither of the two institutions can be self-reliant. FODEFCA has to build its capacity from
ground zero, start strengthening its capacity from project start and consolidate it based on a critical
evaluation of its record by midproject review. M&E skills are rare and costly. At the same time, importing
them on an ad hoc basis to serve a specific project has rarely led to the creation of durable local capacity.
Yet another issue is the danger of trying to design country-specific M&E systems and procedures.
Consequently, both FODEFCA and the Observatory will have to rely on a broad technical support network
(in terms of human resources and access to the wider information base on M&E approaches and methods
with regard to active and passive labor market programs) to provide guidance, training and objective
assessment of their progress. National institutions such as the planning ministry, the national statistical
institute (particularly with regard to poverty) and the university economics and sociology departments can
make important contributions, as can similar autonomous funds and labor market observatories in the
region and overseas.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT (ID) FODEFCA is a new institution. A key objective of the
LIL is to learn how well its organization, systems, and procedures serve its institutional goals. However,
ID will have to be a continuing activity, based on formative evaluation of its operations. In order to limit
the risk that FODEFCA go off track during its initial period of operation, it is proposed that the MC and
senior staff be trained both with regard to their specific responsibilities but also in the area of institutional
assessment, with a view to the MC conducting regular self-evaluation on the basis of a half-yearly "bilan"
of achievements, the effectiveness of its procedures, operations, and operating costs. A description of the
"bilan" process is found in paragraph 3 of this section below (Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements).
The Credit would finance ID assessment training, related studies, as well as the provision of "facilitators"
to assist and advise the MC in the half-yearly evaluations. FODEFCA and the Observatory will benefit
from the exchanges with other institutions (FDFP, FNAA) and it is also proposed that "twinning"
arrangements be developed with overseas centers of excellence in training and labor market studies via
collaboration with the ILO and OECD, for instance. These arrangements would facilitate formnal overseas
training of FODEFCA and Observatory senior staff, staff exchanges, as well as offering specialists from
overseas the possibility of a research base. Strengthening support to the Directorate of In-service
Vocational Training (Direction de la Formation Professionnelle Continue, DFPC) under the project is
limited to enhance staff capability to play their role adequately in coordinating and ensuring that activities
meet the national policy on vocational training. The Credit will finance overseas study, training, technical
assistance, some equipment and a share of operating costs.
-9-



indicative             Bank-      % Of
Component                   Sector         costs      % of    financing   Bank-
(USSM)   Total       (US$M)  financing
Provision of Training                                   3.40       54.8       2.90       58.0
Monitoring and Evaluation System                         0.70       11.3      0.60       12.0
Strengthening of Institutional Capacity                  1.60      25.8       1.00       20.0
Refinancing of PPF                                      0.50         8.1      0.50       10.0
Total Project Costs                     6.20      100.0       5.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                      6.20      100.0      5.00      100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Coordinated by the Directorate of In-service Vocational Training (Direction de la Formation
Professionnelle Continue, DFPC) of the Ministry of Labor, preparation was a team effort, with:
*   workers representatives, staff from the the National Association of Artisans, as well as from the head
offices of four trade unions;
*   private sector representatives, staff from the National Council of Employers, the Chamber of
Commerce and Industry; the Chamber of Agriculture; and
*   Government representatives from the ministries of Finance, Planning., Education, Industry, and
Commerce.
The project would be implemented by FODEFCA, an autonomous institution established by Decree
No. 99-053 of February 12, 1999). Management Committee (MC): The MC would be the Fund's chief
organ of deliberation. Comprised of representatives from the above stakeholder groups, the MC would
set policy, establishe and modify the Fund's operating procedures, approve training grants to BGs on
the basis of recommendations made by the Executive Secretariat, vote the Fund's budget and approve
the annual audit. The MC will recruit the Executive Secretary (ES) on a competitive basis and propose
the candidature to the Minister of Labor for confirmation and authorize hiring and dismissal of Fund
staff upon the proposal of the ES. Executive Secretariat: Under the authority of the Executive
Secretary, the Executive Secretariat would be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Fund
activities and apply the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Operational Manual with regard to
project management, financial management and procurement. The ES would be comprised of three
operating units:
The Technical Unit will be responsible for the management of the training component. It would
appraise training requests, guide BGs in the fine-tuning of their proposals, establish and revise annually the
registry of qualified training providers, participate in the MC approval meetings of training proposals, and
liaise with other services of FODEFCA. Initially, it will comprise two full-time training specialists,
including the unit head. Supervision. Effective field supervision is an essential ingredient for assuring the
succes of the training sub-projects. It is also indispensable for ensuring the collection of the data required
for M&E. Consequently, experienced, independent supervisors will be recraited as required to assist the
training specialists in this dimension of their work. Each supervisor will be expected to visit sub-projects at
start-up, mid way and at the end of training, with other visits as required. Thlie cost of supervision,
- 10-



estimated at 10 per cent of the total training costs, is reasonable.
*      The Studies and IEC Unit would be responsible for the management of applied research and all
studies requested by the MC for the FODEFCA. It would also organize and implement awareness
campaigns relative to the Fund's activities. It would be comprised of one full-time specialist.
*      The Administrative and Financial Unit would be responsible for administration and finance, in
particular the attribution and monitoring of all expenditures financed by the Fund. The unit would benefit
from technical assistance on a part-time basis or as needs arise in procurement, information technology,
and auditing. It would be comprised of two full-time staff-- an administrative/ financial head and an
accountant. FODEFCA will manage the financial accounting and maintenance of separate project accounts
and records for project related expenditures in accordance with principles and practices satisfactory to
IDA, and provide annual financial statements. All project accounts, the special accounts and financial
statements would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report would
specifically include the auditor's opinion on the Special Account and on the reliability of Statements of
expenditures (SOEs) as a basis for IDA Credit disbursement. The audit report would also include an
assessment as to whether goods and services have been procured from eligible sources, and an opinion on
the proper utilization of goods and services under the project. The auditors reports would further include a
statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the accounting system and internal controls. The cost of audit
would be paid from the IDA credit. The audited statements, accounts, auditors long-forms reports and
short-form opinion reports would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year. Semi-annual audit reports of the SOEs will be submitted within three months of each period. The
recruitment of an independent auditor and the establishment of an internal accounting and financial
management system acceptable to IDA is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
The recruitment process of FODEFCA staff is underway and recruitment of key staff is a condition of
effectiveness. The staffing plan and the services' respective roles and responsibilities are described in the
Operational Manual. Adoption of the final versions of the Operational Manual and Administrative and
Financial Manual, satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Three types of monitoring and evaluation indicators would be produced under the project (see section A.2).
While some consultant assistance will be necessary, the approach is hands-on, with a strong emphasis on
learning by doing. Consequently, while outside advisors (from the support network) should ensure
methodological soundness, their chief responsibility will be to mentor, to trouble shoot, diagnosing any
weaknesses and proposing ad hoc training as required.
The activities of M&E (see Section 1.2 and Annex 2) to obtain results indicators will include: the
monitoring of training program implementation, collecting information on the trainees' socioeconomic and
educational profiles at entry, training outcomes, employer and trainee observations and formative
evaluation of selected programs, leading to their progressive improvement. Other core activities that will
allow to obtain impact indicators, include analyzing the effects of training on the labor market and the
implications of the evolution of labor markets on the demand for training; and laying the groundwork for
longitudinal studies on economic impact which will start under the project and continue during the period of
scaling up and consolidation.
Government will prepare by June 30, 2001 a methodological handbook detailing the key component
surveys and studies, together with draft protocols and anticipated statistical treatment. Fortunately,
- 11 -



there is a large body of applied research which can be easily adapted to meet the specificities of Benin.
A senior consultant in the field of labor market policy and program evaluation will work with the
Observatory and its partner resource institutions, mentoring task teams to tackle different aspects of
M&E (field supervision, employer surveys, beneficiary assessments) culminating in a workshop to
prepare the handbook. L 'Observatoire de l'Emploi will be responsible for producing annual reports
with the results of their evaluations, including recommendations on adjustments that FODEFCA should
implement. To strengthen its capacity, L'Observatoire de l'Emploi will start implementing a
partnership agreement with a French observatory during the first year of project implementation.
FODEFCA will monitor the non-financial aspects of training contract implementation, ensuring the
collection of basic data on, among other things, training initiatives, trainee profiles at entry, interim and
final test results, attendance data and costs. It will do the technical pre-evaluation of the proposals
presented for FODEFCA's financing, and will also monitor and evaluate the results of the training contracts
approved and financed by FODEFCA upon completion of their execution. It will evaluate the adequacy of
its approval criteria and the fairness and transparency of its approval processes. It will evaluate the
adequacy of the technical assistance as well. Based on this information, and on information on progress in
the production of planned outputs, implementation activities and inputs, the Executive Secretariat under the
responsibility of the Executive Secretary will also prepare consolidated semi-annual and annual progress
reports (to be submitted to the Management Committee and to IDA one month after the end of the
semester). These reports will also include relevant information from the reports produced by
L'Observatoire de l'Emploi under M&E.
The Executive Secretariat of FODEFCA will monitor financial aspects of the Fund's operation via the
financial management system (see Annex 6). Financial reporting and reports will be prepared and
submitted to the Management Committee and IDA one month after the end of each quarter. It will link
progress to its costs, and present information on actual expenditures (both capital and recurrent) over the
reporting period.
FODEFCA's Management Committee will conduct regular half-yearly self-evaluations of the institution's
performance based on the reports produced regarding achievements, the effectiveness of its operations and
operating costs. Reporting will also chart progress toward fulfillment of the gender, poverty and
HIV/AIDS goals agreed under the project. The committee can also call upon any persons or organizations
to give their views on FODECFA and its operations.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Current: Recent analytical work has been useful but mainly descriptive. It includes systematic inventories
of training providers carried out by the Observatory. The most recent inventory comprised information on
operating costs, fees currently charged to trainees, unit costs, as well as some measures of quality. This
- 12 -



assessment helped establish an initial roster of providers who could qualify for FODEFCA financing.
Additionally, several "one-off' studies had encouraging findings. One study identified a small group of
"beacon" providers which experience high demand and have a good record ofjob placement. Yet another
found that the demand for private sector providers has increased significantly in recent years, even though
costs have not been subsidized. The latter suggests that there is a potential for cost-sharing, although it
should be approached with caution since most of FODEFCA's customers are likely to be in the informal
sector and with limited means. Proposed: The proposed economic work to be conducted in the time frame
of the LIL has four main dimensions: (i) assessing the cost-effectiveness of programs; (ii) designing and
testing policies and mechanisms related to progressive cost-sharing by BGs and individuals; (iii) analyzing
demand and labor market trends and their implications for training (numbers of trainees, content and
proficiency levels); and (iv) evaluating the economic impact on trainees and employing firms in terms of
wages and productivity via longitudinal studies. Less obviously, (i) and (ii) will have implications for
public expenditure and investment reviews related to the public sector since light will be thrown on the
comparative advantages and efficiency of public sector providers.
The progressive development of M&E is a pre-requisite for economic work. However, the normal bias
will be toward feedback which improves the operations of the Fund, with the risk that economic analysis,
particularly the long term dimension remain a secondary priority. To ensure that it is given appropriate
attention, four working groups would be formed to design and implement a minimum program in each of
the four areas. Through a twinning arrangement, a specialized institution would be selected to guide the
working groups.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Fiscal Impact:
No special privileges are sought in terms of relief from the existing tax regime.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
Not applicable
4. Institutional:
Describe the institutional assessment that will be done.
4.1 Executing agencies:
An Institutional assessment of FODEFCA will be conducted for mid-project review.
4.2 Project management:
See 4.1 above
4.3 Procurement issues:
N/A
4.4 Financial management issues:
- 13-



N/A
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The proposed activities will contribute to the Government's poverty reduction objective to the extent that
training increases the incomes of beneficiaries from the informal sector. Gender equity will be addressed.
Women beneficiaries are expected to be sixty percent of the total number of trainees.
Considering the rapid progression of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Benin, which affects particularly the
young segment of the population and considering the multi-sectoral approach used in Benin to fight the
epidemic, all training programs will include a session pertaining to preventive rneasures against HIV/AIDS.
A consultant will be recruited to develop and deliver sessions on this subject. This person, in collaboration
with the Programme national de lutte contre le SIDA, will prepare the necessary IEC materials for the
sessions.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project preparation was undertaken by a tripartite team which included representatives from the public
sector, the productive sectors (modem, informal and agricultural), and fronm the workers. The policy
adopted was the result of a consensus. The same groups are represented in FODEFCA's Management
Committee.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The proposed project contracts out the delivery of training services to private sector providers and supports
capacity building of private providers to improve their services. Consultations with participating providers
are to be held quarterly in the context of supervision, and once a year for a discussion on monitoring and
evaluation results which is expected to yield agreed plans of action for adjustments to the program.
Beneficiaries, who can be individuals, economic groups or firms, are involved in the identification of their
- 14 -



training needs, in the selection of the training provider and in the monitoring and evaluation of their training
program.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
not applicable
6.5 How will the project monitor perfornance in terms of social development outcomes?
FODEFCA will monitor the proportion of program beneficiaries who are women, rural, and poor, as well
as the impact of the program in the medium term in increasing their income and access to employment. If
these groups are poorly represented, FODEFCA will step up its information and education campaign to
ensure increased access and participation.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy .                                   Applicability
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01,. GP 4.01)          Li Yes X No
EO Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   O Yes Z No
El Forestry (OP 4.36 GP 4.36)                                     O Yes Z No
O Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        l Yes Z No
EL Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  Oi Yes Z No
O Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     lI Yes 1 No
El involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            EO Yes O No
OL Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                              Li Yes Z No
|L Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   L Yes 1 No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60. GP 7.60)         L Yes RI No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
not applicable
-15-



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
FODEFCA fails to win the political and      H         Work to educate stakeholders about the project's
financial support of its stakeholders.                results. Ensure transparency and good
governance with regard to the grant award
system. Ensure Management Committee
(representing stakeholders) is trained to meet its
responsibilities.
Modem sector firms, paying the Taxe         M         Maintain an "open door" policy vis-A-vis the
d'apprentissage might waiver in their                 modem sector.. Adequate representation of the
support for FODEFCA unless they are                   sector in the Management Committee.
given appropriate access to FODEFCA's
grants.
From Components to Outputs
It proves difficult to identify beneficiary  M        Conduct regular campaigns and encourage
needs (the "market")                                  beneficiaries to further organize cooperative
groups. Keep the target population fully
informed of progress.
Insufficient good quality training          M         Supervise training delivery intensively in the
providers.                                            first weeks of providers work. Provide technical
advice and addtional trainign to training
providers as required.
Allocation and management of grants is      M         Ensure that performance standards are met
not efficient and transparent.                        (review time; quality of proposal evaluation).
Monitor beneficiary and tracking providers.
Publish attributions of all grant awards and end
of course evaluation.
Cost-sharing exceeds the financial          M         Monitor beneficiary attitudes; be flexible in
capacity of beneficiaries.                             adjusting cost-sharing percentages to capacity to
pay; timely budgeting to ensure any short-falls
that would affect operations.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 16-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Not applicable
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(a) Execution of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and FODEFCA.
(b) Initial deposit in a Project Account of 150 million FCFA to cover for the first year of project
expenditures from counterpart funds.
(c) Adoption of an Operational manual and an Administrative and Financial Manual by FODEFCA
satisfactory to IDA and the Government
(d) Recruitment of an independent auditor for the project.
(e) Establishment of a financial and accounting system satisfactory to IDA.
(f) Appointment of key staff of FODEFCA, namely, the administrative and financial chief, the studies and
information chief, the accountant, the procurement specialist, and the two vocational training advisors.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated covenant:
By June 30, 2001, FODEFCA shall adopt a methodology, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, for
the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of training programs.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O~ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 17-



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Qusmane Diagana                 /Rosemary Belle                      Hedi Larbi
-leam Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 18-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BENIN: Labor Force Development Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To Improve Private and Public Over the mediumterm:
Sector Performance        - Productivity increase, as    - tracer studies of program
measured by increased     beneficiaries              - financing continues beyond
earnings of firms and                               the LIL time frame
individuals due to training
- Rates of return on training   - FODEFCA and Observatory  - sound methodology and
investment compare favorably annual and semi-annual  robust data
with alternatives         reports
- Improved cost-effectiveness  - PERs focusing on public    - coordination with Economy,
of public and private training  sector training providers  Finance and Planning with
providers                                            regard to timely planning of
PERs and coverage of training
Follow-on Development
Objective
A streamlined, efficient public - Plan developed for
training sector budgeted at the "streamlining" the public
appropriate level         training sector;
- PERC (program budget)    - PERs and PERC capital and
allocations to VET are at    recurrent budgets
reasonable levels
An increasingly self-financed  Incentives designed to
private sector            promote private sector
training;
-19-



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome / Impact             Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To improve the availability,   - Informal sector workers  - Training program       - Effectiveness of M&E
quality and cost-effectiveness  and/or women are 60 per cent monitoring activities of
of labor force training,   of the beneficiaries         FODECFA                     - Continuing financial and
particularly those targeting the                                                   political support by
informal sector and women    - Number of qualified private - FODECFA annual "bilans"  Government and the
training providers                                      Stakeholders (firms, unions,
increased                   - Employer and beneficiary    BGs and associations) posited
surveys and assessments by    on recognition of
- Training programs are     the Observatory             FODECFA's usefulness
effective
- Unit costs meet norms and
are sustainable
- Cost-sharing reflects
financing capacity of
beneficiaries
-20 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
A. Training                - High completion and        - Field supervision by     - A smoothly functioning MC
Approximately              proficiency rates of trainees   FODECFA of ongoing      - Sufficient allocation of staff
25,000-workers in the      attained                    training with data collection   and resources to field
informal sector trained,   - Beneficiaries employed    on pre- and post tests, unit   supervision
respecting targeted        post-training               costs and placement
participation rates for poor                           -   .  .                    - idem for M&E
and women in the informal   - FODECFA procedures       - Periodic reports by
sectorenintheinformal   viewed as .FAr,equiea          FODEFCA's technical unit   - Regular updating of the
sector                     viewed as fair, equitable and                           registry of training providers
efficient, particularly with    - Employer surveys and  based on evaluation
regard to grants            beneficiary assessments by the
Observatory                - MC maintains policy of
. Beneficiary perceptions - Published results of grant   transparency
- Beneficiary perceptions of  aad
FODECFA are positive        awards
- Published annual reports and
minutes
- Annual financial and
technical audits
- Independent opinion polling
Sustainability of FODECFA's - End-of-project plans for
Sustaina                   scaling-up/maintaining      - PERs
operations                 operations are appraised as
operation are appraised as    - Investment and recurrent
feasible and sustainable   budget reviews under PERC
B. Monitoring and
Evaluation System
Component:
Development of a robust and  - Reports generated by M&E   - FODECFA reports on     - Institutional development
reliable M&E system to serve.            .       ..               ..
reliable MET    system to serve  are of high quality and timely  ongoing training based on  gives sufficient attention to
- Technical capacity in M&E  field supervision          establishing a local network in
- Technical capacity in M&E             ~~M&E and linking it to other
at the national level is    - Observatory reports related specialized institutions in the
enhanced                   to labor market surveys and   Region and overseas.
- Key studies meet         beneficiary assessments
professional standards (in
terms of methodology, data
collection procedures and
analytical techniques)
- Effective collaboration is
established between         -External evaluation of M&E
FODECFA and local resource by reviewers from similar
institutions (relative to  institutions in the Region
economic, social and        (FDFP; IEFP) and overseas
employment studies)
- 21 -



C. Institutional Development
Component:
A dynamic partnership      - Management Committee      - Annual "bilans" including   - Appropriate ID
between FODECFA, the       (MC) and staff are trained in  reports on ID            arrangements developed with
Observatory and the market  assessment techniques;     - nhuesresad                regional and international
for training                                           - tinterviews               training funds and labor
Sustainability of FODECFinteviewsobservatories and with
Sustalnability' of FODECFA   - Initial capacity building  - Reviews by key stakeholder  selected research institutions
operations                 plans are drawn up for      groups
FODECFA and the            - Mid-project institutional
Observatory;               assessment
- 22 -



Key Performance
Hierarch  of Objectives          Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. Training               US$3.4 million              Annual "bilans": Mid-term    - Timely availability of
reviews.                   financing through an efficient
system of grant award and
management
2. Monitoring and Evaluation US$0.7 million           Reports on the various     - Internalization of the
System.                                               dimensions of M&E          importance of M&E for
(supervision reports on    making a political and
specific programs; cost   financial "case" for
analysis; training outcomes/  FODECFA
entry skills; BGs assessments;
employment surveys.
3. Institutional Development  US$1.6 million          Annual "bilans" external
assessments.
- 23 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BENIN: Labor Force Development Project
The objective of this project is to develop and test institutional mechanisms for the financing, technical
support and evaluation of training programs, to be implemented by a new autonomous Fund, FODEFCA
(Fonds de Developpement de la Formation Proffessionnelle Continue et de lS4pprentisage). FODEFCA,
managed by representatives of govermment, the private sector and workers seeks to provide a flexible
response to training requests presented by the modem and informal sectors of the economy. The fund will
broker cooperative training partnerships between beneficiary groups (firms, cooperatives, grassroots
associations) and training providers, both private and public. In this pilot phase some 25,000 workers are
expected to be trained.
The proposed project comprises three components:
(a)    Training Grants;
(b)    Monitoring and Evaluation; and
(c)    Institutional Development.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.40 million
Training Grants
The Government of Benin is confronted by the challenge of improving the capacity of its human resources
and by improving as well as adapting, using a fast pace and ongoing process, the quality of its work force
in order to meet the needs of the productive sector and improve competitiveness. This situation is
compounded by the low level of training currently offered, the lack of a qualified work force and by a
training system in place that does not correspond and/or respond to the needs of the economy.
Unemployment, underemployment and poverty call for the necessity to promote reliable and sustainable
employment opportunities in the modern and informal sectors.
The Project will support training programs that would impact on labor and firms productivity and
competitiveness of the modem and informal sectors of the economy through the following four types of
training.
1.1    Training for the informal sector (non agricultural). The project will finance training activities for
craftmasters and their apprentices which will focus on: (a) developing performance capacity of
micro-enterprises while encouraging a transition toward the modern sector; (b) enhancing capacity for the
utilization of improved techniques of production better adapted to market demand; (c) improving stability
of workers; (d) increasing workers revenue. Areas of training will include tmanagement, marketing,
conception and design adapted to norms, functional literacy, security and hygiene norms. A total of seven
thousand workers from the informal sector will be trained.
1.2    Training for the agricultural sector. The project will finance training activities aimed at: (a)
increasing competitiveness of small producers; (b) improving purchasing power of small producers. This
will in turn contribute to local and regional development. Areas of training will include techniques of
high-yield production, techniques for the transformation of agricultural products, commercialization of
- 24 -



finish products and sub-products, maintenance and services, and techniques for environmental protection.
Functional literacy methodologies will be widely used for this component. A total of eight thousand
workers from the sector will be trained.
1.3    Training for facilitating entrance to the labor force. The project will finance: (a) training of
apprentices for specific occupations using alternate firm work - training center periods (five thousand
persons to be trained); (a) training to develop entrepreneurial skills among selected unemployed (five
hundred persons); and (c) programs to facilitate insertion in new jobs (five hundred persons).
1.4    Training for the modem sector. The project will finance training activities that would aim at
improving the productivity and competitiveness of firms by improving the skills of their work force. It will
also facilitate youth insertion in the sector's work force, encourage continuing training in the workplace,
and promote support of firms for training programs. Areas of training will include production techniques,
marketing, management, maintenance, quality control and norms for export promotion. It is expected that
four thousand workers will be trained for the moderm sector.
Implementation Framework.
Training programs are based on requests presented to the FODEFCA by beneficiary groups (workers,
micro-enterprises, unemployed, enterprises, ). Quality control of the training program proposals will be
carried out by the technical and administrative and financial units of the FODEFCA on the basis of
economic interest, social equity, technical feasibility and cost estimates and financial plan. Training
providers will be included in the annual registry of qualified training providers according to the following
set of criteria: (a) administrative: commercial registration, fiscal compliance, social security compliance,
adequate facilities, adequate accounting and financial system, accreditation from Ministry of Education to
private centers; (b) technical: minimum of two full-time trainers; pedagogical materials; provision of
training as the main activities and/or good references in the provision of training.
After training program proposals have been reviewed by the technical and administrative and financial
units of FODEFCA for quality purposes, they will be forwarded for the approval of (a) the Management
Committee (Comite de Gestion) if the budget exceeds 3 million Francs CFA; or (b) the Executive
Secretary (Secretaire Executij) if the budget is equal or less than 3 million Francs CFA. In the latter case,
the Executive Secretary, with the participation of the principal training officer (technical unit), and the
administrative and financial officer (administrative and financial unit), will review and approve the
financing of the training proposals. The minutes of the meeting will indicate the decisions made by the
Executive Secretary, and will be forwarded to the MC for information. The administrative and financial
unit, in collaboration with the technical unit, will then proceed with the recruitment of the training
providers.
For training proposals exceeding 3 million Francs CFA, the FODEFCA technical and administrative and
financial units will be responsible for inviting a short list of qualified training providers (public and private
training centers, and private firms) from the annual registry established by the technical unit to present
proposals according to the models set in the Operational Manual. The technical proposals will be evaluated
by FODEFCA according to a clear set of technical criteria. Proposals that meet the minimum technical
score required (as specified in the request for proposals), will have their financial offers evaluated. The
determination of contract award will be based on the final score according to the weights allocated to the
technical and financial offers.
For training proposals estimated to cost the equivalent or less than 3 million Francs CFA, a sole source
- 25 -



process may be used for the selection of training providers. Once the training provider is identified, the
beneficiary groups will be informed of the start-up of the activity on the basis of a contract with the said
provider. Beneficiaries will contribute 15 percent in cash of the total cost of the training program.
Mechanisms of co-financing are found in the Operational Manua.l.
Considering the rapid progression of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Benin, which affects particularly the
young segment of the population and considering the multi-sectoral approach used in Benin to fight the
epidemic, all training programs will include a session pertaining to preventive measures against HIV/AIDS.
A consultant will be recruited to present the session on this subject. This person, in collaboration with the
Programme national de lutte contre le SIDA, will prepare the necessary lE_C materials for the sessions.
Project Component 2 - US$0.70 million
Monitoring and Evaluation
A sound and reliable system for the monitoring and impact evaluation of training programs is a key element
for achieving the learning objectives of the proposed operation. The indicators that will be utilized to
monitor and evaluate performance appear in Annex 1. While most of these indicators will be produced
under this component, some of them will come as a result of the day-to-day operation of FODEFCA and
therefore they will be a direct by-product of activities programmed under the other two project components.
Among these are several indicators grouped under learning and innovation achievements. All the
outcome/impact indicators and all but one of the output indicators will be produced under this component.
production of this indicators will require the collection of information from different surveys and the
processing and analysis of this information.
While experience has been acquired in Benin for the collection of information in the context of surveys
covering the labor force, specific assessments of the effectiveness of training programs are almost
nonexistent and therefore a clear ranking of training priorities cannot currently be obtained in Benin.
Based on the experience, L'Observatoire de l'Emploi (OE) has acquired for the collection of information
about labor markets and training, it has been chosen as the institution that will undertake the process of
(impact and output) monitoring and evaluation and develop the capacity for establishing and operating the
corresponding system. The National Statistical Institute (INSAE), will also provide information from their
household surveys (including special modules) for the system.
In preparation for establishing the system, the GOB is starting the strengthening of OE with technical
assistance that will develop the methodology for the operation of the system, including analytical aspects
and methods, the definition of the type of surveys (existing and new) which will be used, the choice of
control groups and other aspects of data collection.
The system will produce reports, for the use of FODEFCA and broad distribution. Based on these reports,
FODEFCA will be able to assess the impact of the training programs which it has financed and reorient its
operation allocating resources to the programs which have a higher impact and demand. Besides reports on
the specific impact of training programs, OE will also produce labor market information that will allow to
track the evolution of the labor market and training priorities, and reports on the specific training needs of
selected dynamic branches of production (etudes defilhires). The project will finance technical assistance,
the preparation of reports and the conduction of surveys and surveys modules.
2.1 Monitoring and Evaluation of the Impact of Training Programs. The main objective of the
subcomponent is to obtain robust estimates of the changes on prodtictivity and earnings caused by training
- 26 -



program. The main new instrument to be used is a tracer study whereby beneficiaries of training programs
will be traced once a year after completing the training program to obtain information on their job status
and history, their earnings, acquisition and application of skills. Similar information will be obtained for a
comparison group. Information obtained from the household survey (including a special module financed
by the credit) will provide the basis for additional comparisons of selected indicators of training
beneficiaries with those of suitable control groups designed in advance.
At the start and completion of each training program, beneficiaries will be administered a test including
questions that will allow to measure knowledge/skills and to characterize the beneficiary for purposes of
identifying comparison groups, utilizing information of other surveys, and obtaining more reliable (robust)
estimates of the impact of training. The pretest and test will be conducted by the training provider under
the supervision of FODEFCA.
Information from the tracer studies will be complemented with information from firm surveys to assess the
impact of training. Indicators will include productivity and turnover (total revenues) increases, gains in
average earnings per worker and job creation. While these might not be directly attributable to training,
they provide grounds for additional comparisons. Cost-benefit analysis of FODEFCA's programs will
evaluate the presented discounted value of gains against the cost of the program.
2.2. Annual Labor Markets. Employment and Training Report. There are several labor market and
employment reports which are being produced on a regular basis in Benin. However, the information
provided in these reports cannot currently be applied in a straightforward manner to assist decision making
on training investments. Under this subcomponent, the project will finance the preparation of an annual
report that will consolidate and analyze all the labor market and employment information being collected in
the country which is relevant for guiding FODEFCA's decisions. A preliminary task will be the
preparation of the detailed outline for the report, including the definition of the variables to be considered
with an indication of their relevance and potential use.
2.3. Specific Training Needs in Selected Areas (Etudes de FiliWres). This subcomponent will finance
studies required for identifying the types of skills which are critical for high growth sectors. OE will
establish an exchange with a specialized institution which has demonstrated capacity to undertake this kind
of analysis (e.g. a French Observatoire de 1'Emploi). One productive branch will be selected to conduct a
first study by the OE assisted by the specialized institution. OEF will thereafter identify new branches for
analysis based on their potential impact assessed from the initial results obtained under subcomponent 2.1.
Financial resources will have to be mobilized for the new studies as needed.
Implementation Framework
The Observatoire de 1'Emploi will be responsible for implementing the activities under this subcomponent,
with the exception of the information collection for the pretest and test surveys as described in
subcomponent 2.1. Besides the specific technical assistance described above, OE will receive additional
support under Component 3 of the Credit to support the delivery of the described activities.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.10 million
(of which USS.5 for PPF)
Institutional Development
Although FODEFCA has been created by Decree since February 1999, it is not yet operational.
- 27 -



Strengthening activities for FODEFCA covered under the Project involve the establishment of the
Secretariat Executive through (a) recruitment of key personnel (Secretaire Executif, Administrative and
Financial, Technical, and Studies/IEC Units, support staff); (b) equipment and materials; (c) necessary
operating support; and (d) technical assistance for smooth project implementation (i.e., procurement
specialist, infonnation technology specialist, audit support for program monitoring and evaluation).
A key objective of the LIL is to learn how well its organization, systems and procedures serve its
institutional goals. However, Institutional Development will have to be a continuing activity, based on
formative evaluation of its operations. To limit the risk that FODECFA go off track in its initial period of
operation, it is proposed that the MC and senior staff be trained both with regard to their specific
responsibilities but also in the area of institutional assessment, with a view to the MC conducting regular
self-evaluation on the basis of a half-yearly "bilan" of achievements, the effectiveness of its operations and
operating costs. The Credit would finance ID assessment training, related studies, as well as the provision
of "facilitators" to assist and advise the MC in the half-yearly evaluations.
Furthermore, the Directorate for In-service Vocational Training (Direction de la Formation
Professionnelle Continue, DFPC) will play a key role in coordinating and ensuring that activities meet the
government's strategy expressed in its national policy on Vocational Training. DFPC ensures the
monitoring of the policy's implementation and defines new orientation of such policy as it may be required.
Strengthening activities for DFPC foreseen under the Project are: (a) staff training; (b) some equipment and
materials; and (c) necessary operating support.
L'Obseivatoire de l'Emploi is the only entity in Benin that has some experience in labor market studies. Its
capacity must therefore be strengthened to handle adequately the specific studies and surveys in the context
of the M&E system to be established. Twining arrangement between the Observatory and sub regional and
overseas observatories will be developed to promote networking, learning activities and staff exchanges.
The strengthening activities for l'Observatoire to be financed under the Project will cover: (a) technical
assistance (foreign and national); (b) study tours to allow for exchanges and coordination with other
observatories; (c) training, workshops; (d) equipment and materials; and (e) necessary operating support.
Training Centers (private and public) that will deliver the training programs as stated under Component I
(Provision of Training) above, must first be selected through a competitive process among firms included in
a registry of qualified training centers that meet eligibility criteria (i.e., qualified teaching personnel,
adequate training equipment and materials, teaching facilities, etc.). However, a good number of training
centers suffer from lack of qualified personnel to provide training (i.e., program content, teaching skills).
To allow for training centers to offer training that meet standards of quality and meet the eligibility criteria
for inclusion in the registry, it is proposed that the Project will finance the first year of its implementation a
study to determine the needs for training of trainers and related modalities of implementation. The result of
the study will determine the programs for the training of trainers that could start the second year of the
project in light with study's recommendation.
Implementation Framework
The Executive Secretariat of FODEFCA (Administrative and Financial and Technical Units) will be
responsible to procure equipment, recruit technical assistance, and arrange for training to take place upon
requests received from the beneficiaries provided that these activities meet those agreed upon and presented
in the project calendar of implementation found in the Operational Manual. However, because of its
nature, the LIL should offer flexibility in the financing of activities during the course of project
implementation, according to lessons leamed, and the needs and demands that may arise.
- 28 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BENIN: Labor Force Development Project
1   Local   !  Foreign         Total
Proet Cost By Compoen               _US $million   US $million    US $million
1. Provision of Training                                  3.20    !    0.00         3.20
2. Monitoring and Evaluation System                       0.40         0.20         0.60
3. Strengthening Institutional Capacity                   1.40         0.10         1.50
4. Refinancing of PPF                                     0.50         0.00         0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                       5.50         0.30         5.80
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.40        000          0.40
Total Project Costs              5.90         0.30         6.20
Total Financing Required              5.90          0.30  _      6.20
Local   1  Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category               US $million   US $million   US $million
Goods                                                      0.40           0.00 I       0.40
Works                                                       0.10          0.00         0.10
Services                                                   0.80           0.30         1.10
Training                                                    3.60          0.00         3.60
Operating Costs                                            0.50           0.00         0.50
Refinancing of PPF                                         0.50           0.00         0.50
Total Project Costs     5.90          0.30          6.20
Total Financing Required      5.90  _       0.30         6.20
- 29 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
BENIN: Labor Force Development Project
Summary of benefits and costs:
N/A
Main Assumptions:
N/A
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
N/A
- 30 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BENIN: Labor Force Development Project
Years Ending
_Year I   Year 2  1Year 3       Year 4     Year 5     Year 6    YearO7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.6         1.7        1.7       1.7        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.1        0.0        0.2        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           0.6        1.8        1.7        1.9       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               0.6        1.8        1.7        1.9       0.0        0.0       0-0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   0.5        1.3        1.6        1.6        0.0       0.0       0.0
Govemment                  0.1        0.4        0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.1        0.4       0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.1        0.2        0.2        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.6        1.8        1.9        1.9       0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Not applicable
- 31 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BENIN: Labor Force Development Project
Procurement
1.        Procurement Capacity Assessment. Although created by decree in February 1999, FODEFCA
has not yet become operational. The administrative and financial unit of FODEFCA will be responsible for
the administrative, procurement, and financial management of the Project under the authority of the Executive
Secretary. At this time, all procurement activities under the PPF are handled by the accountant of the
Directorate of the In-service Vocational Training (Direction de la Formation Professionnelle Continue,
DFPC) in the Ministry of Civil Service, Labor, and Administrative Reform. Very little procurement activities
until project start up remain besides a few studies, and the recruitment of FODEFCA personnel and technical
assistance as required under project conditionalities to accelerate project: start-up. The pre-appraisal team
recommends that the recruitment process of a procutement specialist be undertaken immediately. The
procurement specialist, whose recruitment is a condition of effectiveness, will receive training in the Bank's
procurement procedures. In view of this, a formal Procurement Capacity Assessment could not be undertaken
as part of project appraisal, but will be carried out one month after credit effectiveness when FODEFCA will
have become operational. Possible remaining weaknesses will be addressed at that time. Govemment will
finance most goods and building improvement for FODEFCA. Procurement for these items will be carried out
in accordance with national procurement procedures which are acceptable to IDA. An Operational Manual for
Public Sector Procurement acceptable to IDA was adopted by Arrete (no. 057/MFE/DC/DGML/DMP of
February 14, 2000) of the Ministry of Economy and Finance as part of the Public Expenditure Reform Credit
(PERC) operation.
2.        Procurement Planning. A draft procurement plan was agreed upon during negotiations and is
part of the Project Operational Manual.
3.        Procurement Implementation Arrangements. All procurement of goods and consultant services
financed by the IDA Credit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, lastly revised in January 1999 (Procurement Guidelines), and
Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, lastly revised in
January 1999 (Consultant Guidelines). The DFPC has transmitted a draft Project Operational Manual. The
adoption of the Manual satisfactory to IDA, which will include an overview of procurement mechanisms and
plans for FODEFCA, is a condition of effectiveness.
4.        The administrative and financial unit of FODEFCA will be responsible for overall procurement,
including the preparation of bid documents for goods, technical specifications, and request for proposals,
terms of reference, and contracts with consultants. The tasks will also comprise: (a) maintaining a register of
all interested bidders (training providers and suppliers); (b) establishing and maintaining a detailed list of
technical specifications for goods to be financed by the project; (c) updating the procurement plan to be
prepared for negotiations; (d) preparing and/or finalizing the bidding documents and requests for proposals;
(e) evaluating bid and preparing evaluation reports; (f) handling contract approval and management; and (g)
maintaining a database of price references of local goods.
Procurement Methods
5.        Goods. Government will finance most of the goods to be procured for FODEFCA in accordance
with national procurement procedures which are acceptable to I:DA. Vehicles (US$ 100,000), which can be
- 32 -



competitively procured nationally, will be procured through NCB using the Bank's Standard Bidding
Document for Goods suitably modified. Alternatively, vehicles may be procured through IAPSO
(Inter-Agency Procurement Services Offices of the UNDP). Goods estimated to cost less than US$ 10,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate of US$50,000 equivalent, may be procured through National Shopping in
accordance with Bank procedures on the basis of written quotations obtained from at least three qualified
suppliers. Specialized software (Monitoring and Evaluation System) estimated to cost about US$10,000
equivalent may be procured through the Limited International Bidding procedure.
6.        Works. Contracts for works (improvement of the office building for FODEFCA estimated at
US$100,000 equivalent) will be financed by the Government and procured in accordance with national
procurement procedures acceptable to IDA.
7.    Consulting Services. Consultants for services will be recruited for: (a) FODEFCA project
management, including monitoring and evaluation, procurement, financial management and accounting; (b)
studies; (c) project audits; and (d) training. Consulting assignments will include long-term positions for
FODEFCA professional staff and short-term positions not exceeding six months, and for specific missions
(including studies and training). Simplified Requests for Proposals acceptable to IDA for the hiring of
individual consultants will be used. The following selection procedures will be used:
(a)    Quality- and cost-based selection: Consultants for training will be recruited using the
quality- and cost-based selection procedure. Consulting services estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultant firms in accordance with paragraph 2.7 of
the Consultant Guidelines provided that a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at
competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from
consideration.
(b)    For audits, the Least-cost Selection will be used by which the firmn with the lowest price will
be selected, provided that its technical proposal received the minimum score required.
(c)   Individual Consultants will be selected in accordance with Part V of the Guidelines for the use
of consultants through comparison of curriculum vitae against job description of those expressing interest in
the assignrnent, or having been identified directly by the Borrower. Consultants hired under the project cannot
be civil servants.
(d)    Single-Source selection method may be used in exceptional circumstances for training which
are estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, and with IDA's prior approval.
(e)    The training centers used for skill enhancement of qualified and eligible candidates will be
selected on the basis of written proposals subject to IDA's prior approval.
Prior Review
8.    Goods. All IDA-financed good contracts and all corresponding bidding documents under NCB
procedures costing US$50,000 equivalent or more, and contracts for the procurement of specialized software
(monitoring and evaluation system) to be purchased under limited international bidding will be subject to
IDA's prior review.
9.    Consultant Services. Consulting assignments, with firms and individuals, that cost more than
- 33 -



US$50,000 and US$25,000, respectively,-per contract will be subject to prior review by IDA.
Post Review
10.    Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds as specified above will be
maintained by the administrative and financial unit of FODEFCA for post review by auditors and by IDA
supervision missions. The unit will be required to maintain all relevant procurement documentation for
subsequent review by IDA. The unit will submit to IDA a periodic procurement plan detailing each
procurement package in progress and completed as part of the normal project reporting exercise.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expndtw  Caegr              v     G             NCB            ORthr3    0     i f-l N.El.F.  T otal Cost
1. Works                             0.00            0.00            0.10           0.00           0.10
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.10            0.35           0.00           0.45
(0.00)         (0.10)          (0.05)         (0.00)          (0.15)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00            4.70           0.00           4.70
Training, and Studies                (0.00)         (0.00)          (4.15)         (0.00)          (4.15)
4. Operating Costs *                 0.00            0.00            0.50           0.00           0.50
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.20)         (0.00)          (0.20)
5. Reflnancing of PPF                0.00            0.00            0.50           0.00           0.50
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.50)         (0.00)          (0.50)
Total                             0. 00           0.10            6.15           0.00           6.25
(0.00)         (0.10)          (4.90)         (0.00)          (5.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
i' Other procurement methods include national/international shopping, direct contracting, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the FODEFCA, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to project management, implementation, supervision, office supplies,
communications costs, office machinery and vehicle maintenance and operating costs, and spare parts,
travel and allowances of Project staff, and contractual staff. It excludes salaries of officials of the
Borrower's civil service.
- 34 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subect to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousarnds)            Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        N.A.                     N.A.                     N.A.
2. Goods                   Equal or less than            NCB                   US$100,000
2.lVehicles                  US$100,000                                       (all contracts)
2.2 Small items. spare   Less than US$10,000      National Shopping or         Post-review
parts, documentation,                                   IPO(S5,0
training materials                                      IPO(S5,0
2.3 Specialized softwares   Less than US$10,000
National or international    Prior review
shopping               (US$ 10,000)
3. Services
3.1 Firms                 Equal or more than        QCBS/Least-Cost           Total amount:
US$50,000                                  US$450,000; Prior review
for contract equivalent at
US$50,000 or more
3.2 Individuals           Equal or more than        Curriculum Vitae          Total amount:
US$25,000                                  US$750,000; Prior review
for contract equivalent at
US$25,000 or more
3.3 Training Providers     Equal or less than     QCBS/Single-source          Total amount
US$50,000                                  US$3,500,000; All post
review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$0.5 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement risk is high because of FODEFCA has not been established. This high risk is mitigated by
the required recruitment of a qualified procurement specialist and IDA's prior review requirements.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 35 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
11.    Financial Management. Because FODEFCA has not yet become operational, the project will begin with
traditional financial management and disbursement arrangements through a Special Account and SOEs. The
administrative and financial unit will, however, be required to submit annual business plan (program of activities,
annual budget and provisional accounts) for review and approval of IDA two months before the beginning of each
fiscal year. The financial component of the business plan will detail operating expense financing, to specify,
among other things, loan fund proceeds and the capital mobilized by the FODEFCA itself. This should be in
coherence with the project financing plan. The unit will also be required to produce financial quarterly activity
reports. With regard to training grants, "ensuring the effectiveness, equity and transparency of financial
transactions is key to the success of FODECFA's approach. The mnaximum grant amount would be FCFA 30
million. Grant proposals would be reviewed by a review committee comprising the technical unit and the
administrative and financial unit of FODECFA. After review of any grant proposal over FCFA 3 million, the
Executive Secretary would present his recommendation to the entire MC which is fully representative of the
stakeholders and publishes its decisions. Below FCFA 3 million, the Executive Secretary would make the grant
award on the basis of the review committee's finding, informing the Board. No grant recipient would receive more
than an initial 30 per cent advance, with subsequent "tranches" being released only on the basis of satisfactory
progress reports and verification of expenditures by the contracted field supervision staff. Annual reports and
end-of-project reports would provide full disclosure of information on trainees, results and costs. Additionally,
annual audits of the grant disbursements and procedures would be complemented by technical, operational audits
of a sample of ongoing and completed training projects, linking expenditures to activities and objects of
expenditures. The technical auditors would interview beneficiary group representatives about the effectiveness of
the grant award and management procedures. FODEFCA will send a field mission to review progress in course
organization and execution and to account for the use of disbursed funds. After 18 months of project
implementation, the financial management system and reporting system will be assessed for compatibility with the
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI); the appropriate changes will be made to the systems to make them
LACI compliant, including reworking the quarterly activity reports into Project Management Reports (PMRs). An
agreed action plan for the establishment of a financial and accounting management system in compliance with
LACI requirement is found in Annex 11.
12.    Disbursement. Disbursement will be made for goods and services that are eligible for IDA financing.
The US dollar will be considered an eligible currency for bidding and payment (paragraphs 2.29 and 2.32 of the
Procurement Guidelines) and it will also be acceptable for consultant services payment. The allocation of Credit
Proceeds is presented in Table C. The Table indicates the disbursement schedule, the amounts (in US$) for each
expenditure category and the disbursement percentage applicable to each. The disbursement percentage have been
calculated on a tax-exclusive basis. Operating Costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of
project implementation, management and supervision by the central level, including office supplies,
communication costs, office machinery and vehicle maintenance and operating costs, and spare parts, travel and
allowances, and contractual staff. It excludes salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
- 36 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                   0.10             100 % of foreign expenditures and
90% of local expenditures
2. Consultants' Services, audits,          1.00                         100%
training and studies
3. Operating Costs                         0.20          90% of costs incurred from the Effective
Date to December 31, 2001; 80% of
costs incurred in 2002; and
70% of costs incurred thereafter
4. Grants for training programs            2.70                100% of amounts disbursed
5. Refinancing of PPF                      0.50
6. Unallocated                             0.50
Total Project Costs                        5.00
Total                                      5.00
13.   Statements of Expenditures (SOEs . All withdrawal applications submitted for disbursements of
funds for eligible expenditures will be fully documented. However, the Borrower will be authorized to submit
withdrawal applications on the basis of statement of expenditures (SOEs) for contracts of less than
US$50,000 of goods and less than US$50,000 for consultants' services for firms, and less than US$25,000
equivalent for individuals, and for training and operating costs. All supporting documentation for such
withdrawal applications claimed on the basis of SOEs will be retained by the administrative and financial unit
of FODEFCA and will be readily available for review by visiting IDA missions and external auditors. All
claims for expenditures above the limits of SOE expenditures indicated above would be eligible for direct
payment.
14.   Special Account. The authorized allocation amounts to CFAF 300,000,000 million and covers about
four months of eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness, an amount of CFAF 150,000,000 million
representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation will be deposited in the Special Account, established in a
commercial bank with terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The remaining balance will be made available
when the total amount withdrawn from the credit amount and/or special commitments issued arnounts to the
equivalent of SDR 1,500,000 of the total credit amount. Special Account will be used for application amount
below 20 percent of Special Account deposit, otherwise direct payment process will be used. Replenishment
requests will be submitted on a monthly basis. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31,
2003 (closing date).
15.   Auditing. The FODEFCA will maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices acceptable to IDA. An annual audit report of project accounts, prepared by independent.auditors
acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with the Bank document Financial Account Reporting and Auditing
Handbook, January 1995, will be submitted to IDA no more than six months after completion of each fiscal
year. Semi-annual audit reports of the Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be submitted within three
months of each period. The recruitment of an independent auditor is a condition of effectiveness.
16.    Conditionalities. As conditions of effectiveness, Government will (a) deposit counterpart funds of 150
- 37 -



million CFAF to cover the first year of expenditures; (b) establish FODEFCA's financial management and
accounting system; (c) recruit and independent auditor for the project; and (d) adopt the Administrative and
Financial Manual.
17.   Monitoring and Reporting. FODEFCA will prepare the financial component of the business plan
which will include operating expense financing, specifying, among other things, loan fund proceeds and the
capital mobilized by FODEFCA. FODEFCA will also submit a quarterly financial activity report, one month
after the end of each quarter, presenting a summary of sources of uses of funds, procurement/contracts
schedule and statement and summary of expenditures by component and by category.
- 38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BENIN: Labor Force Development Project
Proc Scdule                                       Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      60                           60
First Bank mission (identification)             12/13/94                     12/13/94
Appraisal mission departure                     05/17/2000                   05/24/2000
Negotiations                                    05/22/2000                   06/01/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/31/2000                   10/31/2000
Prepared by:
Project preparation including drafting of the policy and of the Fund basic organizational structure was conducted
by a tripartite team under the coordination of the Directorate for In-service Vocational Training (Direction de la
Formation Professionnelle Continue, DFPC) of the Ministry of Public Service, Labor and Administrative Reform.
The team consisted of the National Council of Private Enterprises (Conseil National du Patronat), the Chamnber of
Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Agriculture, and the National Federation of Association of Artisans as
representatives of employers; four representatives from the Union Federations of the country for the workers; and
representatives of key ministries (labor, plan, education, industry, craft, finance).
The Project was identified in December 1994, when at that time, a traditional investment lending operation was
considered. Delays in project preparation was caused by a reorientation of the project scope and objectives that
focus essentially on the informal sector rather than the formal/modem sector of the economy, this as a result of
studies financed under the PHRD grant and PPF.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant (TF029250, October 2, 1995), and Project Preparation Facility Advance (PPF P943-0-BEN, August
1995),
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Spechlity,
Ousmane Diagana                   Task Team Leader and Financial and Institutional Management
Bemardo Kugler                    Labor Force and Human Resource Specialist
Johanne Angers                    Project Management and Implementation, and Project Processing
Hugues Agossou                    Financial Management
Jean-Charles de Daruvar           Legal Aspects and Negotiations
Agnes Alberth-Loth                Disbursement and Financial Management
Michael J. Wilson                 Management Specialist (Consultant)
- 39 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BENIN: Labor Force Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Operational Manual and Administrative and Financial Manual, December 1999
Calendar of FODEFCA Staff recruitment.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide memoires:
Preparation mission, September 1999
Pre-appraisal mission, March 20-April 13, 2000
The Labor Market in Benin and Labor Force Training. Consultant Report by Julia 1. Lane and Jules J.M.
Theeuwes, April 2000.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Consultant Report by Julia 1. Lane and Jules J.M. Theeuwes, April 2000.
C. Other
PPF package, August 22, 1995.
Countersigned PPF letter (addendum to allow for financing of operating costs), December 17, 1996.
PHRD Grant Agreement, October 2, 1995.
Decree on FODEFCA statuts, February 12, 1999 (decree no. 99-053).
Draft decree on the statuts of the Observatoire de l'Emploi.
Ministere du Plan de la Restructuration Economique et de la Promotion de 1'Emploi. INS. Suivi des
Caracteristiques et Comportements des Menages Urbains en Situation d'Adiustement Structurel. 1996
and 1997
PNUD. Situation et Perspectives de la Population Active et de l'Emploi au Benin (1979-2002). 1998
Ministere du Plan de la Restructuration Economique et de la Promotion de l'Emploi. Observatoire de
l'Emploi. Structure de l'Emploi dans le Secteur Moderne Urbain. 1995 and 1997
Ministere du Plan de la Restructuration Economique et de la Promotion de l'Emploi. Observatoire de
I'Emploi: Inventaire des Besoins de Formation dans les secteurs Formel et Informel. 1997
Ministere de la Fonction Publique, du Travail et de la Reforme Administrative. Proiet d'appui au
developpement de la formation professionnelle continue; Document de politigue nationale de formation
professionnelle continue. August 1998.
Ministere d'Etat Charge de la Coordination de l'Action Gouvernementale, du Plan, du Developpement et
de la Promotion de l'Emploi. Observatoire de l'Emploi; Tableau de bord sur l'emploi. 1998 and 1999.
Ministere du Plan de la Restructuration Economique et de la Promotion de l'Emploi. Observatoire de
l'Emploi; Evaluation des capacites et des cou2ts des prestations des centres de formation. October 1999.
Ministere du Plan de la Restructuration Economique et de la Promotion de l'Emploi. Observatoire de
l'Emploi; Inventaire des capacites nationales de formation continue. July 1997.
Ministere du Plan de la Restructuration Economique et de la Promotion de l'Emploi. Observatoire de
l'Emploi: Analyse des secteurs dvnamiques de l'conomie en matiere d'emploi au Benin. January 1999.
Ministre du Plan de la Restructuration Economique et de la Promotion de l'Emploi, Observatoire de
l'Emploi, and GTZ. Etude sur la trajectoire des ex-stagiaires beneficaires du stage de preinsertion
professionnelle. January 1999.
Including electronic files
-40-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BENIN: Labor Force Development Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                      IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frn Rev'd
P035648       1999 Benin                      1ST DECEN.CITY MGMT.                              0.00      25.50       0.00     25.40       3.91       0.00
P057345       1998 Benin                     BORGOU PILOT RSP                                   0.00       4.00       0.00       3.39      1.83       0.00
P067329       2000 Benin                      Dstance Learning Project - LIL                    0.00       1.83       0.00       1.79      0 00       0.00
P000103       1994 Benin                      EDUCATIONDEVELOPMEN                               0.00      1810        0.00       845       843        706
P000112       1995 Benin                     ENV. MANAGEMENT PROJ                               000        8.00       0.00       4.27      2.69       2.55
POOO99       1994 Senin                     FOOD SECURITY                                      0.00       9 70       0.00       0.76      0.52       0.52
P000118       1995 Benin                     POPULATIONANDHEALT                                 0.00      27.80       0.00      17.28     18.65      17.66
P000108       1991 Benin                     POWER REHAB                                        0 00      15.00       0.00       3.36      2.53       0.00
P039882       2000 Benin                     PRIVATE SECTOR                                     0 00      30.40       0.00     29.85       0.00       0.00
P000120       1993 Benin                     RURALCREDITII                                      000        3.80       0.00       1.43      1 37       1.37
P000121       1994 Benin                     RURALWATERSUPPLY&                                  0.00       9.80       0.00       3.70      3.78       3.77
P035645       1998 Benin                     SOCIALFUND                                         0.00      1670        0.00      1324       -0.33     -2.44
P000117       1997 Benin                     TRANSPORT SECTOR                                   0.00      40.00       0.00      20 58     12.96       0.00
Total:       0.00      210.63        0.00      133.50     56.34     30.49
BENIN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval               Company                                  Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic        Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic
1991/93/95                AEF BOAB                                  0.00       0.00       0.02       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.02       0.00
1995                      AEF Union Benin                           0.00       0.08       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.08       0.00       0.00
1994                      Equipbail-Benin                           0.00       0.10       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.10       0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                 0.00        0.18       0.02       0.00       0.00        0.18       0.02       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                      Loan        Equity        Quasi         Partic
1999                     SOBAC                                         0.00         0.00        79.22          0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                    0.00          0.00        79.22          0.00
- 41 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BENIN: Labor Force Development Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan      Low.       S
Benin     Africa   Income       Development diamond'
I 998
PoDulat,on mid-vesr (millionss)                          6 a       6?8      3 StS                  Life expectancy
G.NP nor nrnita tAtfas method USSI                      38s       4Asn         20
CNP (Atlas method /iS4 billions)                         2 3       304      1 ri44
Aver8ae annual arowth. t992-9S
Porn,ation t%)                                           29         7 F       1 7
Labor force (%l                                          2 9        2 6        1 9     GNP           /                    Gross
Most recent estimat. f/stest vear avai/able. 1992-98/                                  Pell                             primary
capita                         frImn
Povertv 1% of ooouletlon below national Dovertv line)     33
Ilrhan nnlaetionn (e ottotal oooulation/                  41        33         31
M ifA eAr.n.tancv at hirth (vearsl                        53        51         63
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                  88        91         69
Child malniutrition f% of chi/dren under 51               29                                     Access to safe water
Access to sate water f% of oooulation)                    72        47         74
Illiteraey (% of oooulation aoe 15+1                     6S         42         32
Gross orimarv enrollment (%of school/-oe coou/ation)      78         77       108       --Benin =         Low-incomegroup
Ma/te                                                   57         4        113
Female                                                 87         65        103..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998       _
Economic ratios'
GDP fUSS bi/llons)o 08                                   1 6        21        2 3
rrnoss domestim investment/rGOP                17 a     12 9       1 .s     17i 1
EsDorts of ooods and services/GDP             23 5      29 3       24 9      23 3                      Trade
Gro,anSsdmesticsavinns/7t-nP                    n9       35         55        83
t1rnso natinnal savinn,/G.nP                             7 0       13 n      11 1
Current acrnti hbalance/GrOP                  -17 0     .69        -5 2       .4 9,
Interest oavmentrADP                           n 1       1 0        n F                Doniestic                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 22 3     76 4       75 9      71 4      Say ngs
Tntal debt Iervice/ennr/6                       1 5      7 5        9 n       9 5
Present value of debt/GOP                                          45 1
Present vatue nf rotltwnirors                ts159 2
Indebtedness
1977-87  19S8-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(averaoe annual arowth)
t;DP                                  4 1       4 1          7      4             4enin                    Low-income group
GNP oer caoita                        0 a       1 2      2 8        1 6       7 2 2_    _                           :-
Exoorts of onods and services         2 9       1.0      2.2       -1 0       60 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
f% of GDP)                                                                             75
Anr,culltulre                                 31 9      33 3       35 4      38 s      0 -.
Indostrv                                       12 6     12 4       13 s      13 s      25 -
Mantifar.ntirinn                              9 n      7 2        A4 A          2    25         _               _ .
ServiceRs                                      1556,    54 4       47 7      479i                ""
.25     93          9/   96   97   98
Private consuimntinn                           90 7     sn05       79 R      82       -50
General novernmrnt nnsumontion                  53      155        1n4        9                        GGD           8O-GOP
Imoorts of ooods and services                 40 3      38 6       33 6      32 1                 _
(averaoe annual orowt/t/                   1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports andl Imports (%)
Aariculture                                     3 8      51         5 6       6 7      so
Industrv                                        61       4 6        4 4       o 51    25
Manufacturino                                 3 2       5 9       5.6        3tt
Services                                        3 9      3 2        6 2       3        0   -
Private consumetion                             1 6      4 2        4 3       9 3     -25                       i6   97   98
tGeneral onvernment consumetion                 5 4      2 6        4 2       -4 6
Gross domestic investment                       08       6 3       16 3       .2 5    .5s
lmoorts of ooods and services                 -1 8       2 7        3 7       68                     Exports    -    Imports
Gross national oroduct                          3 9      4 1        5 8       4 6
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv /in bold) comoared wi/h its income-orcouD averaoe If data are missina the diamond will
be incomsle/e
- 42 -



Benin
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998     Inflation I%)
Domestic prices                                                                       so
(% change)                                                                            40-
Consumer prices                                                     3.8       5.8    30-
Implicit GDP deflator                           5.2      3.0        4.7       4.2    2r-
Govemment finance                                   oi
(% of GDP, includes curent grants)                                                     o
Current revenue                                15.0     12.9       15.7      16.1             93    94    95    99   97   98
Current budget balance                          2.8     11.3        3.6       5.2                -GDP deflator    *-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        -4.2     11.3       -3.1      -0.7
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      366       400       406      750
Cotton                                                  50        199       193
Crude oil                                              11          7         1     s      * 
Manufactures                                                                               *
Total imports (cif)                                      545       641       662
Food                                                   182        112       116     25         0                     9_
Fuel and energy                                         33         72        74
Capitalgoods                                           130        206       212       o_
92   93   94       9  9    9
ExDort DoCe index (1995=1001                              32        93        95
Imoortoriceindex(1995=1001                               44        103       101                *Exports     MImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 74        90        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
EUSS  o         nislions5
Ixports of goods and services                  162       457       532       557
Importsoftgoods and servces                    327      602        713       735*                    *    *     *    *     -
Resource balance                              -165      -145      -180      -178      -2
Net income                                       0       -29       -30       -29
Net currenttransfers                            38    81    100    94   4__I
Current account balance                       -127       -93       -110     -113      ^
Financing items (net)                          128        58       126       146
Changes in net reserves                          0        35        -16       -34     _
Memo:
Reserves indudina aold (USS millions)            ..       ..       212       266
Conversion rate (DEC. locaWIUSSI              245.7    300.5      583.7    589.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
IUSS millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           167    1.194       1,624     1,647
IBRD                                           0        0          0         0                      G: 85
IDA                                           32      196        510       543                  F4
Total debt service                               4        41        55        60                                     a. 543
IBRD                                           0        0          0         0
IDA                                            0        2          7         8         E5533
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               14       58        125         -.
Official creditors                            31       57         23        32
Private creditors                              -1      -2          0         0                                     c:94
Foreign direct investment                      3        0          3                                      k
Portfolio equRy                                0         0         0                                D 388
World Bank program
Commitments                                   17       48          0         0      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  7       22         20        20      B - IDA    0 - Other mulUlateral   F - Pnvate
Prncipal repayments                            0         0         4         4      r - IMF                       r -
Netflows                                       7       21         16        16
Interest payments                              0         '         4         4
Net transfers                                  7       20         12        12
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/17/99
- 43 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Plan d'actions pour la mise en place d'un systWme d'information comptable et financiere informatise
repondant aux besoins du LACI et l'audit du FODEFCA.
- Negociation du projet mai 2000
- Equipe de gestion en place en juillet 2000
- Mise en place du systeme de gestion conforme au LACI fin aout 2000
- Application de l'ancien systnme de gestion concomitamTnent avec le systeme LACI pendant les 6 mois
suivants le demarrage (fin juin 2001)
- Evaluation A mi-parcours fin juin 2001 et six mois supplementaires d'apprentissage
- Passage au LACI au plus tard des 2002.
No. ACTIONS                           INSTANCE    RESULTAT                       DATE          INDICATEUR
_ ______________ RESPONSABLE ATTENDU                                   Bu_TOIR
I   Recrutement du Responsable du    Comite de gestion   Du personnel qualifie    Fih juillet 00  Avis de l'IDA sur les
Service Administratif et Financier, FODEFCA         recrute suite A un                    candidats retenus
du speialiste en passation de                       processus transparent d'
marches et du comptable:                            appel a la concurrence
- Elaboration et revue des TDR   FODEFCAtlDA                                12104/2000    TDR soumis A l'IDA pour
avis
- Publication                                                               05/06/2000    Avis de candidature dans la
presse
- Selection                                                                 24/07/2000
place du logiciel de gestion     FODEFCA            dote d'outils de gestion              consultant
comptable, financiere et de suivi                   qui facilitent la
evaluathon:                                         production et le suivi en
conformite avec les
exigences du LACI.
- Elaboration et revue des TDR   FODEFCA/IDA        - TDR exhaustif         13/)4/2000    (Dossier de consultation -
- Consultation restreinte                                                   13/04/201)0    TDR - liste restreinte-projet
- Selection                                         - Choix d'un logiciel   28/0712000    de contrat soumis A l'IDA)
- Mise en place et formation                        performant              Fin aofit 00
- Contrat de maintenance                                                    Fin sept.     Copie du contrat parvenue A 1'
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~ID A
3   Formation de la nouvelle equipe    IDA/Centre de     L'equipe du projet est   30/06/2000    Formation effective A Ia
aux proc&dures de la Banque      formation          habituer aux procedures               mission residente de la Banque
(decaissement et LACI)                              de decaissements
classique et au LACI
4   Passage au LACI apres evaloation  FODEFCAtlDA        Le LACI est             31/1212001    Les rapports trimestriels du
effectivement applique                LACI sont approuves par 1
- application A titre experimental du               au FODEFCA                            IDA.
LACI                                                                        31/0712001
L-  Evaluation                                            _                       __
- 44 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28525
M A I I     N I G E R           2'                             3'                             4
*   jZi~~~NI              ) ~NIGER                                                Tioeo.
CRTE   I  '    NIGERIA                    -                     *$                                  Eyh,M=pUml:
D'IVOIRE G4Oo M                            /:\ ThM bMundpn. coIoro
TS \ r :. .>iv dMo-Yoo,o odP
BURKINA         .                                                         Todd
E41.UE Et _ ASO               \          ~         dmm               /    .        coMoooif12
0    20   40   60   80  100
t_   vfg <?         ' '  <4       >f  lo      >t               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
Banikoarao
-51o-{t   -  -            9\_        \           --;9 ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~KanIdi '  
S6gbana 
tj    Mat6ri'  ''           ;         f2GoGougt                ,  (           NIGERIA
-     Tanguidta                                       9Gogo)       
| Kobli --     Toukountounamt,9
NATITINGOU  t          KouenSinend6                                               K  1
ATAKORA           kBemb6ikk
BORGOU
If'~~~~~~~~~o
Q   a a;\ a                         NdaiiQ'         .' ak 
.   ,Dougou       \Of                         Perere 
.OG     -;eOaks'         |Bao                                                  BEN)
T. Sakode. i,/                         /    
,                            PAVEDPARRKOUAD
j-Bassila         t                   _9-
t K:7 ~~Tchaourou1D
TOGO                  >*-tBant6   OAS6s6   I                                         BENIN
I    I    ~zou dX
at   0   |   S   I    Glezau<,    (                          <- ~~~~~PAVED ROADSa-
GRAVEL ROADS
DOOSCJ                 1- X ~q1t< / RAILROADS
;            t     tDassa   t t tso                             INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT            t
XS  \  .   tgSlL  t   J<O   '                    ~~~~~~+ AIRFIELDS
X    | \   -Diidia SS z (\,  ]3K^atO (2          rDISTRICT CAPITALS
I  AB j          o MEY    , C,                           t  PROVINCE CAPITALS
M      Ihcon                                      *  NATIONAL CAPITALS
-  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-o" Klou6kanm'                   ,                       - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
L  MONO         t      Ad107(un ?;.
Abome        '  RT   NOVO  Lagos
LO            _ 4OTONOU S'n*-Kpol  n BIGHT OF
GHANA'                       r   ATLANTIQUE                                BENIN
1'                             2'                             3J 4'
January 1 997



