Report No. PID8819
Project Name                     Benin-Labor Force Dev.- Voc.Training Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Vocational Education & Training
Project ID                       BJPE70204
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BENIN
Implementing Agency
Address
FODEFCA - Ministere De La Fonction
Publique Et Du Travail
FODEFCA (Fonds de developpement de la
formation professionnelle continue
et d'apprentissage)
Address: Cotonou - Ministere de la Fonction
Publique
Contact Person: Jean Tossavi
Tel: 229 314054
Fax: 229 313223
Email: padfpc@intnet.bj
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 22, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 30, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
ISSUESn Unskilled labor force with   low educational levelt Employment
strongly biased towards agricultural and informal sectorsn Limited
availability of quality training programsn Existence of a training payroll
tax which is not used to finance training programsn Very high proportion
of the population confronts a low productivity-underemployment-poverty
trapn Difficulties are found by those who look for employment for the
first time Since Benin undertook its first Structural Adjustment Program
in 1989, a number of subsequent macroeconomic and sectoral initiatives
have prioritized the need to develop a competitive private sector, as well
as modernize public sector institutions. However, capacity building and
institutional strengthening activities have been hampered by the lack of a
skilled labor force that could use modern technologies in an efficient
fashion. In spite of the existence of a 2 percent payroll tax earmarked
for vocational training, public resources allocated for vocational
training are less than one-fourth of the proceedings of the tax. As a
result of this, public sector provision of training has stagnated and
private provision has been progressing slowly. Less than 5 percent of the
labor force has had access to any type of training programs.Due to lack of
resources average quality of training programs has also shown limited
progress. Among private providers selected organizations have developed
excellent programs which are in very high demand, however, the total
number of trainees getting access to these programs is very small. Total
size of Benin's labor force was 2 million in 1992, the last year when a



census was undertaken. It is estimated that the labor force has already
reached over 2.5 million and that nearly 130,000 new workers entered the
labor force in 1998. However, less than 15,000 workers received some type
of training courses in the same year. This figure is clearly inadequate,
given the country development objectives, as it covers less than 1 percent
of the labor force. The educational level of the labor force is low and
about 70 percent of it is illiterate. Although primary education
enrollment has expanded significantly during the last decade reaching a 70
percent gross rate, the rate of success completing primary is still low as
only 40 percent of those completing primary education succeed in obtaining
the corresponding certificate. Two-thirds of the labor force was rural in
1992 and 55 percent of total employment was in the agricultural sector.
Over 90 percent of the nonagricultural workers are in the informal
sector. Public employment is estimated at 33,000 and the modern private
sector employs about 20,000.Although unemployment would not appear to be
an issue according to the Ministry of Labor (Politique Nationale de
Formation Professionnelle Continue, December 30, 1998) (it has
historically been well below 5 percent), underemployment (as it reflects
insufficient use of workers time) is considered to be an issue both at the
rural and urban levels. The low rate of unemployment maybe caused, among
other things, by the large size of the informal sector combined with the
low skills of workers and the lack of opportunities in the formal sector
of the economy. This is particularly serious for those leaving the
education system who are looking for a first employment. Poverty is
pervasive in the country. Annual percapita income was $380 in 1998 and it
was estimated that 33 percent of the population fell below the poverty
line.GOVERNMENT STRATEGYThe National Vocational Training Policy adopted by
the Government in December 1998, laid the foundations for developing a
vocational training program that will boost human resources and help to
realize the national development objectives in the quest of inserting the
country within the global economy. It is considered that self employed as
well as salaried workers should be subjects entitled to training
programs.Its guiding principles are:n the right of all workers to
trainingn utilization of a fully participatory tripartite approach in all
decision makingn determination of training programs based on their
relevance and economic impactn base the quality of training on its
cost-effectivenessn base programming of training programs on the demand
for them and on evaluation of their effectivenessThe main instrument for
implementing the proposed policy is the establishment and operation of a
Fund for the Development of Vocational Training and Apprenticeship
(FODEFCA, Fonds de Developpement de la Formation Professionnelle Continue
et de l'Apprentissage). Juridical establishment of the Fund and its
statutes was adopted by decree on February 12, 1999 (Decree No. 99-053).
The Management Council of the Fund has representatives of the productive
sectors (including the agricultural sector) and of the workers (including
those from the informal sector). The core objective of the vocational
training strategy is the financing of vocational programs, of studies to
guide and evaluate allocations, and of activities to strengthen the
capacity for the provision of vocational training. Financing of training
programs by the Fund will be channeled to existing providers both private
and public on the basis of their capacity. Most of these programs will
require cofinancing arrangements with providers and/or beneficiaries in
cash or in-kind. Government resources for the Fund (600 million CFA
Francs) were allocated in the country budget for year 2000 based on a
proposed program for the launch of the Fund and the start of its
-2 -



operations. The Management Council for the Fund has been already selected
for the Fund's start of operations programmed for April 2000, under an
Executive Secretary chosen among competing candidates on the basis of
professional and technical criteria. Manuals for the operations of the
Fund and for its financial management have been prepared.A series of
studies, financed by the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), have been
prepared by l'Observatoire de l'Emploi to inform and support the process
of preparation of the subsector policy and its programmatic application.
Among the main studies there are: updated inventories of the existing
capacity for provision of training programs, assessments of the demand for
training and characterizations of the labor markets. A manual has been
prepared to guide the preparation of future studies, including the
evaluation of the training programs financed by the Fund.In this context,
IDA's role would be to strengthen, through this project, the capacity of
the Fund to implement efficiently and effectively the country vocational
training policy.
2. Objectives
The development objective of this project is to support the Government of
Benin to put in practice the National Vocational Training Policy
(Politique Nationale de Formation Professionnelle Continue) adopted in
December 1998 by establishing and operating a system that will finance the
provision of cost-effective training based on the actual demand for
training and on the existing capacity -both private and public- for the
provision of training.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
See paragraph 8 below.
4. Description
The project, which will be implemented over a four-year period, has three
components: Provision of training, studies, and strengthening of training
institutions capacity and programs.A. Provision of Training. Under the
training component, the fund will finance the training of 25,000 workers
in the modern private sector, the informal (non-agricultural) sector, the
agricultural sector, and among the unemployed. Details on this component
appear in the project description of Annex 1A and in the draft Operational
Manual, which is available in files.B. Studies. Three types of studies
will be undertaken mainly by l'Observatoire de l'Emploi: labor market
analysis, evaluation of training impact, and sub-sectoral demands (etudes
de filiOres). The program of studies to be undertaken, each with the
corresponding terms of reference, appears in the draft Manual of Studies
prepared by the project team with the assistance of the International
Labour Organization (ILO) (copy available in files).C. Strengthening of
Training Institutions Capacity and Programs. This component will finance
(i) strengthening of selected training institutions by upgrading
instructors competencies and skills, and equipment; (ii) strengthening of
the Fund, the National Directorate of Vocational Training and
l'Observatoire de l'Emploi; and (iii) the repayment of the PPF.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               2.9
IBRD
IDA                      5.0
-3-



Total Project Cost       7.9
6. Implementation
The project will be executed by FODEFCA (Fund for the Development of
Vocational Training and Apprenticeship), a newly established autonomous
agency under the sponsorship of the Ministry of Labor. Before
negotiations, FODEFCA will have established under PPF financing, the
Executive Secretariat (Secretariat Executif) responsible for the
day-to-day operation of the Funds. FODEFCA includes the following entities
by order of importance: (a) Management Council (Comite de gestion) which
is a tripartite entity consisting of 12 members from the public sector,
the productive sectors (modern, informal and agricultural), and from the
workers. It has a decision-making role, and to that end, it: defines the
Fund policy and general orientation concerning the financing of Vocational
Training and Apprenticeship programs; fixes the general rules and
procedures of the Funds ongoing operations; establishes the approbation
procedures and modalities of the training programs; approves the capacity
criteria for training institutions; votes the Funds budget, including
income and expenditures and approves the audit; reviews and approves
progress reports; approves interior law of the Funds; contracts the
audits; approves the annual financial audits; recruts under competitive
process, proposes his/her nomination to the relevant Minister, and
dismisses the Executive Secretary; autorizes the recruitment and dismissal
of the staff based on the Executive Secretary recommendation. A Steering
Committee (Commission Permanente) consisting of members emanating from the
Management Council membership, is responsible for approving sub-projects
above xx million CFA Francs to be financed by the Funds for training
programs, studies, and capacity strengthening activities. The Executive
Secretariat (Secretariat Executif) is under the authority of the
Management Council and the Steering Committee. The Secretariat ensures
the day-to-day operations of the Funds activities and according to the
project agreement (procurement, financial management and accounting,
personnel management, etc.). Under the overall supervision of the
Executive Secretary, the Secretary is assisted by a Direction Committee
(Comite de Direction) consisting of the Executive Secretary, Unit Chiefs,
and a staff respresentative. The administrative and technical units are:
the Administrative and Financial Unit (Service administratif et
financier); the Technical Unit (Service technique domaines d'activites),
and the Studies and IEC Unit (Service d'etudes et d'IEC). Their roles and
responsibilities are described in the draft Operational Manual. An
assessment of the capacity of the Executive Secretariat to carry out its
key functions will be done at appraisal. In addition, FODEFCA will be
assisted by the National Council on Vocational Training (CNFPE), by the
Directorate of Vocational Training (DFPC) of the Ministry of Labor and by
L'Observatoire de l'Emploi. The latter entity will conduct the Studies
component of the project.
7. Sustainability
n/a
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The developmental issue to be addressed is the lack of a skilled labor
force and the extremely limited number of effective training programs
available in the country. The learning issue to be addressed by the
project is to test a method and process for the provision of vocational
-4 -



training programs that increase workers productivity and their
corresponding earnings to a sizable portion of the labor force. Previous
experiences of this type in other african countries have had a limited
impact.The Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was selected over a sector
investment credit due to the lack of experience in the country in the
management and operation of a Fund that would transfer resources to
training providers and to the uncertainty about the long-term financial
arrangements for the Fund. The methodology used for the selection of
training programs to be financed under this LIL will be based on actual
demand and on the potential impact of training on productivity, workers
earnings, and poverty reduction. It also requires the establishment of a
sound and transparent methodology for the selection of qualified providers
for the delivery of training programs.    It is expected that after these
processes are well established and applied through the LIL, more
transparent processes for the management of financial contributions for
training from employers and government, including any existing training
payroll tax, will be agreed upon. The main innovative strategic choices to
be tested are:n allocating resources by contracting training providers to
deliver a well defined output, rather than handing out budget grants;f
strengthening the capacity of a tripartite (businesses, workers,
government) board for making specific allocation decisions, rather than
having a government office making these decisions;n utilizing all the
installed capacity for training provision, rather than financing only
public providers;n prioritizing the capacity of l'Observatoire de l'Emploi
to produce labor market information and evaluation studies on a systematic
basis, rather than contracting out each study under separate contract;f
establishing quality standards for training programs and disseminating
information about them, rather than allowing an anarchic proliferation of
programs that may not produce acceptable quality.Lessons learned from
other countries. n Directorates of technical education in ministries of
education and directorates of training in ministries of labor have not
developed cost-effective technical/vocational education and training
programs in African and other developing countries. Examples of
cost-effective systems present an autonomous fund or agency in charge of
the financing and/or provision of training. Cost-effective training
usually consists of short courses (under three-months long).n Close
attention to the demand requirements of enterprises and workers as well as
good information on labor markets and economic perspectives help to avoid
training investments that will become obsolete or useless. However,
manpower projections have not staisfactorily fulfilled such a role.
Observatoires de l'Emploi are effective in France and their technical
support to their developing countries duplicates may help for a better
decision making. n Excellent quality Technical and Vocational Education
and Training (TVET) institutions can be found in almost every country.
Most of the time they are private organizations although frequently they
receive some type of subsidies. An effective TVET system will have to
rely heavily on private proviaion of training.n Stakeholder participation
is a neccesary element of successful TVET systems.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Category C
11. Contact Point:
-5-



Task Manager
Bernardo Kugler
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473-0894
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 24, 2000.
- 6-



