             Document of
           The World Bank




                                      Report No: 34601

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (IDA-33970 PPFI-P9430)

                 ON A

               CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.0 MILLION

               TO THE

          REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                FOR A

 LABOR FORCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




             March 1, 2006

                                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 2000)

                                             Currency Unit = F CFA
                                                       US$ 1 = F CFA 650

                                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                            January 1 -       December 31

                                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS:         Country Assistance Strategy                        Stratégie d'Aide-Pays
CDD :        Community-Driven Development                       Développement Communautaire
DFPC :       Directorate for In-Service Vocational              Direction de la Formation Professionnelle
             Training                                           et Continue
PDO :        Project Development Objective                      Objectif de Développement du Projet
DRF :        Withdrawal Application                             Demande de Retrait de Fonds
FODEFCA :    Funds for the Development of Vocational            Fonds de Développement de la Formation
             Training and Apprenticeship                        Professionnelle Continue et de l'Apprentissage
GTZ :        German Cooperation                                 Coopération Allemande
IDA :        International Development Association              Association Internationale pour le Développement
IEC :        Information, Education & Communication             Information, Education & Communication
LIL :        Learning and Innovation Loan                       Prêt au Développement des Connaissances et à
                                                                l'Innovation
MFPTRA :     Civil Service, Labor and Administrative Reform     Ministère de la Fonction Publique, du Travail et de la
             Ministry                                           Réforme Administrative
M&E :        Monitoring and Evaluation                          Suivi & Evaluation
NGO:         Non-Gouvernemental Organization                    Organisation non-gouvernementale
NPV :        Net Present Value                                  Valeur Actuelle Nette
OEF :        Observatory of Employment and Training             Observatoire de l'Emploi et de la Formation
PAD :        Project Appraisal Document                         Rapport d'Evaluation du Projet
PADFPC       Support Project to the Development of In-Service   Projet d'Appui au Développement de la Formation
             Vocational Training                                Professionnelle Continue
PIU          Project Implementation Unit                        Bureau de coordination du Projet
PPF :        Project Preparation Facility                       Avance de Préparation de Projet
PRSC :       Poverty Reduction Strategic Credit                 Crédit à l'Appui de la Stratégie de Réduction de
                                                                Pauvreté
PRSP :       Poverty Reduction and Strategic Paper              Document de Stratégie de la Réduction de Pauvreté
QAG :        Quality Assurance Group                            Groupe Assurance Qualité
SIL :        Specific Investment Loan                           Prêt d'Investissement Spécifique
VET :        Vocational Education and Training                  Formation Professionnelle et Continue


                                          Vice President:       Gobind T. Nankani
                              Country Director Acting           Diarietou Gaye
                                         Sector Manager         Alexandre V. Abrantes
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                   Adama Ouedraogo

                                            BENIN
                              Labor Force Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. FODEFCA Staff (Executive Secretariat)                                   29
Annex 9. Borrower's comments                                                     30
Annex 10 IBRD Map#33372                                                          35

Project ID: P070204                                                  Project Name: Labor Force Development Project
Team Leader: Adama Ouedraogo                                         TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 1, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Labor Force Development Project                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-33970; PPFI-P9430
   Country/Department: BENIN                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Vocational training (100%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Gender (P); Education for the knowledge economy
                            (P); Administrative and civil service reform (S); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/16/2000                                     Effective: 10/31/2000                03/13/2001
     Appraisal: 05/19/2000                                         MTR: 04/30/2003                  02/27/2003
      Approval: 06/09/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BENIN (GOB)/FODEFCA
                      Other Partners:      N/A

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Diarietou Gaye                                 Hedi Larbi
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Rosemary T. Bellew
Team Leader at ICR:             Rachidi B. Radji                               Ousmane Diagana
ICR Primary Author:             Adama Ouedraogo


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background

The Support Project for the Development of In-Service Vocational Training was designed to respond to the
shortage of qualified labor due to low educational attainment and limited access to vocational training

outside the formal education system. Sixty-six percent of adults in Benin are illiterate, and less than 1
percent of the work force receives on-the-job vocational training. Structural weaknesses in the
apprenticeship tax (taxe d'apprentissage), the mechanism for mobilizing resources to fund training for a
diverse labor force, limited its effectiveness. The shortage of qualified workers was likely to hamper efforts
to improve productivity, so essential to economic growth and poverty alleviation.

In December 1998, the Government of Benin enacted the National Policy for In-Service Vocational
Training (Politique Nationale de la Formation Professionnelle Continue, PNFPC). As incorporated in the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), the establishment of an autonomous fund was envisaged. The
Fund for the Development of Vocational Training and Apprenticeship (Fonds de Développement de la
Formation Professionnelle Continue et de l'Apprentissage, FODEFCA) established in 1999 to implement
the national policy, received a mandate to explore innovative solutions for vocational training tailored to
demand. In 2000, in line with the national policy options, the government initiated the Support Project for
the Development of In-Service Vocational Training (Projet d'Appui au Développement de la Formation
Professionnelle Continue, PADFPC) to determine the effectiveness of this approach in increasing economic
growth and reducing poverty.

In response to the government's request, the World Bank agreed to finance PADFPC (Cr. No 3397-BEN),
as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), by signing two Agreements, one with the government for partial
funding of project activities and the other with FODEFCA, the project-implementing agency.

Project Development Objective
The project development objective (PDO) was to assist in the start-up and pilot testing of a new
government program to: (a) increase the availability, quality, and cost-effectiveness of labor force training,
targeting the informal sector and women, and (b) strengthen public sector capacities to monitor and
evaluate labor force training needs and private sector capacities to improve its training capacity. The
program was to be implemented by FODEFCA, an autonomous fund.

The PDO was in line with the government's poverty reduction strategies. Targeting both the modern and
informal sectors, is consistent with the national policy of human resources enhancement as a determining
factor for economic growth. The project, focused mainly on the informal sector (which employs 41 percent
of the labor force) and women (who constitute a vulnerable population group). It is also consistent with the
strategy of the Government of Benin to reduce poverty and to ensure broad-based growth by increasing
productivity and income, particularly within the informal sector and among women. The PDO is in
conformity with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), giving a major priority to improving
economic growth and reducing poverty through the development of modern and informal private sectors by
facilitating small and medium enterprises' access to vocational training and to credit.

As a LIL, the project was designed to test the feasibility of financing a skills development scheme based on
demand. But the project objective was too ambitious for a LIL, as underscored by both the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) and the Mid-Term Review (MTR); the focus of the hypothesis being tested was
blurry. The following elements of the scheme are supposed being tested in the PDO: (i) the viability of the
stakeholder-led governance arrangement; (ii) the use of transparent procurement criteria for selecting
projects linked to the market; (iii) the viability of the use of a training fund as an instrument to promote
training in the private sector; and (iv) the role of M&E in promoting quality and relevance of training.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) stated that progress made toward achieving the development
objective should be evaluated according to the following key performance indicators:




                                                      - 2 -

      (i) Institutional development: FODEFCA's systems and procedures for appraising training
      proposals, financing these activities, and undertaking quality control are transparent, fair, and
      effective as reflected in institutional assessments and in the increase of the number of qualified
      private providers.

      (ii) Training results: Informal sector workers and women beneficiaries represent 60 percent of all
      beneficiaries. Training programs are effective as measured by high completion and proficiency rates
      and employment after training. The unit cost of training by provider and sector is regularly evaluated
      and monitored.

      (iii) Development impact: Over the medium term, productivity is increased, as measured by
      increased earnings for individuals and firms.

      (iv) Sustainability: Allocations made by the Borrower (in its budget) to vocational education and
      training are at least FCFA 1.2 billion each year. End-of-project plans for scaling-up and maintaining
      FODEFCA operations are appraised as feasible and sustainable.

      (v) Numbers trained: The number of qualified private trainers increased to 32.

      (vi) Transparency: Training needs are monitored and evaluated by public bodies.

Some of the above indicators seem insufficient in the context of a LIL to assess fully the extent to which the
PDO was achieved.        As an illustration, the institutional development indicator, set to measure the
efficiency, transparency, and equity of FODEFCA's procedures, does not stipulate how to measure
progress. As formulated, this indicator looks more like a goal than a gauge. In another area, while
information on annual budgetary allocations to vocational education and training could be interesting, it
seems less relevant for measuring progress toward fund sustainability. In this respect, the initial project's
monitoring framework has failed to capture and clearly define some needed baselines as well as such
important elements as ways to monitor resources transferred to the fund under the national budget and unit
costs of training. Nevertheless, efforts were made to bridge some of these gaps during project
implementation (see annex 9).

3.2 Revised Objective:
 Although the PDO was not formally revised, the quantitative objective was reduced at the mid-term review
(in February 2003) to take into account findings of analytical work and the QAG assessment in 2002,
which underscored that the initial objective was too ambitious. The initial objective of training 25,000
people was reduced to 20,000 (20 percent) distributed as follows: 3,200 for the modern sector; 5,600
(nonagricultural informal sector); 6,400 (agricultural informal sector); 4,000 (apprenticeship); 800 job
placement). The MTR pointed out that, with the available human resources at the implementing agency,
the work required to process training and select training operators could not done within the time limits.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was organized into three components:

Component 1: Training Grants: US$3.40 million
This component was intended, through grants, to support the promotion, identification, evaluation, design,
and supervision of subprojects providing training programs for the modern, informal, and agricultural
sectors and facilitating labor force entry.




                                                     - 3 -

In all, this training component was targeted at 20,000 beneficiaries, 60 percent of them informal sector
workers and women. In the project documents, the informal sector covers both workers from the informal
sector (nonagricultural) and the agricultural sector. Therefore, the 60 percent includes beneficiaries from
both sectors. Considering the large number of workers involved in the informal sector, an improvement in
productivity would indeed contribute to economic growth. In addition, in diversifying the training poles, the
component covers several areas of the economy that are likely to boost growth.

1.1.     Training in the informal sector (non-agricultural): This subcomponent was intended to finance
training activities for 5,600 craftsmen and their apprentices. The focus was on: (a) developing performance
capacity of micro-enterprises while encouraging a transition toward the modern sector; (b) enhancing
capacity for using improved production techniques better adapted to market demand; (c) improving
employment stability and (d) increasing workers' revenues.

1.2.     Training for the agricultural sector: The project aimed to finance, through this subcomponent,
training for 6,400 people to: (a) increase the competitiveness of small producers and (b) improve their
purchasing power. It was envisaged that these activities would further local and regional economic growth
and development.

1.3.     Training to facilitate labor force entry: This subcomponent aimed at training 4,800 people in the
following areas: (a) training apprentices for specific occupations using alternate firm work-training center
periods; (b) training selected unemployed to develop entrepreneurial skills; (c) developing programs to
facilitate employment in new jobs.

1.4.     Training for the modern sector: This subcomponent aimed at training 3,200 people in order to:
(a) improve companies' productivity and competitiveness by improving the skills of their work force; (b)
facilitate youth placement in the sector's work force; and (c) encourage continuing training in the
workplace and promote support of firms for training programs.

Component 2: Monitoring and Evaluation: US $0.7million
This component aimed to support the development and the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) system by the OEF (Observatoire de l'Emploi et de la Formation) regarding the impact of the
subprojects by: (i) providing technical advisory services for carrying out studies, collecting data, and
preparing periodic reports; (ii) providing training, including twinning programs; and (iii) ensuring
acquisition of office supplies.

This component was to play an important role in guiding the strategic piloting of the innovation project
(LIL). Subcomponents are as follows.

2.1 Monitoring and Evaluating Training Program Impact: The objective of this subcomponent was to
obtain robust estimates of changes in productivity and earnings as a result of training programs. The
instrument to be used to measure this impact was a tracer study.
Training program graduates were to be followed up yearly to obtain information on their job status and
history, earnings, and acquisition and application of skills. At the start and completion of each training
program, the trainer was to administer a test under the supervision of FODEFCA. These tests would
measure knowledge and skills directly related to the training and would be used to evaluate training impact.

2.2 Annual Labor Markets, Employment, and Training Report: Under this subcomponent, the project
was to finance the preparation of an annual report, analyzing and consolidating all relevant information on



                                                     - 4 -

Benin's labor markets and employment. This information would guide FODEFCA's investment decisions
about developing and undertaking training activities.

2.3 Specific Training Needs in Selected Areas (Etudes de Filières): This subcomponent was to finance
studies to identify the types of skills that are critical to high-growth sectors. OEF was to establish an
exchange with a specialized institution with proven capacity in this type of analysis. A number of activities
were to be selected as the subject of the first study to be conducted by OEF with the assistance of the
specialized institution. This study would be replicated in other sectors according to their potential impact,
as disclosed by the evaluations.

Component 3: Institutional development: US$2.10 million
This component aimed at strengthening each entity to play its role in the project. For FODEFCA, this
component aimed to strengthen the organizational, managerial, and strategic capacities of the Management
Committee and FODEFCA staff through studies, training, counseling, and acquisition of material and
equipment.      For the Directorate for In-Service Vocational Training (Direction de la Formation
Professionnelle et Continue, DFPC) and OEF, the objective was to strengthen their capacities through
support-counseling, training, acquisition of equipment and material, and personnel exchanges with national
and international institutions. Capacity building in training institutions consisted of conducting studies to
determine their training needs and skill-improvement priorities.
.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components and subcomponents remained unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall quality at entry was unsatisfactory. This rating draws on two groups of factors. The first group
is positive: (i) The project objectives are relevant and in conformity with the national human resources
enhancement policy as well as the Bank's CAS; (ii) The project's three components are well aligned with
and contribute to achievement of the PDO. (iii) The project drew relevant lessons from other experiences
carried out in Benin and in countries with similar socioeconomic contexts. (iv) The adoption of the
approach "research and development of knowledge" through a piloting system enabled necessary
adjustments in the institutional mechanism and operational strategies to take into account the changing
needs and evolving context.       (v) A thorough assessment of risks was made and relevant mitigation
strategies were identified in the light of lessons learned from other experiences. Two risks were identified.
The greatest risk was that FODEFCA would fail to win its stakeholders' political and financial support.
The second, more modest risk was that modern sector enterprises, paying the apprenticeship tax, might
support FODEFCA only if given access to fund grants. None of these risks materialized by the end of the
project, but they remain pertinent for the long-run development of job skills.

The second group, a more negative set, carries more structural weight on the QAE and is based on the
following facts: (i) The project design had shortcomings stemming from a shift in the nature of the initial
project from a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) into a LIL, without fully taking into account all the
implications this shift would have for project design. As a result, the new financing mechanism--central to
the LIL--was insufficiently defined in the project and therefore contributed to making the project design
unclear. This point was underscored by the QAG report. The QAG also asserted that: (ii) The project
design was not sound and that it was not ready to be implemented at the time of project approval; (iii) The
qualitative objectives of the project were too ambitious. (iv) From the beginning, the project lacked an
established M&E framework. (v) The objective of promoting access to new jobs, measured through the
"number of beneficiaries employed after training," was not well-aligned with the fact that the project
targeted labor force underemployment.          (vi) The project had no baseline and the indicators were



                                                      - 5 -

inappropriate for assessing the extent to which the PDO was achieved (see section 3.1).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of the development objective and outputs of the project are satisfactory.

Overall, the government program was successfully started up and tested. The program resulted in an
increase, mainly in the informal sector, in the availability, quality, and cost­effectiveness of vocational
training.

(i)      The quality and cost-effectiveness of the labor force training system were tested, and the outputs in
terms of learned lessons are deemed satisfactory. With regard to skills delivery, several alternatives were
tested. The results of these tests may not be definitive, but they did allow lessons to be drawn about which
alternatives work and which do not as well as about the context in which some options could work and
others could not.    Some innovative approaches tested by the project were: (a) setting up the M&E
framework progressively as alternative options for delivering the related activities were being implemented
(including options to overcome some shortcomings on the OEF side); (b) testing participatory community
procurement procedures (Passation de Marché à Participation Communautaire, PMPC) to respond to the
need to empower the beneficiaries in the selection of training providers; (c) resorting to expertise outside
the fund to review training requests.

Overall, FODEFCA, as a core organ of the system, was operational. Effective and equitable systems and
procedures were tested and led to selection, funding, and quality control of training proposals. Out of 902
training projects submitted to FODEFCA, 613 were financed, a funding rate of 68 percent. The timeframe
for handling training requests affecting the efficiency of the mechanism improved progressively. The
transparency and equity of the system were built on an approach based on stakeholder demand, competition
among training providers, use of external evaluators to assess technical bids, and involvement of
beneficiaries in the selection of providers (PMPC). Such an approach facilitated quality control.

(ii)     The project achieved its quantitative objectives: more than 61 percent of the 22,354 trainees came
from the informal sector (nonagricultural and agricultural sectors). Training programs were deemed
effective. Between 85 percent and 90 percent of the beneficiaries were satisfied with their training. The
impact of training on beneficiaries was also monitored and showed that it was largely positive (see below).

Concerning efficiency, the unit cost of training was kept under control. A study on the training unit cost
was undertaken, together with regular internal analyses that helped monitor cost trends. The training cost
elements, identified by training field, served as a baseline for monitoring training cost-effectiveness.
Despite variations, the average cost of training remained under control and was broadly affordable for
beneficiaries (FCFA 66.760 at constant 2000 prices) against a benchmark of FCFA 67.000 set in 2002.

(iii)    The training had a positive impact, especially in the nonagricultural informal sector. Impact studies
showed positive effects on beneficiaries' income, living conditions, or both (see section 4.2). In the
agricultural sector, the quality of training is acknowledged, in the results of the assessment, to have
adequately strengthened workers' to increase their revenue. The impact of training on ability to obtain
employment was not assessed, but the evaluation studies revealed that the trainees hired permanent or
temporary employees in both the informal (nonagricultural) and agricultural sectors (see section 4.2-1.3
[c]).




                                                     - 6 -

(iv)     In terms of sustainability, relevant and realistic project-end plans were prepared by the local team
to ensure the continuity of FODEFCA operations, and the resources transferred to the FODEFCA have
increased over time. In 2004 and in 2005, the government allocated FCFA 400 million and FCFA 500
million, respectively, to progressively take over the funding of FODEFCA. Broader discussions have been
initiated with the minister of finance to build a consensus on ways of sustaining financing of the skills
development scheme by using the existing tax levy. In addition to the financial resources, technical and
institutional capacities are also important as is the commitment by various actors to the sustainability of the
set mechanism (see section 6.1). The initial performance indicator in this area has been fully met. Since
the creation in 2001 of the Ministry for Vocational Education and Training (VET), the government has
annually raised the following budgets for this subsector: FCFA 4.919 billion (2002), FCFA 4.919 billion
(2003), FCFA 5.353 billion (2004), FCFA 7.762 billion (2005).

(v) The objective of enhancing the training capacities of the private sector and that of (vi) the M&E of
the needs for vocational training was achieved. The number of private qualified trainers increased
beyond the project expectations (see section 4.2-3). The M&E of the training needs was undertaken using
alternatives though OEF was unable to do it (see section 4.2-2).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall, the project outputs are rated satisfactory. This rating is based on the following elements: (i) The
implementation of the different components allowed testing of several alterative approaches (see section
4.1-a); (ii) For each of the three components, the expected outputs were achieved. (iii) The total number of
trainees exceeded the predicted numbers, although some sectors did not reach the expected targets. (iv) The
conformity of training with regard to economic needs is considered satisfactory. (v) FODEFCA's M&E
activities allowed measurement of the impact of training programs and generation of information that
allowed the project to be strategically piloted. (vi) The institutional development component facilitated
systemic functionality through capacity building of FODEFCA and public and private entities involved in
the project implementation. The implementation outputs, per component, are as follows:

1.       Training Grants
Overall, the outputs of this component are rated satisfactory. Of the four subcomponents, two were rated
satisfactory and the other two moderately satisfactory.         The weight of lessons learned under these
components swings the rating to satisfactory. Training grants allowed training of 22,354 people, instead of
the 20,000 in the revised prediction, for an achievement rate of 111.8 percent. This result varied by sector.
Training covered various areas. Based on the experimental approach of the control group technique for
evaluating the net impact of the training, the impact evaluation studies showed that training had positive
effects in terms of professional achievement and improvements in technical skills as well as beneficiaries'
living conditions. At the same time, it has become clear that some supporting measures are necessary to
ensure the continuing effectiveness of the training.

1.1.     Training for the informal sector (nonagricultural)

Overall, the outputs of this subcomponent are rated satisfactory. In total, 17 percent more workers in the
informal nonagricultural sector were trained than predicted, 6,591 instead of 5,600 workers. Training
covered two fields: technical qualification and management methods for craftsmen. The impact evaluation
studies showed that training produced the following effects:

(a)      The professional gains of craftsmen were improved. Eighty percent of the beneficiaries have a
more suitable exercise of their trade; 87 percent have improved their behavior in labor environments, and
68 percent are better able to satisfy the customers than they used to be. These data translate into a trend



                                                       - 7 -

toward professionalization of craftsmen. This constitutes an inevitable transition to the modern sector.

(b)      Overall, skills acquired in training are utilized in work settings. Approximately 80 percent of the
beneficiaries in this sector apply the acquired skills. The study shows improved service quality due to the
utilization of better adapted techniques and materials. However, the application of improved production
techniques is often limited by the unavailability of appropriate materials.

(c)      Increased employment stability was not directly observed. But some improvements in aspects of
the beneficiaries' socioeconomic and professional situation can encourage their stability.

(d)      Increase in incomes is difficult to establish. In some trade associations (motorbike mechanics,
electricians, hairdressers, and fishermen), the observed improvements in revenues can be attributed to
training.   Overall, compared to the control group, training had important positive effects on the
beneficiaries, whose living conditions improved through better coverage of education, health, food, housing
expenditures and through the acquisition of new equipment. Though not a baseline indicator, the
improvement in the living conditions in many respects reflects an increase in incomes.

1.2.     Training for the Agricultural Sector

The outputs of this subcomponent are satisfactory. This rating draws on two points: (i) Quantitative
results exceeded expectations.     A total of 10,811 people in the agricultural sector received training,
compared to the forecasted 6,400, a 169 percent achievement rate. The agricultural sector generated the
most demand: 38 percent of all training requests expressed a significant and growing need for training. (ii)
Impact analysis of the training brought out the fact that supporting measures to ensure optimal training
efficiency are necessary in this subsector. In the case of the LIL, this lesson influenced the rating as much
as did the expected impact of the training. The studies show that the quality of training is adequate. Most
beneficiaries (70 percent) found training sessions relevant, and 85 percent found the training fit their needs.

(a)      People trained usually use the skills they have learned, although this may vary by sector: 62.8
percent in the area of plant production, 80.2 percent in animal husbandry, 52.8 percent in processing, 55.5
percent in management and commercialization.             But there is no major difference for trainees and
non-trainees in terms of production. This outcome can be explained by the fact that the use of acquired
skills and their impact are closely correlated to availability of equipment and tools to which small producers
have limited access.

(b)      For the same reasons described in the preceding paragraph, the positive impact of the training is
subtle. This does not, however, challenge the effectiveness of the training. Above all, it shows the
importance of an appropriate enabling environment (including availability of equipment, credit and loans,
and markets.

1.3.     Training to Facilitate Labor Force Entry
Overall, the outputs of this subcomponent are rated moderately satisfactory. Although more than half
(2,077) the people envisaged (4,000) were trained, these results weaken the rating and reveal limitations in
project design (see section 3.5). The mechanism capacity to provide quality training is not, however, in
question.

The limitation is the gap between the objective of professional employment and the targeting of training to
people who are already employed. The impact studies nevertheless showed that the trained beneficiaries



                                                       - 8 -

contributed to job creation: in the agricultural sector, 13 percent of the trainees temporarily employed
people in their workshop and 2 percent employed trainees permanently; these proportions are, respectively,
26 percent and 22 percent for the informal (non-agricultural) sector.

(a)     Trainees trained for different jobs over alternate periods of work in enterprises reached a total of
1,516 out of 4,000 anticipated, an achievement rate of 38 percent.           The implementation of training
programs in this sector was based on partnership with SWISSCONTACT, which developed the training
curricula in various job associations.

(b)     Out of an anticipated 400, 461 people benefited from training to create jobs, an achievement rate of
115.2 percent.

(c)     To facilitate employment in new jobs, 100 people were trained (compared to 400 anticipated
trainees), an achievement rate of 25 percent. The number of registered requests eligible for training was
lower than in other sectors (15 requests with 1,613 beneficiaries).         These requests were mostly for
diploma-awarding training that were not eligible under the project.



1.4.    Training for the Modern Sector
Overall, the output of this subcomponent was rated moderately satisfactory. Ninety percent of the
quantitative objective was reached: 2,875 people trained of the forecasted 3,200. The number of requests
for training in this sector was low. This is attributable to: (i) the limited capacity of human resource
management officials to draft training plans fitting enterprises' development strategies; (ii) the fact that
many heads of enterprises still believe that investing in capital equipment is more worthwhile than investing
in human resources; (iii) the selection mode is not adapted to this sector.

Improvements in enterprise productivity and in facilitation of employment for young people were not
documented. The companies had not yet integrated the in-service training culture into their management
styles. For continuity in activities, FODEFCA proposed coherent strategies better adapted to modern
sector realities in its end-of-project plans and reports.



2.      Monitoring and Evaluation

Overall, outputs of this component are rated moderately satisfactory. (i) The M&E system has improved
considerably during project life. In the initial institutional arrangement, OEF was entrusted with an
important role, but, in light of its weakness, other relevant alternatives were found (ii) Implementation of
two subcomponents out of the forecasted three produced the results expected. (iii) FODEFCA set up an
operational database that permitted strategic piloting of the project. (iii) Impact studies were conducted,
and the findings were able to guide decision making. The results achieved per subcomponent are as follows:



2.1.    Monitoring and evaluation of training program impact
The outputs of this subcomponent are satisfactory. Two impact evaluation studies were done, one on the
informal nonagricultural sector and the other on the agricultural sector. Given the failure of OEF, initially
in charge of this task, independent consulting firms were recruited to carry out these studies. Instead of the
longitudinal study originally envisaged, the approach was tested by comparison with a reference group.
The results gave an indication of the impact of training on enterprise competitiveness and the beneficiaries'
living conditions. The studies put forward strategic and operational recommendations to strengthen the


                                                       - 9 -

impact of training on the beneficiaries. These recommendations, embodied in an action plan, are to be
implemented by the FODEFCA team.              In light of information provided by the two studies, a
complementary study was carried out to measure the utilization of acquired skills through direct
observation of a subsample of beneficiary craftsmen in their workshop. This study identified factors that
can favorably influence the use of skills and knowledge acquired during training. These impact studies
comply with methodological standards. In addition to impact evaluations, other studies were carried out on
·        Training costs
·        Constraints in tenders on training operators
·        Vocational training cost-sharing
·        Partners' evaluation of fund intervention mechanisms.

FODEFCA supervised training in the field. This activity was hampered early in the project by the lack of
an M&E framework and personnel but improved throughout the project lifetime. This progress was
assisted by the development of the M&E framework and the definition of tasks and workloads. The
average number of training visits was maintained at around 60 percent of the standard set in the M&E
framework document.

Information provided by the different studies, supervision missions, and other sources was incorporated in
an operational database. This database allows automatic generation of information that facilitates strategic
piloting of the project.

2.2.     Annual Report on Labor Markets, Employment, and Training
Overall, the outputs of this subcomponent are satisfactory. Over the life of the project, OEF produced
two annual reports on employment and training. They provided information on: (i) the current employment
and training situation; (ii) employment and training dynamics; (iii) challenges to overcome and potential
areas of improvement. These reports produced relevant data to guide decision-making on investments in
training.

2.3.     Specific Training Needs in Selected Areas (Etudes de Filières)
The activities under this subcomponent were not implemented. No "étude de filière" was carried out for
two reasons: OEF had difficulties conducting these studies, and the information these studies would have
produced was acquired from other sources.         Because the necessary information had been obtained,
FODEFCA found that no other, duplicative studies were needed. This was a constructive decision,
reflecting synergies among the different programs and honoring the principle of using available data as
inputs to the system.

3.       Institutional Development

Overall, outputs under this component are satisfactory. This assessment is based on the following points:
(i) As expected, the key bodies of the system (FODEFCA, OEF, DFPC, and private and public training
centers) received institutional support for human resource strengthening, equipment and materials
provision, and needed technical assistance. (ii) FODEFCA, the central body of the system, was made
operational through the establishment of all the functional units (the Executive Secretariat, the Management
Committee, and the Technical Unit). (iii) FODEFCA's performance improved, as measured by the number
of training requests processed each quarter. (iv) FODEFCA's institutional strengthening process led to
significant improvements in the quality of training proposals submitted by bidders. The following activities
were carried out through these components:




                                                    - 10 -

FODEFCA Institutional Strengthening: The project established the Executive Secretariat through staff
recruitment and provision of equipment and materials. It provided technical assistance and the required
operational support for the smooth development of the project (see annex 7).             A training plan was
developed, regularly updated, and served as a basis for training fund staff and members of the Management
Committee in different areas of competence. These activities helped strengthen FODEFCA's capacity to
respond to the many training requests.

In addition to ensuring the organization and setting up of the system, this component funded studies and
workshops to improve FODEFCA's effectiveness and performance and to ensure systemic sustainability.
Studies were conducted on: the partners' evaluation of the fund intervention mechanism (2003); constraints
in tenders on training operators (2003); and financial management of the fund for development of in-service
vocational training and apprenticeships (2005). A reflection workshop was held for FODEFCA staff on
activities to foster fund sustainability (2004).     Overall, the financing predictability has been an
important element for building confidence of key stakeholders in this new institutional
arrangement.

DFPC Institutional Strengthening: DFPC skills were strengthened through equipment and materials
acquisition and through staff training in different areas. With this support, the DFPC could monitor
conformity of project activities with the national in-service vocational training policy.

OEF Institutional Strengthening: OEF benefited from various training and equipment provided within the
project framework. Despite this support, this institution could not play the role envisioned for it in the
project. The exchange and twinning network was not created. OEF failures caused delays in the conduct
of impact evaluation studies but did not seriously impair project performances insofar as its tasks were
successfully taken over by FODEFCA.

Training-provider capacity strengthening: One hundred fourteen operators qualified as trainers: 64
private centers, 57 nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and 23 public centers. The results achieved in
the private sector were twice as high as originally expected (64 qualified private providers instead of 32).
The trainer-qualification process had two positive effects: it improved the quality of (i) in-field training and
(ii) tenders formulated by prospective trainers. The study for evaluating trainers' own training needs was
not undertaken. This does not, however, decrease the positive assessment of training activities implemented
in this area. The lessons learned in the first years of collaboration between FODEFCA and operators were
sufficient to guide their training.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The current net value technique was not utilized by the Project. On the contrary, attention was
focused on unit cost analysis and on training impact (see Annex 3).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact directly attributed to the project is substantial. This assessment is
based on the following: (i) The operationalization of the autonomous fund FODEFCA is a major
accomplishment. Its staff is well equipped to manage supply and demand for quality training (private and
public) to meet labor market needs. The fund autonomy was crucial in facilitating its flexibility which
allowed beneficiary expectations and provider capacities to be taken into account. (ii) Logistical
support reinforced the operational capacities of institutions implicated in project implementation. (iii) The


                                                     - 11 -

well-qualified people recruited and trained in M&E, accounting management, management of training tools,
and other areas of expertise constitute an important and capable team for ensuring the continuation and
expansion of project activities.

Because FODEFCA was created at almost the same time as the project was being designed, the
development of its capacities is directly linked to project impact. It now serves as a reference point in the
vocational training landscape and is arousing the interest of different types of stakeholders: external
partners, professional and producer organizations as well as public entities. This situation facilitated the
institutionalization of a tripartite partnership among different groups of stakeholders who do not have
tradition of collaboration: the public and productive sectors in their diversity (modern, informal, and
agricultural), and workers' representatives (associations, trade unions).     The synergy thus created is
evidence of important progress on the national level.

Capacity building at training centers is one of the most important signs of institutional development. As a
result of the project, numerous training centers and institutes improved their professionalism through
recruitment of qualified staff, training, and equipment in order to qualify for fund assistance.
Intra-institutional competition enhanced the quality of training while maintaining cost-effectiveness. The
list of prequalified operators established by FODEFCA, based on competence criteria, went from 16
training institutions in 2002 to 114 at project end. The number of other training institutions that do not
meet these criteria is far larger.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was implemented in a stable sociopolitical context. No major incidents occurred during the
project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government's commitment created an enabling environment for the implementation and achievement of
project outputs. Since the beginning of the project, counterpart funding has always been prompt, and the
government's contribution has steadily increased from year to year. Although the national budget
experienced cash flow difficulties, unlike other projects FODEFCA was considered a priority and received
grants on a regular basis. The change of minister of finance during project implementation did not affect
the government's steadfast commitment. The government financed experimentation with PMPC to find an
alternative procurement mechanism better adapted to the informal sector.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
FODEFCA has created an enabling environment for continuing professional training, owing to the varied
composition of its Management Committee which brings together actors from different fields. This factor
has encouraged the engagement of many different stakeholders in the achievement of project objectives. It
has also helped improve the quality of training as well as promote its adaptation to market needs.
FODEFCA has continually adjusted mechanism activities and strategies. It has enlarged its staff to handle
the growing workload and has initiated and tested alternative selection procedures better adapted to the
targeted groups.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project was estimated at US$ 6.20 million--US$ 0.70 million from the government,
US$ 0.50 million from beneficiaries, and US$ 5 million from the International Development Association
(IDA). The project was implemented between March 2001 and June 2005, with a one-year extension. At
project closing, 93.23 percent of IDA funds had been disbursed, and the total government contribution of



                                                     - 12 -

US$0.81 million, exceeded initial predictions. At the beginning of the project, beneficiaries were
contributing 15 percent of the training cost; this participation was reduced to 10 percent at the MTR. Two
reallocations of the credit were approved, in March 2003 and November 2004, to cover operating and
consultant costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is likely. This rating is based on the following elements.

Appropriateness and relevance of FODEFCA activities: (i) By setting up FODEFCA, the government
signaled its determination to develop a labor force with the necessary skills to foster economic growth and
development in Benin. This commitment was dictated by a socioeconomic context in which a qualified
labor force is considered basic to poverty reduction. (ii) The results achieved--the high demand for
improved skills and the mobilization of the private sector around the system--show that FODEFCA is a
useful management mechanism. Its strategies and objectives are in line with labor market needs and the
expectations of different stakeholders who expressed their interest in this mechanism with their support.
These two factors are the foundation for project sustainability.

The government's political will to support FODEFCA activities and ensure their sustainability:
Throughout the project, the government's commitment to the project has been unwavering. This steady
support is shown by the regular disbursement of counterpart funds. In 2003, in addition to this funding, the
project received FCFA 75 million to test the community approach to procurement (Participatory
Community Procurement, PMPC). The government has also shown its determination to ensure continuity
in FODEFCA activities, estimated at an annual cost of "1.5 billion FCFA" (estimate from the proceedings
of the workshop on the FODEFCA's future perspectives) by allocating FCFA 400 million and FCFA 500
million in 2004 and 2005, respectively, to FODEFCA. These budgetary allocations were initially intended
to finance activities for the last six months of the year, given that the project was to have closed in June
2004 but was extended to June 2005. Budgetary allocations for 2006, FCFA 900 million, confirm the
government's commitment. In addition, broader discussions have been initiated with the minister of finance
to build a consensus on ways of sustaining financing of the skills development scheme by using the existing
tax levy. The required options aimed at ensuring financing predictability, an essential prerequisite for
confidence in the arrangement's capacity to meet the requested training needs.

The reduction in beneficiaries' contribution from 15 percent to 10 percent, however, increases pressure on
the fund's fiscal sustainability. This highlights the importance of managing tensions between sustainability
and equity.    To respond to this issue, FODEFCA has suggested adapting informal sector selection
procedures to include in-kind contributions. In a broader framework, promising discussions have been
initiated by the main stakeholders (especially the private sector) and the minister of finance on ways of
sustaining funding through the apprenticeship tax.

The interest of other development partners: Throughout project implementation, FODEFCA activities
elicited interest from other development partners such as GTZ, SWISSCONTACT, and French
Cooperation.    In addition to providing support to training beneficiary associations, the development
partners brought technical expertise to training curricula development and expressed their interest in
contributing to the system to ensure sustainability after the IDA credit closes.

The regular functioning of FODEFCA entities: The existence and operationality of FODEFCA is now a
reality that helps keep the national vocational training strategy afloat and on course.          The proven



                                                      - 13 -

effectiveness of the M&E methods tested reinforces national capacity (see section 4.2). The sustainability
of these methods, however, depends on the extent to which the government can build up and maintain a
minimum institutional capacity in the public sector to design and oversee M&E work in the future. The
reliability of the FODEFCA system is built on several factors: on its status as both an autonomous
organization and one also belonging to every sector and stakeholder category; on its ability to adapt,
oriented by action-research; and on the high quality of its staff. Through its positive results, FODEFCA
has proven that it is growing dynamically.

This set of elements helps strengthen the probability that FODEFCA activities will be sustainable. Some
relevant recommendations, based on lessons from similar experiences in other countries, have been
proposed to enhance FODEFCA's effectiveness and to ensure its continuity.               The sustainability of
FODEFCA will be determined by its response to a number of challenges. The most important include:
adapting the procedure manual to the post-IDA credit environment; mobilizing resources from the
apprenticeship tax and the government grant; establishing legal provisions favorable to in-service
vocational training in private enterprises; and exploring extension of fund-supported activities into other
areas such as enterprise advice. All these sectors are covered by FODEFCA, which reorganized its
activities in 2005 in order to provide answers to these questions.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since the closing date, no transitional arrangement with the World Bank has yet been made. The project
has, however, created a positive environment for strengthening the labor force. The government's ongoing
preparation of a new PRSP focuses on a growth-led poverty reduction strategy. This offers an opportunity
to discuss and enhance the vision with respect to the skills development needs. Similarly, and in line with
the Africa Action Plan, this theme is likely to be among the key priorities to be covered by the new CAS.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1 Lending
Overall, the Bank's lending performance was rated unsatisfactory. From identification of the project in
December 1994 to its commencement in 2001, the elapsed time was particularly long. Several in-Bank
factors are linked to this long delay, but particularly internal discussions on operational changes within the
country (choices about budgetary consolidation or programmatic approach).                Then, after lengthy
discussions between the country team and the management team, a firm decision to go ahead with a LIL
was made. Multiple changes in project managers also occurred during this preparation phase. Given all
these factors, when the decision was finally made to resume project preparation, the team had very little
time to change the initial strategy from a SIL to a LIL.

During project preparation, an effort was made to adapt the nature and objectives of the project to the
national context, based on preliminary study results.           The project appraisal was conducted by a
multidisciplinary team (procurement specialist, financial management specialist, legal affairs specialist,
labor market specialist, disbursement specialist). The team did not fully take into account all the changes
necessary to proceed with the operation following the decision to modify the scope of the project to a LIL.
This had some consequences on the project design (see section 3.5). In its 2002 report, QAG found that, at
appraisal, the project was not ready for implementation, the PDO was not clear, and there was no M&E
framework. Furthermore, the objectives were too ambitious and the indicators were not appropriate for a
LIL.

7.2 Supervision:



                                                      - 14 -

The Bank's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory.          The project's performance is partly
attributable to the quality of supervision throughout the project. Generally, supervision missions helped
establish an open climate for dialogue with major stakeholders. Made up of multidisciplinary teams,
supervision missions enabled design-related issues to be identified and solutions proposed for them. The
missions were proactive. Supervision reports during project implementation revealed progress as well
shortcomings as they occurred and recommended corrective actions.           The Bank country office staff
provided support to FODEFCA in interpreting technical and financial procedures and in preparing
withdrawal application and procurement documents. The supervision missions contributed successfully to
the preparation and the content of the MTR, which was a turning point in project implementation.
Simplifying the administrative process, and adapting the technical and financial procedures after the MTR,
expedited project implementation. However, some shortcomings were observed at the beginning of the
project during the supervision missions. The missions were infrequent (only two in the span of two years)
and often lacked the flexibility so crucial when implementing a LIL. These shortcomings raised by the
QAG were progressively corrected, especially through intensified implementation support to the PIU team.
At the mid-term review, the option to formally revise the PDO was discussed and abandoned for the
following reasons; (i) the team felt that the trade-offs were to use, in pragmatic ways the momentum
created by the MTR and the one year remaining before project closure, to put the project implementation
back on track; and (ii) the authorities have shown little enthusiasm for going through such a process

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.            Identification and preparation of
appraisal missions were rated unsatisfactory. But, the satisfactory quality of supervision helped address
most of the early shortcomings. As a result, the overall performance of the Bank is considered moderately
satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in preparation is rated satisfactory. The government participated actively at
every stage of project preparation. Preparation was done by a tripartite team coordinated by the DFPC of
the Ministry of Public Service, Labor, and Administrative Reform. The team included representatives of
employers, trade unions, and the relevant ministerial departments (Labor, Planning, Education, Industry,
Handicraft, Finance). The diverse composition of the team ensured that the project was consistent with
stakeholders' expectations. In addition, the government adequately prepared for project implementation by
formulating a national policy for in-service training, capped by the establishment of FODEFCA. It also
provided the technical and financial documents required to launch the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the government's performance in implementation is rated satisfactory. The government has
adequately met all its contractual commitments.       The government also demonstrated its commitment
through the additional financial contributions (see section 6.2). Some issues raised in section 5.2 were
partially addressed. To reduce the time for recruitment of consultants, and taking into account the nature
of FODEFCA's activities, the government granted the request from the National Procurement Commission
for exemptions to reduce some requirements. The Ministry of Civil Service, Labor, and Administrative
Reform adequately fulfilled its role of monitoring project activities in compliance with the national
vocational training policy through the active participation of DFPC. However, the difficulties of credit
approval by the parliament delayed the effective start-up of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's performance was satisfactory. As per the status of FODEFCA and as



                                                   - 15 -

outlined in the credit implementation procedures, the Executive Secretariat developed on a regular basis an
activity plan and budget and presented them to the Management Committee for approval.                      The
Management Committee also worked via the Technical Committee to approve subproject training directed
by the Executive Secretariat. The Executive Secretariat provided an activity report to the Management
Committee for review; this step enabled advisers to monitor progress and recommend corrective measures,
as needed.

Nevertheless, some weaknesses in FODEFCA's performance should be mentioned, particularly in handling
training requests to satisfy more applicants. FODEFCA was gradually able to develop its internal capacity
to meet project challenges. A training scheme including capacity enhancement of the project management
team, was developed and implemented every year (see section 3). The successful development of skills,
especially in building institutional capacity by the fund, was a crucial strategic contribution. In fact, it
allowed the management of the project by the action-research method, the technique best-suited to
innovative approaches such as this one. By applying this methodology, FODEFCA kept a constantly
critical eye on its management performance, both from a fiduciary and human resources point of view and
from a training operation point of view.        By its proactivity, it identified several issues such as in
procurement and found solutions for them with stakeholder support. For critical issues, it undertook
studies to inform decision-making.         In this way, strategic decisions were made, for example, on
decentralization by establishing the Parakou regional office and delegating some operational responsibilities
to it. FODEFCA also proved successful at mobilizing government resources.

FODEFCA played a pivotal role among all stakeholders, namely the Bank and other development partners,
the government, beneficiaries, and training providers. It coordinated training activities conducted by
different partners to avoid duplication and establish synergies in vocational training efforts. It served as the
true hub for stakeholders.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the government was satisfactory. The project PDO was achieved: The
National Policy for Vocational Training was successfully tested.         And the good performance of the
government and FODEFCA in project preparation and implementation justify this rating. Although the
direct impact of the project is difficult to measure, the lessons learned and the quantitative and qualitative
results achieved in terms of the number of trainees confirm its fit with the national poverty reduction
strategy.

Comments from the Government of Benin can be found in annex 9. They provide the government's
perspective on project history, organization, and implementation. Overall the performance of the project is
evaluated as positive.

8. Lessons Learned

The project results largely confirm that the establishment of a flexible mechanism for financing
demand-driven training activities to strengthen labor force qualification is a viable and interesting response
to the skills development needs of various economic actors, especially in the informal sector. However,
project implementation underscored that success and sustainability hinge on some key elements. In this
regard, the following main lessons could be highlighted from project implementation, some of them already
observed in similar projects.

l The effectiveness and sustainability of the mechanism depend heavily on the autonomy granted to the
     fund and on the extent of private sector "ownership." As an autonomous entity, FODEFCA has been



                                                    - 16 -

  able to interact flexibly and effectively with beneficiary groups and training operators. Moreover, the
  active role played by the private sector representative in Management Committee meetings has made a
  difference in guiding the team toward greater efficiency in project implementation. Also, the private
  sector's recent proactivity has been useful in the discussions with the Ministry of Finance on sustaining
  scheme financing with proceeds from the apprenticeship tax and will be instrumental in consolidating
  consensus on this issue among all stakeholders.

l The    credibility of the mechanism calls for the establishment of an adequate--and
  predictable--system of funding. The demand-driven approach and the organization of fair competition
  among training providers underline the need to be able to manage activities smoothly within a
  predictable short- and medium-term framework to sustain training demand and to expedite timely
  responses to the needs identified. Project implementation has built on this and led to efforts to mobilize
  resources early under the national budget so that project activities can continue after closure of the IDA
  credit. Unlike an earmarked tax levy, the present financing of fund activities from the national budget,
  allows limited predictability of available resources over the medium term. This issue requires further
  dialogue with the government and other stakeholders to enhance financing predictability and
  sustainability.

l Ensuring availability of other inputs such micro-finance and market accessibility is essential to
  improve the impact of training on beneficiaries, especially in the informal sector. As mentioned in
  the report, impact evaluations underscored that results in the agricultural sector have been limited in
  terms of revenue improvement due to lack of other inputs. This highlights the need to ensure effective
  coordination and/or partnerships in such projects with other development interventions. Without this
  coordination, the stated development objectives could be hard to meet.

l The competitive selection of trainers has a catalytic effect on their professionalism. But it must be
  further supported by adapting procedures to take into account low capacities in some fields. As
  presented above, the learning innovation dimension of the project led to a successful response to the
  need to align selection procedures with the beneficiaries' capacity by piloting participatory,
  community-led procurement procedures in selected fields.

l Financing a demand-driven training program together with the required beneficiary contribution
  should be accompanied by adequate evaluation work and suitable communication strategies to
  ensure equitable distribution of grants.       Project experience led to an amendment of the credit
  agreement to reduce the initial level of beneficiaries' financial contribution. But the FODEFCA team
  needs to continue reflecting on ways of taking beneficiary in-kind contributions into account in the
  selection process while also ensuring fair accountability by the training operator for training quality.

l There is a consensus on the importance of monitoring and evaluation activities to ensure effective
  implementation of a skills development mechanism, but closer attention seems to be needed to
  determine cost-effective options for performing M&E during design and implementation. The extent
  to which weak M&E at entry resulted in challenging situations during project implementation has been
  described above. In two areas, some interesting lessons could be drawn. First, monitoring training in
  the field by a FODEFCA team and carrying out post-training support and monitoring by training
  operators have proven essential activities, but they put pressure on both the institutional recurrent costs
  and the unit cost of subproject training. Second, impact evaluations of training activities which
  initially were to have been done by the "Observatory" were finally outsourced to the private sector with
  some success. Further dialogue with the government about building local capacity for monitoring and
  evaluating market trends should build on this result, with a view to broadening discussion about which


                                                  - 17 -

    activities should be publicly provided and which should be publicly financed and outsourced.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from the Government of Benin can be found in Annex 9. They provide the Government's
perspective on project history, organization, and implementation. Overall, the performance of the project is
evaluated as positive. The report emphasizes the main factors that affected project implementation. It
mentions the fulfillment of contractual commitments by the contracting parties (the Government of Benin
and the World Bank); the pragmatism of the World Bank supervisory missions in managing the difficulties
encountered; and the inadequacy of the procurement system at the beginning of the project. Moreover, it
underlines some lessons learned concerning mainly: the positive effect of the tripartite composition of the
FODEFCA Management Committee; the need to adapt the procurement system to trainers' realities; and
use of external evaluators to improve systemic transparency and equity.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 18 -

                                            Key Performance Indicators : Actual versus Target

Objective             Key Performance Indicators
                                                                                            Mid-term                     End of Project
                                            Baseline


Project Development Outcome/Impact
Objective             Indicator                       Target         Actual        Target         Actual         Target         Actual

                                                              09/30/2002




                     percentage of                                                                               60 percent      61 percent
    Please see the    beneficiaries are from          60 per cent    96 percent      60 percent     96 percent (20,000           (13,636
Development Objective informal sector                 (7,000         (1175            (10,000        (1,724       beneficiaries) beneficiaries of
  Statement above.    workers                         beneficiaries) beneficiaries) beneficiaries) beneficiaries) (MTR)          22,354 trained)

                                                              09/30/2002
    Please see the    Numbers of qualified
Development Objective private training
  Statement above.    Effective training
                      providers                            14             16            20             97             32               64

                      programs as                             09/30/2002
                      measured by high
    Please see the    completion and
Development Objective proficiency rates, and
  Statement above.    employment following                  8             22            100            33            200              335
                                                              09/30/2002
                      Cost sharing reflects
    Please see the    financing capacity of
Development Objective beneficiaries
  Statement above.    (percentage)                        15%            15%           15%            15%         10 % (MTR)          10%


    Please see the    Training Unit costs
Development Objective meet norms and are                                              F CFA          F CFA          F CFA
  Statement above.    sustainable                                                     67,000         57,000         67,000      F CFA 66,760*

                                                              09/30/2002                                                        6636 (of
    Please see the    Of 25,000 workers                                                                                         22,354
Development Objective trained, women count                                                                                      benefiaries
  Statement above.    for:                                2,800          435           4,000           617          10,000      trained)
  Project Outputs       Output Indicators

                      Numbers of                              09/30/2002

                      beneficiaries
                      employed post-
                      training                            5,250         1,175          7,500          1,724         18,750           13,636


                      Percentage of                           09/30/2002

                      beneficiaries having a
                      positive perception of
                      FODEFCA                             60%           100%           60%            95%            80%              90%

                     *constant 2000 prices




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of beneficiaries are from           60 per cent (25,000 beneficiaries)              61 per cent (20,000 beneficiaries) - MTR
informal sector workers
Number of qualified private training providers 32                                              64
Effective training programs as measured by     200                                             335
high completion and proficiency rates, and
employment following training
Cost sharing reflects financing capacity of    10% (MTR)                                       10%
beneficiaries (percentage)
Training Unit costs meet norms and are         FCFA 67,000                                     F CFA 66 760*
sustainable
Of 25,000 workers trained, women count for: 10,000                                             6645

* Unit cost of training at constant price bases 2000.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number of beneficiaries employed            1.- 18,750                                      1.- 22,354
post-training
Percentage of beneficiaries having a positive 80%                                              90%
perception of FODEFCA
1.1 Number of beneficiaries in non formal      1.1- 5,600 beneficiaries                        1.1- 6 591 beneficiaries
(non agriculture)
1.2 Number of beneficiaries in agriculture     1.2- 6,400 beneficiaries                        1.2- 10,811 beneficiaries
sector
1.3 Number of beneficiaries in entrance to     1.3- 4 800 beneficiaries                        1.3- 2,077 beneficiaries
labor force
1.4 Number of beneficiaries modern sector      1.4- 3,200 beneficiaries                        1.4- 2 875 beneficiaries


2.1 Monitoring and Evaluation of the impact    2.1 A study of follow-up meeting professional 2.1 Three impact studies are carried out in
of Training Programs                           standards is carried out each year.             informal (non agricultural) and agricultural
                                                                                               sectors. The results facilitated the strategic
                                                                                               piloting of the project.
                                               2.2 The Observatory prepares each year a
2.2 Annual labor markets, employment and       report on the labor and training market.        2.2 The Observatory could not discharge its
training report                                                                                task.
                                               2.3 The Observatory undertakes studies
2.3 Specific Training Needs in selected        (etudes de filières) to direct the decisions of 2.3 The Observatory did not undertake any
Areas (Etudes de Filières)                     training                                        study (étude de filières). But information is
                                                                                               obtained from other sources.
                                               3. The capacities of the three structures are
3. Institutional Development of FODEFCA,       reinforced by new human resources, training, 3. All the structures were reinforced in
DFPC, OE andTraining Centers (private and equipment so that they are able to play their        accordance with the forecasts.
public)                                        roles.
                                                                                               The new mechanism is functional. The
                                                                                               FODEFCA and the DFPC played their part
                                                                                               suitably. But the OE was failing.
                                               A study is carried out to determine the needs
                                               for training of the operators                   The study to determine the needs of training
                                                                                               of trainers was not carried out. But
                                                                                               information is obtained by other sources.
                                               The operators are trained and the number of
                                               qualified operators increased.                  The objective is carried out successfully.

1End of project




                                                                   - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Provision of Training                                     3.80             3.34           87.89
2. Monitoring and Evaluation System                          0.70             0.26           37.25
3. Strengthening Institutional Capacity                      1.70             2.20         129.41

Total Baseline Cost                                          6.20             5.80
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.00
 Price Contingencies                                         0.40
                          Total Project Costs                6.60             5.80
                  Total Financing Required                   6.60             5.80


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.10          0.00         0.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.10         0.35          0.00         0.45
                                   (0.00)          (0.10)      (0.05)          (0.00)       (0.15)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         4.70          0.00         4.70
Training, and Studies              (0.00)          (0.00)      (4.15)          (0.00)       (4.15)
4. Operating Costs                   0.00           0.00         0.50          0.00         0.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.20)          (0.00)       (0.20)
5. Refinancing of PPFs               0.00           0.00         0.50          0.00         0.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (0.50)
   Total                             0.00           0.10         6.15          0.00         6.25
                                   (0.00)          (0.10)      (4.90)          (0.00)       (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00          0.20         0.05           0.00        0.25
                                   (0.00)         (0.20)       (0.02)         (0.00)       (0.22)
3. Services                          0.00          0.00         3.93           0.00        3.93
Training, and Studies              (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.50)         (0.00)       (3.50)
4. Operating Costs                   0.00          0.00         1.23           0.00        1.23
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.85)         (0.00)       (0.85)
5. Refinancing of PPFs



                                                - 21 -

                                            0.00               0.00              0.39             0.00              0.39
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.39)            (0.00)           (0.39)
       Total                                0.00               0.20              5.60             0.00              5.80
                                           (0.00)             (0.20)            (4.76)            (0.00)           (4.96)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Training Grants                 2.90         0.40         0.50        2.61         0.42       0.31       90.0     105.0     62.0

Monitoring and Evaluation       0.70                                  0.26                               37.1

Institutional development       1.40         0.30                     2.09         0.11                  149.3     36.7
Total                           5.00         0.70         0.50        4.96         0.53       0.31       99.2      75.7     62.0




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic rate of return analysis was available in the PAD. The Borrower planned to undertake
analytical work of this nature along four axes: (i) assessing the cost-effectiveness of programs ; (ii)
designing and testing policies and mechanisms related to progressive cost-sharing by beneficiaries groups
and individuals; (iii) analyzing demand and labor market trends and their implications for training (numbers
of trainees, content and proficiency levels) ; and (iv) evaluating the economic impact on trainees and
employing firms in terms of wages and productivity via longitudinal studies. Research was conducted on
these different themes. A study on the cost of training helped delineate cost structures by sector and area of
training. Building on monitoring indicators, the average training costs remained under control and was kept
at the level commensurable with stakeholders' financial capacity, despite the fluctuations experienced in the
life of the project. The rate of counterpart funding from stakeholders is on average 88,4% compared to the
forecasted 50%, for a 38 points difference. Impact studies were undertaken and showed for certain sector
a positive effect of the training on revenues, living conditions and employment. Electricians, hairstylists,
professional fishermen who received training from FODEFCA have experienced an increase in their
benefits compared to the control group.        In the husbandry sector, results show that production has
increased in approximately 62% of cases and gross benefit in approximately 55% of cases. The training
has also been a source of employment: in the informal sector 26% of the beneficiaries have created an
occasional labor force and 22% a permanent labor force. It would indeed be a bit premature to assess the
overall economic impact of the project but as far as the positive impact observed on individuals ; the
investment made in professional training is beneficiary in the long term for economic and social growth.




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/01/1994                6    CORE TEAM : SR
              10/11/2000                     ECONOMIST (2);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2); SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/21/2000                6    EXTENTED TEAM: LEAD
                                             EDUCATION SPEC. (1);
                                             SR ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             ASST. (1); SR. FMS (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASST. (1)

 Supervision

              04/21/2001                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S               S
                                             SOCIAL SECT SPEC. (1);
                                             FIN.MANG.SPEC. (1);
                                             DISB.ASSISTANT (1)
              05/15/2002                6    LEAD EDUCATION SPLST.             S               S
                                             (1); SR HUMAN RESOURCES
                                             SPE (1); SR OPERATIONS
                                             OFF. (1); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ASST. (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASST. (1)
              11/20/2002                6    TTL/DELIV. EFFECTIVEN (1);        S               S
                                             OLD TTL (1); FIELD WORK
                                             COORD. (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1); SOE
                                             REVIEW (1); ASSISTANCE TO
                                             THE TEAM (1)
              12/24/2003                6    TTL (1); FMS (1);                 S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1); SR.PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPEC. (1); INSTIT. DEV. SPEC.
                                             (1); DISB. ASSISTANT (1)
              06/23/2004                8    TTL (1); FMS (1); SR. HEALTH      S               S
                                             SPEC. (1); DISB. ASSISTANT
                                             (1); IMPL. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT - GENDER (1);
                                             ACS (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1)




                                              - 24 -

               12/08/2004                      6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                                    DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                                    (1); SR. FMS (1); PROC.
                                                    ANALYST (1); CONS.
                                                    EDUCATION (1); SR. HEALTH
                                                    SPEC. (1)


 ICR
               12/03/2005                      2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                     TEAM ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    ------                         ------
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        18.95                       33,901.97
  Supervision                                 132.39                      241,492.52
  ICR                                          14.05                       20,343.61
  Total                                       165.39                      295,738.10
no data available for identification/preparation




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        HIV/AIDS
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Benin. Poverty Reduction Strategic Paper 2002-2006.

Government of Benin. La Politique Nationale de la Formation Professionnelle Continue, Décembre 1998.

Government of Benin. Decret portant création du Fonds de Développement de la Formation professionnelle
Continue et de l'Apprentissage (FODEFCA), Février 1999.

Government of Benin. Decret portant Statut de l'Observatoire d'Emploi et de la Formation, Février 2000.

Government of Benin. Manuel de Procédures Administratives Comptables et Financières ; et Manuel de
procédures techniques, 2000.

Government of Benin. Divers Documents, Notes techniques et rapports élaborés par FODEFCA.

Government of Benin. Various Consultants Reports on the Project implementation and Impact Assessment

Government of Benin. Mi-Term Review Report, March 2003.

World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy for Benin. July 2003.

World Bank. Development Credit Agreement between Republic of Benin and IDA, July 2000.

World Bank. Project Agreement between IDA and Fonds de Développement de la Formation
Professionnelle Continue et de l'Apprentissage (FODEFCA), July 2000.

World Bank. Project Apraisal Document for Benin Labor Force Development Project, June 2000.

World Bank. Various Aide-Memoires, BTOR, PSR of the Labor Force Developement Project, and internal
notes. Unpublished.

World Bank. QER Report. Final Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5), March 2002.




                                                 - 28 -

Annex 8. FODEFCA Staff (Executive Secretariat)



                    FODEFCA Staff (Executive Secretariat)
                                Post                     Provided   Number
                                                            date
                      Executive Secretary (ES)           07/01/2000   1
            Technical Unit     Training Specialist       11/06/2000 2
                               Supervisor                07/01/2003 3  5
 Executive  Studies and IEC    Studies & IEC specialist  12/02/2000 1
Secretariat      Unit          Assistant / Studies & IEC 04/01/2003 1  2
                               Specialist
                               Administrative /          11/06/2000 1
            Administrative     Financial Head
             and Financial     Procurement specialist    11/06/2001 1  4
                 Unit          Administrative Assistant  08/01/2003 1
                               Accountant                11/06/2000 1
           SE Assistant                                  11/06/2001 1
           Assistant / to SE Assistant                   08/01/2003 1
 Support   Assistant / Parakou Office                    04/01/2003 1  7
     team  Driver                                        11/06/2000 3
           Liaison officer                               11/06/2001 1




                                                - 29 -

Annex 9. Borrower's Comments

A.       Historique et organisation institutionnelle
Le Projet d'Appui au Développement de la Formation Professionnelle Continue (PADFPC) a été approuvé
en juin 2000 par la Banque Mondiale et l'Accord de Crédit n° 33976 BEN a été signé en juillet 2000. La
mise en vigueur est intervenue le 13 avril 2001, 09 mois plus tard. Sa durée d'exécution est de 3 ans. Il a
connu une prorogation et sa date de clôture initialement prévue pour le 30 juin 2004 a été fixée au 30 juin
2005.
La préparation a été réalisée par une équipe tripartite coordonnée par la Direction de la Formation
Professionnelle Continue (DFPC) du Ministère de la Fonction publique, du Travail et de la réforme
administrative. L'équipe comprenait des représentants des employeurs, des représentants syndicaux et des
représentants des départements ministériels concernés (Travail, Plan, éducation, Industrie, Artisanat,
Finances).

B.       Objectifs et résultats attendus du projet
Le Projet vise la valorisation des ressources humaines par le financement d'actions de formation de la
population active en vue de l'amélioration de la productivité des travailleurs, la compétitivité des
entreprises des différents secteurs, l'insertion professionnelle et la lutte contre la pauvreté. Il a pour objectif
d'expérimenter un nouveau programme qui vise à améliorer la disponibilité, la qualité et le rapport coût
efficacité des services de formation de la main-d'oeuvre et qui est particulièrement ciblé sur le secteur non
structuré et les femmes, en rendant le secteur public mieux à même de contrôler et d'évaluer les besoins en
la matière et le secteur privé mieux à même d'améliorer ses capacités de formation.
Il a été initialement prévu la formation de 25,000 bénéficiaires du secteur privé moderne et informel. Cet
objectif considéré comme trop ambitieux au regard des performances à la revue à mi-parcours (seulement,
1724 personnes formées) a été réduit à 20.000 réparti comme suit : secteur moderne : 3 200 ; secteur
informel non agricole : 5 600 ; secteur informel agricole : 6 400 ; apprentissage : 4 000 ; insertion dans le
milieu de travail : 800.

C.       Les composantes du projet
Le projet comprend trois composantes :

Composante A : Formation
Promotion, identification, évaluation, conception, supervision et évaluation rétrospective de sous-projets
destinés à fournir des programmes de formation à l'intention du secteur moderne, du secteur non structuré
et du secteur agricole, et à favoriser l'accès au marché du travail, et l'octroi de dons pour le financement
desdits sous-projets.

Composante B : Suivi et évaluation
Appui à l'élaboration et la mise en place par l'Observatoire de l'Emploi et de la Formation (OEF) d'un
système de suivi et d'évaluation concernant l'impact des sous-projets, au moyen des mesures suivantes : (i)
fourniture de services consultatifs techniques pour la réalisation d'études, la collecte de données et
l'établissement de rapports périodiques ; (ii) mise en oeuvre d'activités de formation, y compris dans le
cadre de programmes de jumelage ; et (iii) acquisition de fournitures de bureau.

Composante C : Renforcement Institutionnel
Fourniture de services consultatifs techniques et de services de formation, organisation d'études, d'ateliers
et acquisition d'équipements, de matériels et de véhicules afin de renforcer les capacités d'organisation, de
gestion et de stratégie du Comité de Gestion et des cadres du FODEFCA, de la DFPC et de l'Observatoire



                                                      - 30 -

de l'Emploi et de la Formation (OEF).

D. Avis sur les objectifs et les résultats attendus du projet

Sur les objectifs
Les objectifs du projet sont pertinents et concordent avec les priorités du gouvernement exprimées à travers
la politique nationale de la formation professionnelle continue, les préoccupations des bénéficiaires et des
autres acteurs qui ont exprimé, au cours de l'atelier de lancement officiel tenu les 19 et 20 avril 2001, leur
adhésion au programme. Par contre, la répartition par secteur et dans le temps des objectifs quantitatifs a
fait l'objet de quelques réserves de la part des bénéficiaires et des partenaires. Il en a été de même des
procédures pour leur lourdeur. L'atelier de la revue à mi-parcours tenu à Abomey du 27 février au 1er
mars 2003 et les différentes missions de supervision de la Banque mondiale ont permis de réajuster, au fur
et à mesure de la progression dans le programme, les outils et modalités d'intervention.

Sur le fonctionnement institutionnel
Pour avoir choisi la formation professionnelle continue comme levier de valorisation des ressources
humaines et d'amélioration de la productivité, le Gouvernement du Bénin s`est doté, en décembre 1998,
d'une politique nationale de la formation professionnelle continue. Le corollaire d'une telle option fut la
création en février 1999, du Fonds de Développement de la Formation Professionnelle Continue et de
l'Apprentissage (FODEFCA), établissement public à caractère social, doté de l'autonomie financière. La
mise en oeuvre du projet a été confiée à cette institution d'Etat.
Sur le plan organisationnel le FODEFCA est piloté par deux organes à savoir :
-     au niveau stratégique par un Comité de Gestion, organe tripartite et paritaire composé de
représentants des pouvoirs publics, des employeurs et des travailleurs ;
-     au plan opérationnel par un Secrétariat Exécutif chargé de la gestion quotidienne du Fonds.
Les différentes instances se sont acquittées de leurs tâches de manière satisfaisante.
Le Secrétariat Exécutif a démarré les activités avec un effectif réduit mais a été étoffé par des recrutements
successifs de personnel technique et d'appui. L'ouverture de l'antenne régionale de Parakou (450 km
environ au nord de Cotonou) a permis de mieux encadrer les demandes et les formations réalisées dans la
région septentrionale du pays.
Les partenaires locaux, représentant les organisations professionnelles, les associations de producteurs
ainsi que des agents de terrain des structures décentralisées des services publics ont été associés à
l'information, à la vulgarisation du projet ainsi qu'à l'expression de la demande et au suivi des actions de
formation. Par contre, l'OEF qui devait assurer la mise en oeuvre d'un système de suivi et d'évaluation
concernant l'impact des sous-projets n'a pu être opérationnel faute de ressources humaines, tant en qualité
qu'en quantité. Toutefois, il a réalisé, au cours de cette période deux études relatives au bilan de l'emploi et
de la formation au Bénin.

E.       Niveau de réalisation des objectifs et des résultats
Objectifs de développement : Améliorer la disponibilité, la qualité, le coût efficacité de la formation
professionnelle en ciblant tout particulièrement le secteur informel et les femmes. L'exécution de cette
composante a permis d'atteindre les principaux résultats suivants :
· Au 30 juin 2005, 10 732 bénéficiaires du secteur informel (non agricole) y compris les femmes ont été
formés, soit 61% des bénéficiaires formés. Les femmes représentent 29,7% des bénéficiaires.
· 144 formateurs ont été qualifiés dont 64 centres privés, 57 ONG et 23 centres publics.
· La qualité des formations est restée très satisfaisante eu égard au taux de succès (85% en moyenne) et de
satisfaction des bénéficiaires (90% en moyenne)
· Les coûts sont adaptés à la capacité de financement des bénéficiaires : la capacité de financement des
bénéficiaires est définie comme le rapport entre le nombre de sous-projets dont la contrepartie des



                                                     - 31 -

bénéficiaires a été mobilisée et le nombre total de projets dont l'opérateur a été choisi. Autrement dit, la
capacité de financement des bénéficiaires est définie comme le taux de mobilisation de la contrepartie des
bénéficiaires. Ainsi la capacité de financement des bénéficiaires a été de 88,4% contre une prévision de
50%, soit un dépassement de 38 points. Sur 379 sous projets dont les opérateurs ont été choisis, 335 ont pu
voir la contrepartie des bénéficiaires mobilisée.

Objectifs quantitatifs : Former au terme du projet 20 000 bénéficiaires

· Nombre de bénéficiaires formés : Au 30 juin 2005, un effectif de 22 354 personnes dont 29,7% de
femmes et 70,3% d'hommes a été formé dans les différents secteurs. Soit un taux de réalisation de 111,8%
par rapport à l'objectif. La carte des formations financées par secteur et par département se présente
comme suit :

Tableau n°1 : Répartition des effectifs formés par département et par secteur

                     Agricole     Apprentissage    Informel     Insertion    Moderne       Total
                                                   non
                                                   agricole
ALIBORI                2 185            96             401           -           169         2 851
ATACORA                  141           107             348           -            -          596
ATLANTIQUE               744             -             286          54           545         1 629
BORGOU                 1 444           312             885                       62          2 703
COLLINES                 902            30             407          94           254         1 687
COUFFO                   178             -             133                       134         445
DONGA                    135             -             121           3            -          259
LITTORAL                 533           352            1 868         61          1 189        4 003
MONO                    1 425            -             460           5           151         2 041
OUEME                    979           282             769          14           173         2 217
PLATEAU                  638            32             323          330            -         1 323
ZOU                     1 507          305             590           -           198         2 600
Total                  10 811          1 516          6 591         561         2 875       22 354
Taux de              168,92%      37,90%           117,70%      70,13%       89,84%        111,77%
réalisation

·        Nombre de bénéficiaires employés après la formation : la cible du projet étant essentiellement
composée de la main-d'oeuvre en cours d'emploi, la mesure de l'employabilité du bénéficiaire au terme de
la formation ne nous paraît pas pertinente. C'est pourquoi nous définissons cet indicateur comme le
pourcentage de bénéficiaires ayant créé des emplois après la formation. Selon les études d'évaluation des
effets/impacts de la formation réalisées : dans le secteur agricole, 13% des bénéficiaires ont créé de la
main-d'oeuvre occasionnelle et 2% d'entre eux ont créé de la main-d'oeuvre permanente. Le taux
relativement faible de création de main-d'oeuvre permanente dans ce secteur se justifie par le caractère
saisonnier des activités dans l'agriculture au Bénin. Dans le secteur informel, 26% des bénéficiaires ont
créé de la main-d'oeuvre occasionnelle et 22% d'entre eux ont créé de la main-d'oeuvre permanente.

·        Pourcentage de bénéficiaires ayant une opinion favorable de la formation : selon les études
d'évaluation des effets/impacts de la formation réalisées dans les secteurs agricole et informel non agricole :
(i) par rapport aux conditions de déroulement des formations, plus de 70% des bénéficiaires sont satisfaits ;



                                                    - 32 -

(ii) par rapport à la qualité des enseignements, 82% des bénéficiaires sont satisfaits des enseignements.

·        Nombre de membres du comité de gestion et du personnel formés en techniques d'évaluation :
Quatorze (14) personnes dont 12 membres du comité de gestion et 2 agents du Fonds ont été formées en
techniques d'évaluation. De même, un programme de formation élaboré dans le cadre de l'appui au
FODEFCA du Projet d'Appui aux Formations Techniques et Professionnelles (PAFTP) de la Coopération
française a permis la formation des 12 membres du Comité de Gestion en évaluation de projets de
formation, en ingénierie de la formation, en technique de lecture et d'analyse des états financiers et en étude
des critères d'habilitation des opérateurs de formation.

·        Autres résultats :

o        Effets sur la professionnalisation des bénéficiaires
Les différentes formations ont permis aux bénéficiaires de bien gérer leurs activités, de mieux organiser
leur journée de travail et de bien entretenir leurs outils de travail. Elles ont également eu un impact positif
sur l'intégration sociale. En effet, un bénéficiaire des formations de FODEFCA a davantage de chance
d'appartenir à une organisation socioprofessionnelle qu'un non bénéficiaire.

o        Effets sur les conditions de vie des bénéficiaires et leurs familles
Les bénéficiaires des actions de formation ont une propension à améliorer significativement leurs conditions
de logement, leurs équipements, leurs moyens de communication et à couvrir des dépenses d'éducation et de
santé de leurs ménages.

o        Deux bilans de l'emploi et de la formation ont été réalisés par l'Observatoire de l'Emploi et de la
Formation

o        Les résultats de l'analyse et de l'audit institutionnels du FODEFCA ont fait des suggestions
permettant d'améliorer les performances du FODEFCA et d'assurer la pérennité du FODEFCA..
o        Une base de données a été créée et opérationnalisée. Elle permet d'améliorer le pilotage
stratégique du projet en facilitant l'accès à l'information en temps réel.
o        Le Fonds a apporté des appuis logistiques aux structures impliquées dans la mise en oeuvre du
projet. Il a permis la formation des responsables et cadres dans diverses spécialités (suivi évaluation,
gestion comptable et financière, ingénierie de formation etc.)

F.       Facteurs ayant affecté l'exécution du projet et l'accomplissement des objectifs et des résultats

·        La préparation du projet : le projet a fait l'objet d'une préparation méthodique avec l'appui des
experts de la Banque Mondiale tant du Siège que de la mission résidente au Bénin. Le document
d'évaluation a indiqué très clairement les objectifs, les résultats et les indicateurs. Les bénéficiaires ont été
ciblés en respectant la structure de l'économie nationale. Ces indications ont bien orienté l'équipe du projet.


·        Le respect des engagements contractuels : les parties au contrat (la Banque mondiale et le
Gouvernement) se sont acquittées convenablement et à bonne date de leurs engagements contractuels. Qu'il
s'agisse de la mobilisation des ressources financières, de l'affectation des autres moyens ou de la tenue des
revues périodiques, les deux partenaires ont rigoureusement observé les prescriptions de l'Accord de Crédit
et de l'Accord de Projet.




                                                      - 33 -

·        Le pragmatisme et l'appui de la Banque : les missions de supervision qui ont régulièrement
assisté l'équipe du Projet ont non seulement fait profiter cette dernière de leur expertise mais elles ont
également eu une oreille attentive aux difficultés et craintes exprimées soit par le Secrétariat Exécutif et le
Comité de Gestion du FODEFCA, soit directement par les partenaires du projet, les bénéficiaires et les
centres de formation notamment.

·        Le fonctionnement régulier des organes du FODEFCA : le Comité de Gestion a fonctionné
sans entraves conformément aux statuts du Fonds et s'est investi dans la recherche des solutions toutes les
fois que des difficultés lui ont été signalées.

·        La procédure : la procédure de sélection des opérateurs de formation était inadaptée par rapport
aux acteurs concernés. Mais la révision à la revue à mi-parcours a amélioré la situation.

·        La faible qualité des demandes de formation : la faiblesse de la qualité a occasionné des retards
dans le traitement des dossiers. Le recours aux prospecteurs a permis d'améliorer les requêtes.

·        L'insuffisance de personnel
      L'effectif de départ du projet a été sous dimensionné par rapport au volume d'activités. Des
    recrutements complémentaires ont comblé ce déficit.

G.       Leçons à tirer
·        La composition tripartite du Comité de Gestion du FODEFCA est un élément important permettant
de préserver son autonomie et d'améliorer la qualité des résultats.
·        La procédure de sélection des opérateurs doit être adaptée à la réalité des acteurs concernés.
·        Le recours aux évaluateurs externes pour l'évaluation des offres techniques améliore la
transparence et l'équité.
·        Pour plus d'efficacité, il est mieux indiqué pour les dossiers à gros effectifs de sélectionner un
noyau composé des leaders du groupe à former. A charge à ce noyau de former le reste du groupe.




                                                    - 34 -

- 35 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33372

0                                1E                                                           2E                                                                                 3E                                              4E
                                                                                                                                                                                             To                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                           Dosso                    Sokoto

                                                                                                                                                                             NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                             NIGER RIVER   NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                                    RIVER

                                                            BURKINA                                                                                                                                                                                         12N

                      BENIN                                   FASO                                                             MékrouMékrou                                              Malanville
                                                                                                                                                                                         Malanville




                                                               Pendjari

                                                                                                                                                         AliboriAlibori
                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                          a i n

                To                                                                            n    t                                                           KandiKandi
              Dapaong
  11N                                                         PanjariPanjari            o u                                                                                                  SotaSota
                                                                                 M                                                                                                                                                                          11N

                                                                                              MékrouMékrou                                             A L I B O R I


                                                        a
                                          k or
                                                        ATA K O R A
                                      ta
                                   A                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lake
                                    NatitingouNatitingou                                                                                                                                                                                                   KainjiKainji

                                                                                                                               Bembéréké
                                                                                                                               Bembéréké                                    Tassiné
                                                                                                                                                                              ssiné
                        Koumongou
10N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10N



                                                                DjougouDjougou
                                                                                                              OuéméOuémé                             B O R G O U                                                       NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                             To

                                   To
                                  Kabou                                                                        AlpouroAlpouro                                 OkparaOkpara                                 Kaiama


                                                           D O N G A                                                          ParakouParakou




9N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9N

                          TOGO

                                                                                                                                                                                                      0   20       40       60       80         100 Kilometers



                                                                                                                                                                                                      0        20             40              60 Miles
   GHANA
                                                                                         C O L L I N E S
                                                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
8N                                                                                             SavalouSavalou                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information     8N
                                                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                        ZouZou                 Dassa-
                                                                                                               Dassa-                                                                                                             1E
                                                                                                               Zoumé
                                                                                                               Zoumé
                                                                                                                               Ouémé
                                                                            Couf
                                                                            Couffo                                                PLATEAUPLATEAU                                                                      BENIN
                                                                                            Z O U
                                                                                       AbomeyAbomey            Cové
                                                                                                               Cové
                                                         COUFFOCOUFFO                                                                                                                                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                          Bohicon
                                                                                                          Bohicon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
7N                                                                                                                                                    PobéPobé                         7N
                                        To                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                       Notsé                                Aplahoué
                                                                            Aplahoué
                                                                                DogboDogbo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIVERS
  LakeLake                                                                                                                                 OUEMEOUEM
  Vo ta
  Vol                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                               M O N O                                                                              E    SakétéSakété
                                                                                                                                                                                Ibadan                               MAIN ROADS
                                                                              LokossaLokossa  ATLANTIQUE
                                                                                                   TLANTIQUE                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                               MonoMono                                                                 PORTO NOVO
                                                                                                                                                        PORTO NOVO                                                   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES

                                                           To
                                                          Lomé                                            OuidahOuidah CotonouCotonou                  LITTORALLITTORAL                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                          BIGHT OF BENIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          BIGHT OF BENIN
0                                1E                                                           2E          Gulf of Guinea                                                         3E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DECEMBER 2005

