Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3397 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Labor Force Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 26, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3397 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by
 Fonds de Développement de 
la Formation Professionnelle Continue et de l’Apprentissage (FODEFCA) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II 
of this Agreement (the Credit) available to FODEFCA, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Association and FODEFCA;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 
11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment 
to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Administrative and Financial Manual" means the manual 
outlining the administrative and financial procedures for the 
implementation of the Project referred to in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined), and adopted pursuant 
to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Administrative 
and Financial Manual;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means  a group of companies, enterprises, 
workers or unemployed, to whom, or for whose benefit, a Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) is made, or proposed to be made;
(c)
"CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(d)
"DFPC" means the Direction de la Formation Professionnelle 
Continue, the directorate for in-service vocational training at the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Civil Service, Labor and Administrative Reform;
(e)
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between FODEFCA and an Implementing Entity (as hereinafter defined) for 
the purpose of carrying out a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under 
Part A of the Project;
(f)
"FODEFCA" means the Fonds de Développement de la Formation 
Professionnelle Continue et de l’Apprentissage, a public entity 
established and operating under the Borrower’s laws and regulations 
pursuant to its statutes dated February 12, 1999 (the FODEFCA Statutes), 
and the decree No. 99-053 dated February 12, 1999 (the FODEFCA Decree), 
and referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Grant" means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by 
Page  3
FODEFCA to finance a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part A of 
the Project;
(h)
"Implementing Entity" means a training institution 
responsible for the implementation of a Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined) under Part A of the Project for, or on behalf of, a Beneficiary;
(i)
"OE" means the "Observatoire de l’Emploi" established and 
operating pursuant to Arrêté No. 104/MTEAS/DC/DPE of the Borrower, dated 
July 28, 1995, as amended from time to time, and referred to in Section 
3.06 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Operational Manual" means the manual setting out, inter 
alia, criteria, procedures and guidelines for the administration, 
promotion, appraisal and supervision of Subprojects (as hereinafter 
defined), referred to in Part A (c) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and 
adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Operational Manual;
(k)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and FODEFCA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(l)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(m)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Association on August 22, 1995 and on 
behalf of the Borrower on November 14, 1995; 
(n)
"Project Semester" means the six-month period beginning from 
the Effective Date and ending six months thereafter (the First Project 
Semester), and any six-month period beginning at the end of the First 
Project Semester, or the end of subsequent Project Semesters;
(o)
"Project Year" means the twelve-month period beginning from 
the Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First Project 
Year), and any twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First 
Project Year, or the end of subsequent Project Years;
(p)
 "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(q)
"Subproject" means a specific training program financed, or 
proposed to be financed through Grants made under Part A of the Project; 
and
(r)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and FODEFCA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to three 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall 
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) 
Page  4
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by 
FODEFCA on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary 
under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of services required for a 
Subproject to be financed under Part A of the Project, and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in CFA Francs a  special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 
2010 and ending April 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
Page  5
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause 
FODEFCA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of FODEFCA therein set forth, shall take 
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable FODEFCA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall assist FODEFCA in the carrying out of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available 
to FODEFCA under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and FODEFCA, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association which shall include, but without being 
limited to, the provision set forth in Part A of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
Page  6
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall take steps, 
or cause FODEFCA to take steps, to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by FODEFCA pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making 
available its counterpart contribution to the financing of the Project:
(a)
cause FODEFCA to open and thereafter maintain for the 
duration of the Project an account in CFA Francs (the Project Account) in 
the Treasury and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of 
one hundred fifty million CFA Francs (CFAF 150,000,000);
(c)
deposit into the Project Account by January 31, April 30, 
July 31 and October 31 in each year, until the completion of the Project, 
such amounts as shall be required to timely replenish the Project Account 
back to the amount of the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b) 
above; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall 
be used exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be 
made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the 
Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause OE to prepare an annual 
monitoring and evaluation report regarding the impact of Subprojects, 
consistent with the methodology referred to in Section 2.07  of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
 Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
Page  7
sound accounting practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year 
after the Association has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine 
such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
FODEFCA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that FODEFCA will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The FODEFCA Statutes or the FODEFCA Decree governing the 
operations of FODEFCA shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of FODEFCA to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Page  8
Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions :
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and FODEFCA;
(b)
the Project Account has been opened and the initial 
contribution referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement has been 
deposited therein;
(c)
FODEFCA has adopted an Operational Manual and an 
Administrative and Financial Manual, both in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association; 
(d)
FODEFCA has employed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement and in Section 4.01 of the Project 
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 
to the Project Agreement;
(e)
FODEFCA has established an accounting and financial 
management system for the Project, satisfactory to the Association; and
(f)
FODEFCA has appointed its Administrative and Financial 
Chief, its Chief of Studies and Information, Education and Communication, 
an accountant, a procurement specialist and two vocational training 
advisors, all in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 
1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association :
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by FODEFCA, and is legally binding upon FODEFCA  in accordance 
with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and FODEFCA and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and FODEFCA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years 
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  9
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances
B.P. 302
Cotonou, 
Republic of Benin
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFINANCES
5009 or
(229) 30 18 51
COTONOU
5289 MINFIN
(229) 31 53 56
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Lucien Tonoukouin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
Page  10
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Equipment, vehicles,
   75,000
100% of foreign
furniture and materials
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services,
        750,000
100%
audits, training and studies
(3)
Operating Costs
        150,000
90% of costs 
incurred 
from the Effective 
Date 
to December 31, 
2001;
80% of costs 
incurred 
in 2002; and 70% of 
costs incurred 
thereafter
(4)
Grants for Subprojects 
      2,000,000
100% of amounts 
under Part A of the 
disbursed
Project
(5)
Refunding of
        400,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
        425,000
TOTAL
      3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that, if the currency of 
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating 
costs incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
supervision, including office supplies, communication costs, office 
equipment and vehicle maintenance and operation costs, travel and other 
allowances, local contractual staff salaries; but excluding salaries of 
the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement; and (b) in respect of a Grant unless the 
Grant has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Page  11
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) expenditures 
for goods (Category 1) under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; (ii) consultants’ services (firms) under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (iii) consultants’ services 
(individuals) under contracts costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; 
(iv) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the start 
up and pilot testing of a new program that aims to increase the 
availability, quality and cost effectiveness of labor force training, 
particularly targeting the informal sector and women, by strengthening 
capacities of the public sector to monitor and evaluate labor force 
training needs, and of the private sector to improve its training 
capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Training
The promotion, identification, appraisal, designing, supervision 
and evaluation of Subprojects to provide training programs for the modern 
sector, the informal sector and the agricultural sector, and for 
facilitating entrance to the labor force, and provision of Grants for the 
financing thereof.
Part B:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Supporting the development and implementation of a monitoring and 
evaluation system by OE regarding the impact of the Subprojects, through: 
(i) the provision of technical advisory services for carrying out 
studies, collecting data and preparing periodic reports; (ii) the 
provision of training, including twinning programs; and (iii) the 
acquisition of office supplies.
Part C: 
Institutional Development
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training, carrying out 
of workshops and acquisition of equipment, materials and vehicles to 
enhance the organizational, managerial and strategic capabilities of the 
Management Committee and senior staff of FODEFCA.
2.
Carrying out of studies to improve the efficiency and performance 
of FODEFCA.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services and training, and 
acquisition of equipment, furniture and materials to enhance the 
monitoring and strategic capabilities of DFPC staff.
4.
Provision of training, including twinning programs, carrying out of 
workshops and acquisition of equipment, furniture and materials to 
enhance the technical capacities of OE staff. 
5.
Carrying out of a study to determine the training needs and 
priorities of the Implementing Entities.
* * *
Page  12
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
A.
Main Provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement
The Subsidiary Agreement shall include, but without being limited 
to, provisions to the following effect:
(a)
the obligation of FODEFCA to perform all of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement;
(b)
the amount allocated to Subprojects shall be used 
exclusively to finance Subprojects on a grant basis;
(c)
no Subproject shall be considered for financing under the 
Project except in accordance with the eligibility criteria, and terms and 
conditions, set forth in an Operational Manual adopted by FODEFCA, and 
approved by the Borrower and the Association;
(d)
goods and services required for the Project (including the 
Subprojects) shall be procured in accordance with the Association’s 
procedures as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(e)
any Grant in excess of three million CFA Francs (CFAF 
3,000,000) shall be approved by the Management Committee ( Comité de 
Gestion) of FODEFCA;  any Grant of three million CFA Francs (CFAF 
3,000,000) or less shall be approved by the Executive Secretary 
(Secrétaire Exécutif) of FODEFCA;
(f)
no Grant shall be in excess of thirty million CFA Francs 
(CFAF 30,000,000); and
(g)
no Subproject shall be executed under Part A of the Project, 
unless a Financing Agreement has been concluded between the Implementing 
Entity and FODEFCA, setting forth the respective obligations of the 
parties thereunder, including details of disbursement schedules and 
procurement procedures, and the amount of the relevant counterpart 
contribution.
B.
Overall Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the experience and performance 
of the four (4) Borrower’s representatives on the Management Committee of 
FODEFCA, appointed in conformity with the provisions of the FODEFCA 
Statutes, shall be satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) the 
concerned Borrower’s Ministries and agencies shall collaborate with 
FODEFCA, in particular with respect to the appointment of individuals 
whose experience and performance are satisfactory to the Association, and 
who shall assist FODEFCA in ensuring consistent application of the 
Borrower’s sectoral policies.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than the end of the First Project Semester, and 
not later than the end of each Project Semester thereafter, undertake, in 
conjunction with the Association and FODEFCA, a joint semi-annual review 
on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in 
Page  13
particular: (i) the progress achieved by the Borrower and FODEFCA during 
the current fiscal year, having regard to the monitoring indicators 
referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and (ii) any 
recommendations made by OE in its annual monitoring and evaluation 
reports;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each semiannual review, 
furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of the Project;
(d)
following each semiannual review, act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, or assist FODEFCA in taking, any corrective 
action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the 
implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist FODEFCA in 
implementing, such measures as may have been agreed upon between the 
parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and
(e)
promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures 
necessary on its part to organize, in conjunction with the Association 
and FODEFCA, a workshop for the launching of the Project implementation 
which shall cover, inter
alia, disbursement and procurement procedures 
and detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project.
3.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about eighteen months after the Effective Date, the 
Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association and FODEFCA a 
midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project 
(hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
(i)
a review of the Subprojects financed under the 
Project, including the impact of the Subprojects on 
the Beneficiaries’ productivity; and
(ii)
a discussion of the options for ensuring the 
long-term sustainability of FODEFCA, based on an 
institutional assessment.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm 
Review, furnish to the Association a separate report describing the 
status of implementation of each component of the Project and a summary 
report of Project implementation generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the 
Midterm Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, 
for the further implementation of the Project having regard to the 
findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action 
program.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
Page  14
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of CFAF 
300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of CFAF 150,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests 
for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
Page  15
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
