Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3397 BEN
Project Agreement
(Labor Force Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FONDS DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA FORMATION 
PROFESSIONNELLE CONTINUE ET DE L’APPRENTISSAGE
Dated July 26, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3397 BEN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and FONDS DE DÉVELOPPEMENT DE LA FORMATION 
PROFESSIONNELLE CONTINUE ET DE L’APPRENTISSAGE (FODEFCA).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and the Association, 
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that 
FODEFCA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and FODEFCA, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to FODEFCA  on the 
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS FODEFCA, in consideration of the Association’s entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FODEFCA declares its commitment to the objective 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Association and FODEFCA shall otherwise 
agree, FODEFCA shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. FODEFCA shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement. 
Section 2.04. FODEFCA shall duly perform all its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement, the Operational Manual and the Administrative 
and Financial Manual.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
FODEFCA shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) FODEFCA shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the 
Subsidiary Agreement, the Operational Manual, the Administrative and 
Financial Manual and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
(b) 
FODEFCA shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by FODEFCA of its obligations under this Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Agreement, the Operational Manual and the Administrative and 
Financial Manual.
(c)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, 
FODEFCA shall participate fully in the reviews referred to in paragraphs 
B.2 (b) and B.3 (a) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement 
and, to this end, shall: (i) furnish to the Borrower and the Association 
such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in such detail as 
the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress 
Page  3
and status of the Project; (ii) following each review, act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, or assist the Borrower in taking, any 
corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the 
implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist the Borrower in 
implementing, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between 
the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and (iii) 
take all measures on its part to organize, in conjunction with the 
Association and the Borrower, the workshop referred to in paragraph B.2 
(e) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.06.  FODEFCA shall ensure that amounts deposited into the 
Project Account referred to in Section 3.05 of the Development Credit 
Agreement shall be used exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures 
made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services for the Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds 
of the Credit.
Section 2.07.  By June 30, 2001, FODEFCA shall adopt a methodology, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, for the monitoring 
and evaluation of the impact of the Subprojects.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FODEFCA 
Section 3.01. FODEFCA shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. FODEFCA shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. FODEFCA shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) FODEFCA shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
FODEFCA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and report of such audit, 
Page  4
by said auditors,  of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and financial 
statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  (a)  Without limitation upon the provisions of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, FODEFCA shall carry out a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the 
financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01  in order to enable FODEFCA, not later than December 31, 2001, or 
such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association and of FODEFCA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of 
the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
Page  5
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify FODEFCA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For FODEFCA:
Fonds de Développement de la Formation Professionnelle 
   Continue et de l’Apprentissage
01 BP 907 RP
Cotonou, Republic of Benin
Facsimile:
(229) 31 32 23
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of FODEFCA, may be taken or executed by the Executive Secretary or 
such other person or persons as the Executive Secretary shall designate 
in writing, and FODEFCA shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
FONDS DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA FORMATION
   PROFESSIONNELLE CONTINUE ET DE L’APPRENTISSAGE
By /s/ Lucien Tonoukouin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
"Bank member countries" and "member country"  shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".  
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or more per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of  national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
Page  7
the Guidelines.
3.
Limited International Bidding
Specialized software for the monitoring and evaluation system of 
the Project estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or less, may be procured 
under a contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.2 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement 
of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more; and (ii) the contract for the specialized software 
for the monitoring and evaluation system of the Project, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
"Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  8
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for training programs under Part A of the Project which 
are estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Page  9
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
General
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FODEFCA shall: (i) 
apply criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the 
Operational Manual and the Administrative and Financial Manual; and (ii) 
not amend, or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the Operational 
Manual and the Administrative and Financial Manual or any provision 
thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
FODEFCA shall take the action referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of the 
Development Credit Agreement.
2.
FODEFCA shall operate under the overall control of a Management 
Committee (
Comité de Gestion) whose composition shall be as indicated in 
the FODEFCA Statutes.  
3.
The Management Committee shall maintain until the completion of the 
Project an Executive Secretary (Secrétaire Exécutif), who shall be 
responsible for the day to day management of activities under the Project 
and whose experience and performance are satisfactory to the Borrower and 
the Association.  The Executive Secretary shall be assisted by an 
Executive Secretariat whose composition shall be as indicated in the 
Operational Manual.
B.
Part A of the Project
4.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit unless FODEFCA has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Operational 
Manual, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified 
in the Operational Manual, which shall include, inter
alia, the 
following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be for any of the types of training 
referred to in Part A of the Project and detailed in the Operational 
Manual;
(b)
the Subproject shall be technically sound in accordance with 
the criteria/parameters  specified in the Operational Manual; and
(c)
the Beneficiary shall provide at least 15% of the estimated 
Subproject costs in the form of cash.
5.
Procedures
(a)
Applications for Grants of three million CFA Francs (CFAF 
3,000,000) or less shall be approved by the Executive Secretary.
(b)
Applications for Grants in excess of three million CFA 
Francs (CFAF 3,000,000) shall be approved by the Management Committee.
(c)
Upon the approval of an application for a Grant, the 
administrative and financial unit of the Executive Secretariat, in 
collaboration with the technical unit of the Executive Secretariat, shall 
Page  10
then proceed with the recruitment of an Implementing Entity in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of the Operational Manual and Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
6.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, to be 
concluded between FODEFCA and the Implementing Entity, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall 
include the following:
(a)
financing shall be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance 
with the Operational Manual and the Administrative and Financial Manual, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(ii) such services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Subproject;
(d)
the right of FODEFCA to inspect, by itself, or jointly with 
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the training sites 
used for the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records 
and documents;
(e)
the right of FODEFCA to obtain all information as FODEFCA or 
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operations and financial conditions of the Subproject; and
(f)
the right of FODEFCA to suspend or terminate the right of 
the Implementing Entity to use the proceeds of the Grant  for the 
Subproject upon failure by the Implementing Entity to perform any of its 
obligations under its Financing Agreement.
7.
FODEFCA shall submit to the Association, for its review or 
approval, as the case may be:
(a)
before the beginning of each Project Year, a proposed annual 
work program, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the 
forthcoming fiscal year; and
(b)
semiannual and annual progress reports on the status of the 
Project, including regular beneficiary feedback reports and Subprojects 
completion reports.
