Page  1
CONFORMED COPY      
GRANT AGREEMENT No. TF 029250     
Japanese Grant
Agreement
(Labor Force Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
 provided by JAPAN
Dated October 2, 1995
GRANT NUMBER TF 029250
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1995, between the REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Recipient) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator 
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Association, Japan has 
Page  2
requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer 
grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such letter 
agreement; and
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said grant 
funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12), and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and  9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i) 
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International Development Association 
acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between 
Japan and the Bank and the Association referred to in Recital (A) of this 
Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include 
the International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Page  3
Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its books in the name 
of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; provided, however, 
that, if the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have 
been paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator shall, at the 
request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such 
withdrawal.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth; and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
the term “CFAF” means the currency of the Recipient;
(b)
“DFPC” means 
Direction de la Formation Professionnelle Continue
, the Department of 
Continuing Vocational Training in MTEAS;
(c)
“Employment 
Observatoire
” means the employment monitoring service established by 
the Recipient’s Arrêté Number 104 of July 28, 1995;
(d)
“MTEAS” means 
Ministère du Travail, de l’Emploi et des Affaires Sociales
, the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Labor, Employment, and Social Affairs;
(e)
“Project Development Group” means the committee to be established by the Recipient 
for the purpose of providing advice to the Recipient on the preparation of the Proposed Project;
(f)
“Proposed Project” means the proposed labor development project to be carried out in 
the territory of the Recipient and for the preparation of which the Technical Assistance is being granted; 
and
(g)
"yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of thirty-three million seven 
hundred thousand yen (¥ 33,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and 
to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in CFAF a special 
deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, and except as the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants' 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
 (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
Page  5
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the proce-dures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the applicable provisions of Article IX of the General 
Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish to the 
Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project;
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate practices, taking into account the Administrator's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministère des Finances
B.P. 302
Cotonou, Benin
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFINANCES
MINFIN 5009 or 5289
Cotonou
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN  
By  /s/ Lucien Tonoukouin
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By  /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the Grant, the allocation of 
the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated
(expressed in Yen)
% of
Expenditures
to be financed
Consultants services 
and training
33,700,000
100%
Total:
33,700,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for contracts for the employment of consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Technical Assistance is to assist the Recipient: (i) to prepare a proposed 
labor force development project (referred to as the Proposed Project) to be carried out in the Republic of 
Benin; and (ii) to improve the economic competitiveness of the Recipient’s economy through the 
enhancement of the productivity of its labor force.
Page  8
The Technical Assistance consists of the following parts:
Part A
:
Training and Retraining
.
1.
Provision of assistance to the Project Development Group in formulating a strategy for labor 
force training and generating a national consensus on such strategy.
2.
Carrying out a study tour for members of the Project Development Group and other staff of the 
MTEAS.
3.
Provision of training for human resource managers in the formal sector to assist them to develop 
and implement training plans for their personnel and to select training providers.
4.
Provision of training for individuals or groups of individuals (such as associations and Non 
Governmental Organizations), who intend to organize training under the Proposed Project for the benefit 
of workers operating in the informal sector, to familiarize them with the objectives of the Proposed 
Project.
5.
Provision of training to local skills training institutions involved in the provision of in-service 
training to enhance their capacity to assess labor force specific training needs and to develop training 
programs to address such needs.
Part B
:
Training Outreach
.
1.
Identification and development of training programs.
2.
Carrying out a pilot campaign to inform the public of training opportunities offered by the 
Proposed Project.
Part C
:
Labor Market Monitoring and Analysis
.
1.
Carrying out an analysis of the training needs of the formal and informal sectors in the territory 
of the Recipient in order to identify and prioritize such needs and develop and implement a labor force 
training and development strategy.
2.
Organization of a study tour for staff of the Employment 
Observatoire.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, 
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the 
Page  9
Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the Consultant 
Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, 
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, 
said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such 
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  
the term "eligible Category" means the Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)  
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c) 
 the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 7,500,000 yen to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that, unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 5,000,000 yen until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of 30,000,000 yen.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)  
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf 
of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
 (i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Page  10
(b)
 (i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 
4
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient,  withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under the eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) 
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)  of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within the period of 
time specified in Section 3.03 (b)  (ii)  of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c) 
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Category, less 
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i)  was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient 
Page  11
this Schedule; or (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A)  provide such additional evidence as the 
Administrator may request; or (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator)  an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the Administrator all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
