                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                               Report No: ICR2086



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-73160)



                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.8 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF CHILE

                                      FOR A

     SANTIAGO URBAN TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                                   June 25, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2012)

                Currency Unit = CHILEAN PESO (CLP)
                        1.00 CLP = US$ 0,0019
                         US$ 1.00 = 518 CLP

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       [January 1 – December 31]

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CPS            Country Partnership Strategy
DPL            Development Policy Loan
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
ESTRAUS        Transport Simulation/Planning Model (Modelo de Simulación de
               Transporte)
FM             Financial management
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GEF project    GEF Air Quality and Sustainable Transport Project for Santiago
               P073985
GoCH           Government of Chile
ICR            Implementation Completion and Results Report
MINVU          Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (Ministerio de
               Vivienda y Urbanismo)
MODEM          Methodology for vehicle emission calculation (Metodología para
               el Cálculo de Emisiones Vehiculares)
MOP            Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de Obras Públicas)
MTT            Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
MUSSA          Land Use Model for Santiago (Modelo de Uso de Suelo de
               Santiago)
NOx            Nitrous Oxide
O-D survey     Origin and destination survey
OECD           Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PDO            Project Development Objective
PM             Particulate Matter
PTUS           Santiago Urban Transport Plan 2000 - 2010 (Plan de Transporte
               Urbano para Santiago)
RPP            Restructuring Project Paper
Santiago DPL   Santiago Urban Transport Programmatic Development Policy
               Loan P082412
SECTRA         Transport Planning Secretariat (Secretaría de Planificación de
                  Transporte)
SEISTU            Urban Transport System Impact Evaluation System (Sistema de
                  Evaluación de Impacto sobre el Sistema de Transporte Urbano)
SEREMITT-RM       Regional Service of the Transport Ministry in the Metropolitan
                  Region (Servicio Regional del Ministerio de Transporte y
                  Telecomunicaciones para la Región Metropolitana)
SERVIU            Regional Service for Road and Urban Development (Servicio
                  Regional de Vialidad y Urbanismo)
SIVU              One-stop process (Ventanilla Única) information system (Sistema
                  de Información Ventanilla Única)
TAL               Technical Assistance Loan, here also used as synonym for the
                  Santiago Urban Transport Technical Assistance Project P086689
TOR               Terms of reference
Transantiago      Commonly used to refer to the public transport system in Santiago;
                  sometimes also used as a acronym for the PTUS as a whole or for
                  its public transport reform program
Transantiago-SE   Executive Secretary of the Committee of Ministers for Urban
                  Transport in Metropolitan Santiago and PCU for this project



                        Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
                      Country Director: Susan Goldmark
                       Sector Manager: Aurelio Menendez
                  Project Team Leader: Elisabeth Goller
                     ICR Team Leader: Elisabeth Goller
                                         CHILE
                    Santiago Urban Transport Technical Assistance Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs/Outcomes by Component ................................................................ 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 39
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 40
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 42
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 44
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 51
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 52
  Annex 10. Status of Transantiago at the Time of ICR Preparation .............................. 53
  Annex 11. Original Indicators and Degree of Achievement ........................................ 75
A. Basic Information
                                                                          CL Santiago Urban
Country:                Chile                   Project Name:             Transport Technical
                                                                          Assistance Project
Project ID:             P086689                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-73160
ICR Date:               06/25/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          CHILE
Original Total
                        USD 4.80M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 2.37M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 2.37M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Transantiago-SE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/02/2003     Effectiveness:          12/02/2005           12/02/2005
                                                                                  10/02/2009
Appraisal:            03/18/2004     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  11/11/2011
Approval:             07/05/2005     Mid-term Review:        10/01/2007           05/23/2008
                                     Closing:                12/31/2009           12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     72                  35
General transportation sector                                         25                  62
Sub-national government administration                                 3                      3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Improving labor markets                                               13
Other social development                                              13                  10
Other urban development                                               25                  15
Pollution management and environmental health                         25                  15
Urban services and housing for the poor                               24                  60

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Susan G. Goldmark                    Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Aurelio Menendez                     Jose Luis Irigoyen
Project Team Leader:       Elisabeth Goller                     Jorge M. Rebelo
ICR Team Leader:           Elisabeth Goller
ICR Primary Author:        Elisabeth Goller


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To support the implementation, monitoring, evaluation and continuous planning of the
urban transport reform program
To strenghten the capacity and improve the procedures to mitigate potential adverse
impacts of transport infrastructure works

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To support the Borrower in achieving an efficient and sustainable urban transport system
for Metropolitan Santiago

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Improvement measure identified in the evaluations of Transantiago implemented
                                                                            Several
                                                                            improvement
                                                             At least one
Value                                                                       measures
                Improvement measure not                      improvement
quantitative or                                                             implemented and
                yet implemented                              measure
Qualitative)                                                                more improvement
                                                             implemented
                                                                            measures still likely
                                                                            to be implemented
Date achieved 09/03/2009                                     12/31/2011     12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded
achievement)
                Information on the impact of the implementation of Transantiago on air quality
Indicator 2 :
                available
                                                             Information on
                                                             the impact of
                                                                            Information on the
                Information on the impact                    the
Value                                                                       impact of the
                of the implementation of                     implementatio
quantitative or                                                             implementation of
                Transantiago on air                          n of
Qualitative)                                                                Transantiago on air
                quality available                            Transantiago
                                                                            quality available
                                                             on air quality
                                                             available
Date achieved 09/03/2009                                     12/31/2009     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Target met
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                     Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 : Preparation of an institutional framework for Transantiago
Value                                     Preparation of an               Seminar on
                Institutional framework
(quantitative                             institutional                   metropolitan
                not yet existing
or Qualitative)                           framework for                   transport authorities
                                           Transantiago                        organized; draft law
                                                                               to create a such
                                                                               authority pending;
                                                                               Transantiago-SE
                                                                               strengthened from
                                                                               an organizational
                                                                               point of view;
                                                                               initiative to
                                                                               transform
                                                                               Transantiago-SE
                                                                               into autonomous
                                                                               entity ongoing
Date achieved 05/11/2005                   12/31/2009                          04/06/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target met
achievement)
                Design of an Action Plan to mitigate the negative effects of Transantiago on
Indicator 2 :
                street vendors
                                                                               Action Plan to
                                                               Action Plan to
                                                                               mitigate the
                                                               mitigate the
                                                                               negative effects of
                Action Plan to mitigate                        negative
Value                                                                          Transantiago on
                the negative effects of                        effects of
(quantitative                                                                  street vendors
                Transantiago on street                         Transantiago
or Qualitative)                                                                available and
                vendors not yet available                      on street
                                                                               transport related
                                                               vendors
                                                                               measures
                                                               available
                                                                               implemented
Date achieved 09/03/2009                                       12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Target met
achievement)
                Evaluation of pilot projects shows potential for public transport quality or
Indicator 3 :
                efficiency improvements
                                                               Evaluation of
                                                               at least one
                                                               pilot project
                                                                               Both pilot projects
                                                               shows
Value                                                                          showed potential
                                                               potential for
(quantitative   No pilot implemented                                           for public transport
                                                               public
or Qualitative)                                                                quality or efficiency
                                                               transport
                                                                               improvements
                                                               quality or
                                                               efficiency
                                                               improvements
Date achieved 09/03/2009                                       12/31/2011      04/06/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target met
achievement)
                Real time information on the accrued payment obligation to operators and
Indicator 4 :
                respective penalties available
                                                                             Financial and fare
                                                              Real time
                                                                             management
                                                              information on
                                                                             system improved,
                                                              the accrued
                                                                             but real time
Value                                                         payment
                Real time information not                                    information on the
(quantitative                                                 obligation to
                yet available                                                accrued payment
or Qualitative)                                               operators and
                                                                             obligation to
                                                              respective
                                                                             operators and
                                                              penalties
                                                                             respective penalties
                                                              available
                                                                             not available
Date achieved 09/03/2009                                      12/31/2011     04/06/2012
Comments
                Target not met, but some improvements to the financial and fare management
(incl. %
                system
achievement)
                Information on total revenues, expenses, deficits/surpluses and the equilibrium
Indicator 5 :
                fare of the system available on a daily basis
                                                                              Financial and fare
                                                                              management
                                                              Information on
                Information on total                                          system improved,
Value                                                         total revenues,
                revenues, expenses, etc.                                      but information on
(quantitative                                                 expenses, etc.
                not yet available on a                                        total revenues,
or Qualitative)                                               available on a
                daily basis                                                   expenses, etc. not
                                                              daily basis
                                                                              available on a daily
                                                                              basis
Date achieved 09/03/2009                                      12/31/2011      04/06/2012
Comments
                Target not met, but some improvements to the financial and fare management
(incl. %
                system
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     10/20/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           0.00
  2     01/20/2006         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                    0.01
  3     05/31/2006         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                    0.01
  4     12/07/2006         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                    0.01
  5     06/07/2007         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                    0.51
  6     12/12/2007     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    0.51
                                                    Moderately
  7     03/11/2008     Moderately Satisfactory                                             0.51
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately
  8     10/22/2008                                Unsatisfactory                           0.51
                          Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately
  9     04/07/2009                                Unsatisfactory                           0.51
                          Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
 10     07/23/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                                             0.51
                                                  Unsatisfactory
 11    12/06/2009     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              0.51
 12    05/21/2010     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              0.99
 13    12/21/2010     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              1.49
 14    06/28/2011     Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                     1.98
 15    11/26/2011     Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                     2.28
 16    12/28/2011     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              2.39


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     To better align Bank assistance
                                                     with the operational and
                                                     financial challenges of the
                                                     public transport system in
                                                     Santiago. Main changes: (a)
                                                     modification of project scope;
 10/02/2009       Y       MS    MU            0.51
                                                     (b) change in implementation
                                                     arrangements; (c) replacement
                                                     and fine-tuning of indicators;
                                                     (d) extension of closing date;
                                                     and (e) alignment of PDO in
                                                     PAD and Loan Agreement
                                                     To cancel part of the loan funds
                                                     because they were not anymore
 11/11/2011               MS      S           1.98
                                                     needed and to grant a four-
                                                     month grace period


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                      Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.0 Introduction
1.     The Santiago Urban Transport Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) accompanied
the Santiago Urban Transport Programmatic Development Policy Loan (Santiago DPL –
P082412) to underpin the policy and institutional reforms envisaged to transform the
public transport system in Santiago, also known as Transantiago. The reforms were
outlined in the 2000-2010 Santiago Urban Transport Plan (PTUS) and had an
unprecedented scope and complexity for a Latin American city, applying to the city as a
whole and affecting all public transport modes. Unlike Bogota with its well-regarded
TransMilenio Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridors performing just over 25% of public
transport trips while operating side-by-side with a chaotic mix of traditional informal
sector buses that carry the bulk of the passenger traffic, Transantiago called for a
complete transformation of the public transport system more typical of an advanced
country of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
2.      In February 2007, after a first phase of preparatory activities, the Government of
Chile (GoCH) implemented the full Transantiago reform. This meant that overnight the
GoCH changed the bus routes and stops in the city, reduced the bus fleet, integrated bus
and underground services, altered the fare structure and payment method, modified the
way bus operators operated and were remunerated, and made other changes. It led to
chaos in Santiago mainly for the following reasons: (i) the number of buses operated in
the streets was insufficient, (ii) the new route network did not provide adequate coverage
and required more transfers, (iii) the new fleet control, ticket validation and other systems
did not yet function properly, and (iv) people were not familiar with the new system.
There was also a huge delay in the construction of the segregated bus corridors, which
meant higher travel times and a need for more buses than planned. Finally, enclosed pre-
payment areas for off-board payment, which would have speeded up boarding, were not
considered. The GoCH immediately reacted and addressed these launch problems by
increasing the number of buses and services, reducing transfers, reserving street space for
bus use only, changing the fare structure and payment mechanism for operators,
constructing provisional enclosed pre-payment areas and more. For more details on the
implementation of the reform, the launch problems, and the way they were addressed see
the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) of the Santiago DPL.
3.      According to an independent review commissioned to complete this ICR (annex
10) in the beginning of 2012, the public transport system in Santiago had reached a stable
phase. At that time the efforts of the GoCH focused on renegotiating contracts with the
bus operators, providing them with increased responsibilities in terms of operational
decisions and making their revenues more sensitive to the number of passengers
transported. It was expected that the changes would force the operators to be more aware
of the level of service provided, carry more passengers, and fight fare evasion, therefore
reducing the financial deficit of the system. When viewed from a broad perspective and
using other Latin American systems as comparison, Transantiago provided a good level
of service for an affordable fare. However, the bus-based trips were still unreliable



                                            1
mainly due to the increase in car use and traffic in Santiago, the service level varied in
different areas of the city, and a number of other challenges still laid ahead.
4.     The troubled introduction of Transantiago directly impacted the TAL since the
GoCH shifted its focus to addressing them and nearly paralyzed project implementation
for about a year at a time when the first project activities had just started. They also
required project restructuring to realign the Bank assistance with the operational needs of
the public transport system after the launch crisis.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Sector Background
5.      Although Santiago’s transport system at appraisal was less chaotic than systems
in other large Latin American cities, it suffered from serious problems, which included
the following:
 Exponential increase in car ownership and use in the period between 1977 and 2001,
    putting pressure on the urban transport system through growing traffic and
    congestion;
 Steady and steep decrease in public transport modal share in the same period;
 Deficiencies in the organization of the bus system: for instance, (i) bus operators
    competed for passengers in the streets, which generated operating inefficiencies and
    dangerous driving; (ii) fragmented bus ownership with few sizable companies, lack of
    professional management and informality; (iii) poorly coordinated and chaotic
    transport supply not adapted to demand levels and oversupply during off-peak hours,
    contributing to unnecessary congestion, pollution and increased operating costs; (iv)
    long bus routes, most of them crossing the city center and heavily used corridors; (v)
    lack of integration between buses and the metro system, increasing travel costs and
    reducing accessibility especially for the poor; and (vi) low passenger satisfaction with
    the public bus system;
 Limited inter-agency coordination at metropolitan level: incipient coordination
    among the agencies dealing with transport and the absence of a transport coordinating
    body at the metropolitan level;
 High bus related accident levels: almost 25% of deaths on urban roads occurred in
    accidents involving a bus; and
 High air pollution levels, with transport as the major contributor to local emissions.
6.     In response to these problems, the GoCH designed the PTUS, a comprehensive
and innovative multi-sector exercise comprised of 12 programs, 1 of which a public
transport modernization program was by far the most important and complex one.


1
  The PTUS included the following programs: (1) Public Transport Modernization focusing, among others, on (i)
replacing the informal owner-operation with gross-cost contracting to 14 relatively large operators; (ii) providing
incentives to operators to acquire high-standard low-polluting buses; (iii) redesigning the route network into a trunk and
feeder system and reducing the number of buses; (iv) introducing a unified fare system; (v) separately contracting fare
collection and a public transport management/information center to control bus flows; (vi) limiting the number of taxis,
and (vii) implementing a comprehensive infrastructure program to double the extension of the subway system and
construct segregated busways, bus stops, interchange stations, terminals, and underpasses. (2) Road Investments and
Traffic Control, including urban toll roads, allocating and managing road space to maximize social gains through traffic


                                                          2
Rationale for Bank Assistance
7.      The Bank’s support to the implementation of the PTUS, and in particular its
public transport program, was expected to help address the main issues affecting
transport and mobility in Santiago. This support came in a package of three instruments:
this TAL (P086689), the Santiago DPL, and the Sustainable Transport and Air Quality
Project for Santiago financed through a Global Environment Facility grant (GEF project
P073985).
8.     The TAL was made to assist in the implementation of the public transport reform
arrangements. It was meant to provide the necessary technical assistance and advice to
support this difficult process of transformation.
9.       The Santiago DPL supported the public transport reform, including the
institutional, organizational and managerial transformation of the system to ensure its
continuity and sustainability. It also emphasized fostering more integrated coordination
among transport, land-use and environmental issues, including social and participatory
elements, and supporting the difficult process of reallocating scarce street space to the
exclusive use of non-motorized transport and public transport.
10.     The GEF project strove to accelerate the introduction of the PTUS as a whole by
concentrating on contributing to Green House Gas (GHG) emissions abatement with
different degrees of intensity and different implementation periods.
11.    In these operations, the Bank was expected to act as catalyst for knowledge
generation and transfer. It was expected to provide value added because of its long-
standing involvement in urban transport operations in Latin America and its global
experience and knowledge in the field. The Bank was also expected to learn from the
innovative experience in Santiago for the benefit of its future urban transport operations.
12.     This TAL was consistent with the goals and strategic approach set out in the 2002
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Indeed, while supporting the PTUS, it was expected
to (a) enhance sustained economic growth and social progress; (b) foster the inclusion of
the most vulnerable groups through improved access at affordable prices and reasonable
travel times, hence contributing to socially inclusive growth; (c) improve environmental
conditions; (d) promote public-private partnerships through a concession mechanism for
public transport services; and (e) modernize the State and build its technical capacity.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
13.    The PDO wording in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Loan
Agreement were different. The PDO as stated in the PAD referred to specific activities to
support the Borrower in improving Santiago’s urban transport system, i.e. ―to support the



management schemes with priority for public transport, pricing schemes, and parking restrictions. (3) Location of
schools and efficient management of school trips. (4) Promotion of New Commercial and Service Centers to reduce the
length of trips. (5) Change in Residential Land-Use Trends through, among others, mixed land-use and densification.
(6) Non-motorized Transport. (7) Immediate Actions to reduce environmental alerts. (8) Regulation of Urban Freight
Transport to rationalize freight traffic and reduce its environmental footprint. (9) Monitoring and Control. (10)
Financing. (11) Communication and Citizens’ Participation; and (12) Other Programs, including institutional aspects
and environmental aspects.


                                                      3
implementation, monitoring, evaluation and continuous planning of the urban transport
reform and to strengthen the capacity and improve the procedures to mitigate potential
adverse impacts of transport infrastructure works‖. The wording in the Loan Agreement
was more general, namely ―to support the Borrower in achieving an efficient and
sustainable urban transport system for Metropolitan Santiago‖.
14.    The PDO indicators were to (i) complete a survey to assess Transantiago’s impact
on transport demand; and (ii) design a monitoring system for Transantiago’s
environmental impact.
15.     The expected intermediate outcomes were the following: (i) institutionalization of
Transantiago; (ii) mitigation of negative effects of Transantiago on low-income groups;
(iii) improved road infrastructure management; (iv) Transantiago users well informed
about the system; and (v) better coordination between transport and land use planning.
The respective indicators included: (i) prepared institutional framework for Transantiago;
(ii) designed action plan with mitigation measures for low-income users; (iii) completed
road infrastructure management plan; (iv) carried out dissemination campaign for
Transantiago; and (v) proposed land use and transport planning coordination
mechanisms.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
16.     As already mentioned, following the launch difficulties of Transantiago, the
project needed to be restructured to realign the Bank assistance with the new operational
challenges of the system. It took over a year to redefine the project scope because of the
limited attention paid to the TAL during the Transantiago crisis. The restructuring was
completed in 2009 and at that time the project had only disbursed US$512,000.
Essentially the restructuring called for changes in the project activities, intermediate
outcomes, and indicators. Due to the difference in the PDO wording in the PAD and the
Loan Agreement, the wording of the Loan Agreement was adopted.
17.     The revised PDO indicators were the following: (i) improvement measure
identified in the evaluation of Transantiago implemented and (ii) information on
Transantiago’s impact on air quality available.
18.     The revised intermediate outcomes consisted of: (i) institutionalization of
Transantiago; (ii) mitigation of negative effects of Transantiago on street vendors; (iii)
improvement in quality and/or efficiency of Transantiago; and (iv) improvement of
Transantiago’s financial/fare control and management system. The respective indicators
were revised as follows: (i) prepared institutional framework for Transantiago; (ii)
designed action plan to mitigate the negative effects of Transantiago on street vendors;
(iii) evaluation of at least one pilot project showed potential for public quality and
efficiency improvements; (iv) real time information on Transantiago’s payment
obligations available; and (v) information on the system’s revenues, expenses, etc.
available on a daily basis.




                                          4
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
19.     The primary target group included public transport users in Metropolitan
Santiago, who typically are people with lower incomes. Because of reduced externalities
from public transport, the primary target group also included people making trips to and
within the city, regardless of transport mode, and all inhabitants of the city. The
secondary beneficiaries were institutions like the Executive Secretary of the Committee
of Ministers for Urban Transport in Metropolitan Santiago (Transantiago-SE), which also
housed the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and the Transport Planning Secretariat
(SECTRA). They benefited from capacity strengthening, improved analytical tools, better
data, and information.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
20.      The TAL had the following six components:
 Component A. General Urban Transport to (i) obtain qualitative and quantitative
    data on urban passenger movements; (ii) forecast urban transport demand by
    incorporating socio-economic variables into ESTRAUS 2 ; (iii) lay the basis for
    Transantiago’s long-term institutional design; and (iv) implement a road
    infrastructure maintenance management system;
 Component B. Public Transport to (i) obtain information to optimize fares; (ii)
    design intermodal stations; (iii) design a graphic information system; (iv) obtain
    information to optimize travel times; and (v) inform users of the new system;
 Component C. Environment to provide regular data on air quality and noise levels
    necessary to monitor and maximize the positive impacts expected from Transantiago;
 Component D. Land Use to (i) update the sub-models of MUSSA3 and assess three
    road pricing alternatives; (ii) promote activity concentration around transfer stations;
    (iii) facilitate transport and land use planning coordination; and (iv) support the
    implementation of the urban transport impact evaluation system (SEISTU) to ensure
    that real estate developers pay for their negative transport externalities;
 Component E. Social Aspects of Transport to (i) support a training program for
    transit workers and (ii) analyze Transantiago’s impact on low-income groups; and
 Component F. Mitigation of Potential Adverse Impacts of Transport
    Infrastructure Works to (i) strengthen Chile’s capacity in the areas of involuntary
    resettlements and (ii) harmonize environmental guidelines.

1.6 Revised Components
21.     The restructuring eliminated the original Component F and changed several
project activities within the existing project components. It also ensured consistence in
substance and language between the components and project activities in the project
documents and the Loan Agreement. The revised components were the following:



2
  ESTRAUS is the transport planning model of SECTRA
http://www.sectra.gob.cl/metodologias_y_herramientas_de_transporte/metodologia/estraus_02.html.
3
  MUSSA is a mathematical model to simulate the real estate market and make economic evaluations of the impacts
caused in the city (www.mussa.cl).


                                                    5
   Component A. General Urban Transport to (i) more precisely forecast urban
    transport demand by incorporating socio-economic variables into ESTRAUS and (ii)
    lay the basis for Transantiago’s institutional design over the long term;
   Component B. Public Transport to (i) carry out evaluations of Transantiago’s
    performance and identify measures to improve the public transport system; (ii)
    improve Transantiago’s financial and fare management system; and (iii) improve the
    quality and /or efficiency of public transport in Metropolitan Santiago;
   Component C. Environment to monitor the impact of Transantiago on air quality;
   Component D. Land Use to (i) update the sub-models of MUSSA and assess three
    road pricing alternatives and (ii) support the implementation of SEISTU to ensure that
    real estate developers pay for their negative transport externalities;
   Component E. Social Aspects of Transport to analyze Transantiago’s impact on
    street vendors; and
   Component F. Project Management to strengthen the PCU and to carry out project
    audits.

1.7 Other significant changes
22.     The modification of the project components/activities required minor changes to
the implementation arrangements, the revision of the cost allocation among components,
and a closing date extension from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2011. The project
also had a partial loan cancellation in the amount of US$1.4 million because the
Borrower financed several project activities totally or partially with local resources. The
reasons for the Borrower to do so included the following: (i) project activities, such as the
implementation of the financial and fare management system, were included in the scope
of ongoing contracts awarded according to local procurement rules and procedures; (ii) at
the end of certain fiscal years, Transantiago-SE had local resources available to finance
larger portions of project activities than envisaged; and (iii) some project activities were
completed after the loan closing date, so the respective payments could not be made with
loan proceeds.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
23.     The factors related to quality at entry that positively influenced project
implementation and outcomes included the following:
 Sound technical background analyses, profound sector knowledge, participation
    of multiple actors, and readiness. The project design and preparation benefited from
    sound technical background analyses carried out during the preparation of the GEF
    project and the Santiago DPL as well as GEF activities ongoing at the time of
    appraisal. This contributed to the solid knowledge on the sector reflected in the
    preparation documents. It also opened the doors to Santiago’s major urban transport
    actors, who actively participated in the identification of the different project
    components and activities. The terms of reference (TOR) for more than half of the
    project activities were ready at appraisal. These TOR were technically sound and well
    prepared.



                                            6
   Fully operational PCU by project effectiveness. Transantiago-SE was also the
    implementation agency of the GEF project, which meant that the PCU was fully
    operational when the project became effective and that the staff had experience with
    Bank rules and procedures.
24.     The factors that negatively influenced project implementation included:
 Lack of flexibility in the project description. All activities supported by the project
    represented high local priorities and were fully defined at the time of appraisal.
    Therefore, they were described in a precise and detailed manner, leaving no flexibility
    for changes. With the change in government in 2006 and even more with the launch
    difficulties of Transantiago, Transantiago-SE’s priorities shifted from a more strategic
    and longer term perspective, to activities with immediate impact on the public
    transport system. For that reason, and given the lack of flexibility in the project
    description, project restructuring became necessary.
 Shortcomings in risk identification and mitigation. The comprehensive risk
    assessment for this project did not anticipate the launch difficulties of Transantiago
    and the shift in project priorities due to these difficulties and the change in
    governments. Since these risks were not identified, no mitigation measures were
    designed and applied.
 Shortcomings in the results framework. The shortcoming mentioned later in
    section 2.3 made the precise assessment of the project outcomes more difficult.

2.2 Implementation
25. The factors that positively influenced project implementation included the following:
 Highly committed and professional PCU and Transantiago-SE staff. The
    commitment and professionalism of the people who worked on project issues was
    exemplary despite frequent changes in the coordinator of Transantiago-SE, two
    changes in PCU coordinator, and several changes in the technical staff throughout the
    life of the project. This is illustrated by the fact that despite numerous obstacles, staff
    managed to successfully complete studies (such as the ones on bus depots and
    terminals, as well as the impact of street markets on Transantiago) that were essential
    in the proper functioning of the public transport system.
 Project restructuring. Project restructuring allowed realigning the project activities
    with the changed needs and priorities of the Borrower and bringing the project back
    on track to achieve its PDO.
 Close follow up and monitoring. The Bank team practiced a hands-on follow up,
    which included strong sustained implementation support and regular follow-up
    conference calls to advise and assist the Borrower and regularly check the project
    implementation progress. This enabled keeping the project activities on Transantiago-
    SE’s priority list, except immediately after the launch of Transantiago, when all
    efforts focused on remedying the severe launch problems.
26. The factors that negatively influenced project implementation included the following:
 Crisis generated by the launch of Transantiago. The need to urgently solve the
    difficulties resulting from the launch of the new public transport system created an
    excessive work load in Transantiago-SE, which completely absorbed its entire staff,
    including the PCU staff. During close to a year of this crisis situation, limited


                                             7
    attention was paid to the TAL. This slowed down project implementation and shifted
    the technical assistance needs and priorities.
   Changes in authorities and Transantiago-SE’s leadership and staff. The project
    spanned over three government terms, which contributed to, but was not the only
    reason, for frequent changes in Transantiago-SE’s leadership and staff as well as PCU
    staff. These changes had some normal negative impacts on the project
    implementation pace and quality because new people needed to become familiar with
    the project and with Bank procedures and rules.
   Frequent changes in project activities. The changes in authorities and staff also
    shifted project priorities, which led to the replacement of a considerable number of
    project activities often already in an advanced bidding stage. The replacement mostly
    occurred because of a shift in the priorities of the organization or the government as a
    whole. In some cases, they happened because the commitment and ownership for an
    activity was with an individual rather than the institution she or he belonged to. In
    other cases, they stemmed from new needs that arose as the public transport system
    evolved. These frequent activity changes consumed additional time and resources of
    both the PCU and the Bank team.
   Multiple and lengthy procedures and administrative hurdles. Bank projects in
    Chile follow local and Bank review and control procedures for procurement and
    contracting. In addition, because Transantiago-SE is not an autonomous entity with
    legal personality, all processes were reviewed and authorized by both Transantiago-
    SE and Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (MTT), leading to the
    duplication of activities and lengthy procurement and contracting processes. At times
    the project also suffered from additional delays because the controllers’ office
    (Contraloría) and MTT had little experience with Bank procurement procedures and
    rules and the budgeting procedures to apply were not clear.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
27.     M&E design. As already mentioned, the original PDO in the Loan Agreement
and in the PAD were different. Additionally, the PAD’s main text and results framework
showed one PDO, while the data sheet of the PAD included two PDOs. No indicators and
outcomes were related to the second PDO of the PAD, but it was linked to the activities
in the original Component 6. All PDOs were somewhat broad and subjective.
28.     The original indicators were realistic in the light of the key project activities, but
not all of them adequately captured the level of achievement of the outcomes and the
PDO. For instance, carrying out a dissemination campaign does not necessarily mean that
the public transport users are well informed about Transantiago. Some outcomes were
also subjective, such as ―mitigating Transantiago’s negative impacts on low-income
groups‖ and the ―institutionalizing of Transantiago‖. Finally, the outcomes were mostly
related to one specific project activity only. Consequently, since the original project had
about 20 activities and only five outcomes, there were several implicit outcomes, which
contributed to the achievement of the PDO. For instance, the availability and use of new
planning tools facilitated the continuous planning of the urban transport reform program
and supported its implementation.




                                            8
29.     In the framework of project restructuring the PDO wording of the Loan
Agreement was adopted since it was considered a better reflection of the intended
objective. Several indicators and outcomes were revised to align them with the project
modifications. The revision of the results framework neither eliminated the broadness and
subjectivity of the PDO and outcomes, nor did it fix the direct causal linkages between
some outcomes and the indicators. In addition, one of the indicators that measured the
improvements in the financial and fare management system was redundant.
30.     The monitoring arrangements were simple and adequate for this type of technical
assistance loan. Data collection to assess the compliance with the indicator targets was
straightforward and required commensurate efforts and resources.
31.     Implementation and usage. Data was regularly collected and presented in a
progress report discussed during supervision missions. The information collected during
project implementation was mainly used to track project progress.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
32.     Safeguards. Originally, the environmental category of this project was C. In the
framework of project restructuring, the Borrower decided to change the project scope to
include the execution of pilot projects, which were to be defined in the course of project
implementation. Since these pilot projects could have required small works or have had
other negative environmental or social implications, the project’s environmental category
was changed to B and the Environmental Assessment safeguard policy (OP/BP 4.01) was
triggered. Transantiago-SE prepared, and the Bank approved, simplified environmental
guidelines. These guidelines included the description of the type of works envisaged in
the pilot projects and their potential environmental impacts, the applicable environmental
framework and norms, mitigation measures, institutional responsibilities, and a checklist
for screening, among others.
33.     Transantiago-SE screened all pilot projects for potential negative environmental
and social impacts. For the pilot project to test colored road surface treatments for bus
lanes, Transantiago-SE provided the Bank with an assurance from the provider of the
road treatments that they did not have any negative environmental impact. In the case of
the pilot project to install solar lighting at bus stops, Transantiago-SE produced
satisfactory evidence on environmentally sustainable recycling procedures for batteries.
No negative social issues were anticipated or arose in these pilot projects.
34.    The operation did not contribute to a wider agenda of strengthening the
environmental and safeguard capacity and procedures for public transport infrastructure
works because the relevant activities were cancelled during project restructuring.
35.    Financial management (FM) and procurement. Fiduciary aspects overall were
handled in a satisfactory manner even though the project registered minor shortcomings
in FM and procurement. In terms of FM, the project maintained overall satisfactory
performance and low risk. Timely and reliable interim un-audited reports have allowed
managing and monitoring project implementation. Audit reports were by and large




                                          9
submitted on time and considered acceptable to the Bank. 4 In the Independent
Procurement Review carried out in March 2009, procurement was considered moderately
satisfactory, mainly because of temporary weaknesses in internal controls and the
implementing agency’s low capacity to conduct procurement as per Bank guidelines.
This was due to a sudden departure of the then PCU head. The procurement post review
carried out at the end of 2010 considered procurement as moderately satisfactory because
of the limited amount of procurement activities carried out during the review period. The
last procurement post review at the end of 2011 considered procurement again fully
satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
36.     The prospects for the post-completion operation of the project vary. At the time of
ICR preparation, the pilot projects were in the process of being replicated at a large scale.
The results of most of the studies carried out under the project, such as the assessment of
the performance of the public transport system, the methodology to assess the financial
health of bus operators, the air quality monitoring exercise, and the organizational
improvement study for Transantiago-SE, were and still are likely to be extensively used.
The results and products of other activities, such as the SEISTU study did not yet find
practical applications. Similarly, some tools, such as the ESTRAUS model were and still
will be used, while others, such as the MUSSA model, still need further work to become
useful for practical applications.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
37.     The relevance is rated high. The original project design was adjusted to keep the
operation fully relevant in the light of changing circumstances largely attributed to the
severe launch difficulties of Transantiago and the cutting edge nature of the reform
supported by the operation. The original and revised PDO, which are similar in
substance, remained fully consistent with the development priorities of the GoCH. The
President’s Government Program 5 advocates for a ―dignified and efficient public
transport‖. In the case of Santiago, this mainly means an improvement in public transport
service quality through (i) the construction of bus corridors and lanes; (ii) ticket pre-
payment areas; (iii) an improved bus network with fewer transfers; (iv) metro system
extensions; (v) an improved institutional structure for MTT; and (vi) objective and
efficient pricing to reduce subsidies. Transantiago is among the strategic objectives of the
Transport Minister,6 who promised substantial improvements in service quality to the 2.5
million bus users in Santiago.




4
  The 2006 to 2008 audit reports had qualified opinions because the accrual basis was used to register a payment. This
was corrected afterwards. The 2009 to 2010 audit reports had unqualified opinions.
5
  Programa de Gobierno para el Cambio, el Futuro y la Esperanza, Chile 2010 – 2014.
6
  Cuenta Pública “Cumpliendo con las Personas, Cumpliendo con la Metas?, Ministro de Transporte y
Telecomunicaciones Pedro Pablo Errázuriz Domínguez, 2011.


                                                        10
38.     The PDO remained in line with the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)7,
which focuses on three results areas that broadly coincide with the government’s
development agenda: (i) public sector modernization; (ii) job creation and equity
improvement; and (iii) promoting sustainable investments. The project also meets the
current principles for Bank engagement in Chile, which concentrate on the provision of
technical assistance in areas in which the Bank has a comparative advantage and can
support the country’s drive to achieve its development goals. Moreover, for the Bank, this
project has been an important two-way investment, since the Transantiago experience is
highly valued among other Bank clients.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
39.     The assessment of the achievement of the PDOs presented some challenges. First,
as pointed out in section 2.3, the results framework had some shortcomings. Second, a
few outcomes were achieved by the Borrower on its own without contribution from the
project, such as ―Transantiago’s users being well informed about the new system‖, which
was accomplished through local contracts and finances. Third, according to ICR
guidelines, for projects with formally revised PDOs, the project outcome needed to be
assessed against both the original and the revised PDOs. This assessment is given below.
40.    For details on project activities and outputs and their links with outcomes and the
achievement of the PDO, see annex 2. The ICR data sheet includes the revised PDO and
intermediate outcome indicators and annex 11 includes the original ones.
Original PDO and outcomes
41.     The original PDO consisted of two objectives and its achievement was rated
moderately unsatisfactory. The project activities related to the objective of ―strengthening
the capacity and improving the procedures to mitigate potential adverse impacts of
transport infrastructure works‖ were cancelled and the objective was not achieved. The
second PDO of ―supporting the implementation, monitoring, evaluation and continuous
planning of the urban transport reform program‖ was partially achieved as follows (for
details see annex 2):
     The project partially complied with the PDO indicators of ―designing an
      environmental impact monitoring system for Transantiago‖ since it devised several
      elements of such monitoring system, i.e. the methodology used to regularly monitor
      Transantiago’s impact on air quality and a Web site to disseminate the results. In
      addition, at the time of ICR preparation the Borrower was working to complement the
      air quality monitoring system with a noise monitoring system.
     The Borrower on its own and with local funds will achieve the second PDO indicator
      of ―having Transantiago’s impact on transport demand assessed‖ once the origin-
      destination (O-D) survey, ongoing at the time of ICR preparation, is completed.
     The project also contributed to ―continuous planning of the urban transport system‖
      by making transport planning instruments, such as ESTRAUS, more robust. This tool
      was used to plan the extension of the metro system, among others.


7
    IBRD and IFC Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Chile for the Period 2011-2016, January 11, 2011.


                                                         11
   The Borrower, entirely with local resources,8 also ―facilitated the implementation of
    the urban transport reform‖ through (i) the implementation of a broad assistance
    program for public transport workers and operators affected by the launch of
    Transantiago; (ii) the revision of fare levels, structures, and the fare setting
    mechanism after Transantiago’s launch; and (iii) the implementation of small and
    medium sized transfer stations. All these activities were cancelled from the project
    scope during restructuring because they had been ongoing or carried out.
42.     Two of the five original intermediate outcomes were partially achieved by the
project, two by the Borrowers, and one was not achieved. The progress in achieving the
intermediate outcomes was the following:
   Intermediate outcome 1 “Institutionalization of Transantiago?: The project complied
    with the indicator of ―preparing an institutional framework of Transantiago‖ and laid
    the basis for the transformation of Transantiago-SE into a more autonomous and
    independent institution, likely to happen in the short to medium term;
   Intermediate outcome 2 “Mitigation of the negative effects of Transantiago on low-
    income groups?: The project only partially complied with the indicator of ―designing
    an action plan with mitigation measures for low-income users‖ because it designed an
    action plan only for street vendors, one specific group of low-income people. By
    implementing this action plan and making several routes changes and service
    improvements as a consequence of the project-financed evaluation of Transantiago by
    a group of Brazilian experts, Transantiago-SE also partially reached this outcome
    since low-income users normally have no alternative to public transport and thus
    benefit most from service improvements. More improvements are expected under the
    renegotiated contracts with the bus operators, which came into force between March
    and June 2012 and provide the necessary flexibility to do so;
   Intermediate outcome 3 “Transantiago’s users being well informed about the public
    transport system?: Transantiago-SE, entirely with local resources, carried out a large
    number of information and communications campaigns and activities and complied
    with the indicator of ―implementing dissemination campaigns‖. In the past,
    Transantiago-SE did not collect information on how well its users are informed about
    the system9 and several sources, including the review in annex 10, still consider user
    information in buses and at stops a challenge for Transantiago. However, given (i) the
    huge amount of resources spent by Transantiago-SE for information purposes,
    especially if compared to the limited budget reserved by the project for information
    campaigns, and the absence of any resources for information campaigns and
    communications under the old public transport system; (ii) the large number of
    information and communications campaigns and activities carried out by
    Transantiago-SE; (iii) the manifold information sources available; and (iv) the
    statistics on their use, it seems reasonable to assume that this outcome was at least
    partially achieved;


8
  The Bank team had a continuous policy dialogue on those issues and provided information on international practice,
especially as far as fare systems are concerned.
9
  At the time of ICR preparation, Transantiago-SE was contracting a study to measure the effectiveness of their user
information campaigns.


                                                        12
   Intermediate outcome 4 “Improved road infrastructure management system?:
    Transantiago-SE, on its own and with local resources, created a simple road pavement
    management system and so partially achieved the indicator of ―completing a Road
    Infrastructure Management Plan‖ and this outcome; and.
   Intermediate outcome 5 “Better coordination of transport and land use planning?:
    The indicator of ―proposing a land use and transport planning mechanism‖ and the
    respective outcome were not achieved.
Revised PDO and outcomes
43.     After the serious launch problems outlined in the ICR of the Santiago DPL, the
public transport system underwent important changes. Despite several remaining
challenges, at the time of the preparation of this ICR, Transantiago has become one of the
best quality public transport systems in Latin America. Most notably, it managed to: (i)
provide high accessibility at a reasonable fare; (ii) fully integrate the bus and Metro
services in the city; (iii) introduce a contactless smart card with 100% penetration; (iv)
formalize and professionalize bus operations; and (v) drastically reduce the significant
externalities that Santiago used to face in terms of pollution, accidents and noise (for
details see annex 10). These achievements were huge and by far and large directly
attributable to the GoCH.
44.     The project contributed within its limits of scope. It achieved and is still likely to
achieve the revised PDO of ―supporting the Borrower in achieving an efficient and
sustainable urban transport system for Metropolitan Santiago‖ with moderate
shortcomings and was considered moderately satisfactory. The achievements were the
following (for details see again annex 2):
   The project exceeded the first PDO indicator and contributed and is still likely to
    contribute to Transantiago’s efficiency and/or sustainability. As a result of Brazilian
    experts evaluating the public transport system, Transantiago-SE implemented a few
    service improvements (with more improvements expected), increased fares, applied
    measures against fare evasion, and renegotiated contracts with bus operators. Among
    other benefits, this led to reduced transfers for those users who benefitted from the
    service improvements, enhanced network coverage, and increased operating cost
    coverage. More positive impacts are expected under the renegotiated contracts with
    bus operators and the implementation of the results of the study on bus depots and
    terminals.
   The project assessed Transantiago’s air quality impacts and complied with the second
    PDO indicator of having ―information on the impact of the implementation of
    Transantiago on air quality available‖. The information on Transantiago’s air quality
    impacts was used to revise and make environmental standards of public transport
    vehicles more stringent. These standards led and are still likely to lead to particulate
    matter (PM) and Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) emission reductions.
   The project developed more robust planning tools, such as ESTRAUS and MUSSA,
    and the former was already used in several occasions.
45.    Two of the four revised intermediate outcomes were fully and two were partially
achieved by the project:



                                            13
    Intermediate outcome 1 “Institutionalization of Transantiago?: The project complied
     with the indicator of ―preparing an institutional framework of Transantiago‖ and laid
     the basis for the transformation of Transantiago-SE into a more autonomous and
     independent institution, likely to happen in the short to medium term;
    Intermediate outcome 2 “Mitigated the negative effects of Transantiago on street
     market vendors?: The project complied with the indicator of ―designing an action
     plan to mitigate the negative effects on street vendors‖ and by changing bus routes
     and services during operating hours of street markets to avoid interferences and
     conflict situations achieved the intermediate outcome;
    Intermediate outcome 3 “Improvement of the quality and/or efficiency of public
     transport in Santiago?: The evaluation of both pilot projects showed a potential for
     public transport quality and efficiency improvements. Therefore, the project achieved
     the respective indicator and this outcome. In addition, at the time of ICR preparation,
     the Borrower had taken measures to replicate the results of the pilot projects on a
     large scale; and
    Intermediate outcome 4 “Improvement of Transantiago’s financial/fare control and
     management system?: The project did not comply with the two indicators related to
     the improvement of the financial/fare control and management system. However, the
     information on the financial situation of bus concessionaires obtained through the
     project financed study and some initial enhancements to Transantiago’s financial and
     payment system carried out with local recourses somewhat contributed to the
     achievement of the intermediate outcome.
46.     As shown in the table below and following the ICR guidelines, overall the
achievement of the PDO for this formally revised project was also rated moderately
satisfactory.
                     Calculation of Outcome Rating for Formally Revised Projects
                                  Against      Against revised/       Overall      Comments
                              original PDO/     current PDO/
                                 outcomes          outcomes
1.   Rating                     Moderately        Moderately             -          Reasonable
                               unsatisfactory     satisfactory                     improvement
                                                                                        after
                                                                                   restructuring
2.   Rating value                   3                 4
3.   Disbursement (before      US$ 512,000      US$ 1,858,199      US$2,370,199
     and after restructuring
     and at project end)
4.   Weight (% disbursed          0.22%              0.78%             100%
     before/after      PDO/
     outcome change)
5.   Weighted value (2*4)         0.65               3.14               3.78
6.   Final value (rounded)                                          Moderately
                                                                    satisfactory

3.3 Efficiency
47.    Given the nature of a TAL, no economic and financial analysis was carried out at
appraisal. This type of quantitative analysis was not considered appropriate to assess



                                                14
whether the cost of studies and other technical assistance activities was reasonable to
achieve the PDO.
48.     In an ex-post perspective, it can be highlighted that the price of the studies carried
out was generally below the respective cost estimates. The studies, once contracted, were
quickly implemented and there were no cost overruns and only few contract
modifications. In the case of Components A and C, the cost overruns were due to the
inclusion of additional activities not originally budgeted. The overall project cost was
considerably lower than the appraisal and restructuring cost estimates for the following
reasons (i) lower prices paid for studies mainly in the case of Components D and E; (ii)
the fact that when preparing the restructuring cost estimates it was not yet clear how
many and what type of pilot projects would be carried out; (iii) to planned pilot projects
could finally not be carried out because the loan closed; (iv) Transantiago’s fare and
financial management system was improved but not fully redesigned; and (v) project
management and supervision was done as part of the normal operation of Transantiago-
SE and only required limited additional resources.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately satisfactory
49.     The overall rating is moderately satisfactory. The original and revised PDO and
the revised project design remained highly relevant, the implementation of the project
appeared reasonably efficient, and the achievement of the PDO was rated moderately
satisfactory as a result of the evaluation of the original and the revised PDO.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
50.     By contributing to the improvement of the public transport system conditions, the
project had positive impacts on the poor, the majority of whom use the public transport in
Santiago10.
51.      In terms of gender aspects, the evaluation of the pilot project which tested
photovoltaic lighting at bus stops showed that both women and men highly valued good
quality bus stops, but women considered the quality of bus stops more important (74.8%
of women considered it as extremely important versus 70.2% of men). When evaluating
the improvements at bus stops, women and men gave the improved lighting the highest
rating, with women providing a slightly higher score (6.1 on a scale from 1 to 7 versus 6).
Women also gave improved access a slightly higher score (5.4 versus 5.3), while men
rated improved information slightly higher (4.2 versus 4.1). When asked about the
priorities for bus stops improvements, both women and men picked safety and security,
the bus stop roof and lighting. However, women ranked safety and security highest, while
men considered the roof more important.




10
   In 2010, 91% of the Metro users were low and middle class people, with 15% of users belonging to the two lowest
socioeconomic groups E and D. Information on the socio-economic group of bus users is not available. Given the
geographic coverage of the Metro system and the higher fare, its users tend to be better off than bus users.


                                                      15
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
52.     One project subcomponent directly focused on institutional development for the
urban transport sector (for details and results see annex 2, Component A.2). Additionally,
it is worth highlighting that the project contributed to institutional changes in the
following way:
 Financing study trips for urban transport specialists to Bogota and Spain. These study
    trips were highly successful for a number of reasons pointed out in section 6 -
    Lessons Learned;
 Supporting the development of new tools for urban transport planning (see annex 2,
    Components A and D); and
 Strengthening the PCU’s capacity to carry out Bank operations.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
53.     At the time of ICR preparation, the Ministry of Economy was drafting a law on
street market vendors and used the results of the project financed study on street market
vendors as input. It is likely that this new law will lead to the implementation of measures
to improve the general conditions of street market vendors. These measures were
proposed in the study, but their implementation is outside Transantiago-SE’s
responsibility.
54.     In addition, the study on bus depots and terminal, carried out specifically for
Transantiago, led to similar studies in other cities and is likely to culminate in a change of
the legal framework on the topic.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
55.     No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops took place.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible
56.     The revised PDO of the project was to support the Borrower to achieve an
efficient and sustainable urban transport system for Metropolitan Santiago. Such a system
is essential for a thriving and competitive city like Santiago, and it is highly unlikely that
the Borrower will forgo it. Such a system is also fully in line with what is spelt out in the
current Presidential and Ministerial Programs.
57.     The risk that the different project outcomes will not be maintained and/or further
pursued is also low. The project helped to lay the basis for the institutional framework of
Transantiago, and strengthened Transantiago-SE. At the time of ICR preparation, there
was a political will to provide Transantiago-SE with more autonomy. The negative
impacts of Transantiago on street market vendors were mitigated. The results of the
project-financed study on this subject enable Transantiago-SE to take street markets into
account whenever making changes to routes and operating schedules. It is unlikely that
the improvements to the quality and efficiency of public transport deriving from the large
scale implementation of the pilot projects will be reversed. Additionally, the project
provided Transantiago-SE with data, information and tools that will enable them to



                                              16
further improve the system. Finally, it is unlikely that the improvements made to
Transantiago’s financial and payment system will be reversed, especially considering that
by ICR preparation Transantiago-SE was preparing the bidding documents to further
improve the system.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
58.    The Bank team involved in project preparation had a broad skill mix, including
various seasoned and experienced transport and urban transport specialists,
environmental and social specialists as well as safeguard and fiduciary specialists. The
preparation lasted approximately two years and was done together with the preparation of
the Santiago DPL. Frequent preparation missions were carried out and documented in the
Aide-Mémoires. The PAD is concise, but comprehensive in its coverage. It shows an in-
depth knowledge of the sector issues at the time of appraisal.
59.    The technical design of the operation benefited from the Bank’s involvement in
the GEF project and in the parallel Santiago DPL. The technical preparation was
thorough. The TORs for more than half of the activities were ready at the time of
appraisal. The Bank team also adequately handled the fiduciary and safeguard aspects.
60.    In hindsight, the project description was too rigid, leaving no space for changes in
the project activities. The results framework also had limitations as indicated in section
2.3 and not all risks were anticipated and mitigated (see paragraph 24). Consequently,
although the technical preparation was thoroughly carried out, due to these shortcomings,
Bank performance in terms of ensuring quality at entry was rated moderately satisfactory.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
61.     During project supervision, the Bank team maintained an adequate skill mix,
including transport, environmental and fiduciary specialists. The team had a high level of
involvement throughout the lifetime of project implementation. Supervision missions
took place twice a year. In addition, the team was in constant contact with the PCU to
provide international experience, good practice examples and technical advice, review
and comment on TORs and project reports, and help address implementation issues.
Because of the rigid description of the project activities and the great need for flexibility
in this operation, the team showed creativity to solve implementation problems and adapt
the project activities to changed local conditions.
62.    After the introduction of Transantiago, which almost completely stopped project
implementation during one year, Bank supervision was even more intensified through
monthly virtual supervisions via conference calls documented in detailed minutes. This
together with project restructuring brought project implementation under control again.
63.     During the last few years of project implementation, Bank supervision put a lot of
effort in defining the pilot projects and pushing for their implementation before project



                                            17
closure. Safeguard and fiduciary aspects throughout the project implementation period
were adequately taken into account.
64.     Because of the strong involvement in and constant support to this operation, the
performance of the Bank in supervising was considered satisfactory even if the team fell
short of fixing some of the shortcomings of the results framework during restructuring.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
65.    The Bank performance at entry was rated moderately satisfactory and the quality
of supervision was rated satisfactory. Therefore, the Bank’s overall performance was
considered moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
66.    The GoCH involved a broad range of sector agencies in project preparation,
assigned the necessary staff and resources, and put an enabling environment into place.
Hence, the GoCH’s contribution to project preparation was adequate.
67.     During project implementation, the GoCH provided more counterpart funds than
agreed upon and stuck to the institutional arrangements defined at appraisal. The GoCH
showed a high level of commitment in the creation of an efficient and high quality public
transport system and consequently to the achievement of the PDO. The commitment to
Transantiago grew even stronger after the launch of the new system, which had caused
enormous distress to users and risked government collapse. At that time, the GoCH did
everything possible to correct the launch mistakes and make Transantiago work. This
exclusive dedication to fix Transantiago’s problems affected the resource priorities within
Transantiago-SE, led to several changes of Transantiago-SE’s coordinator and key staff,
and heavily slowed down project implementation for at least a year. Once the initial
difficulties of Transantiago were overcome, the GoCH was determined to use the
restructured TAL as a tool to improve the public transport system and build capacity and
skills within Transantiago-SE.
Although the commitment of the GoCH to Transantiago was exemplary, especially after
the launch problems occurred, it temporarily and understandably distracted the attention
from the implementation of the project activities. Consequently, the overall government
performance was rated moderately satisfactory.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
68.    Transantiago-SE, SECTRA, MTT, MINVU, SERVIU, and SEREMITT-RM were
all involved in project preparation. Their technical knowledge and experience was
fundamental in preparing a technically robust and sound operation.
69.     The PCU had a small, well-qualified and highly committed team in charge of both
the TAL and the GEF projects. In technical matters, the PCU was supported by technical
staff from other areas of Transantiago-SE, SECTRA, and MTT. Together they did an
exemplary job in terms of preparing TOR and technical specification and supervising the


                                           18
studies and project activities. Study reports were thoroughly reviewed normally by at
least three people. The team provided excellent comments and high-quality technical
contributions. For most studies, they requested further analyses, which implied additional
supervision work. The team also provided valuable technical input to project
restructuring and was highly committed to the successive design of the pilot projects.
70.     In safeguard and fiduciary terms, the performance of the PCU was also
satisfactory, except for minor accounting errors, not implying any accountability issues,
and some shortcomings in procurement mainly due to the temporary unfamiliarity of the
team with Bank procurement rules and procedures after the sudden departure of the head
of the PCU in 2009.
71.     Given (i) the excellent technical performance of the project implementation
agencies; (ii) a largely satisfactory performance of the PCU in fiduciary and safeguard
terms; and (iii) the fact that most factors that slowed down project implementation
pointed out in section 2.2 were outside the direct control of the implementation agencies,
the performance of the implementation agencies was considered satisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
72.    Since the government’s performance was moderately satisfactory and the
performance of the implementation agencies was satisfactory, the overall Borrower
performance was rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
73.     The technical lessons stemming from the implementation of the urban transport
reform are outlined in detail in the ICR of the Santiago DPL. Other lessons relevant for
the design and implementation of future operations in Chile or similar operations
elsewhere are the following:
 In upper-middle-income countries, especially the ones with high technical
    capacity, Bank involvement in transport constitutes a true two-way investment.
    The Bank involvement in the Santiago urban transport reform not only provided the
    GoCH with international experiences and practices, the opportunity for a continuous
    policy dialogue, and some funds, but was also an exceptional learning experience for
    the Bank team. Accompanying the whole reform process, from its design to the
    solution of the launch problems, was highly instructive and the lessons learned from
    this experience are greatly valued among other Bank clients.
 In upper-middle-income countries, access to international experiences and
    flexibility are more valued than the Bank’s financial resources. To successfully
    implement a Bank project in a country like Chile, the Bank’s financial resources
    constitute little incentive and other elements must be in place. First, the project
    activities must continuously stay highly relevant for the current business needs of the
    client. This requires great flexibility in the formulation of the project activities and a
    willingness to make changes or drop them and start anew. It is especially important if
    a government change occurs in the early years of project implementation. Since the
    TAL supported a cutting edge reform in a fast changing environment and spanned
    over three government periods, this was particularly true. Flexibility is also required


                                            19
    in the application of Bank’s procurement rules and procedures to avoid imposing any
    additional burden. Moreover, upper-middle-income countries highly value
    international experiences and good practices. Therefore, the focus should be on
    activities where the Bank can bring global knowledge.
   It is difficult to design a good results framework for a TAL or an institutional
    strengthening component. This operation showed that it is difficult to design a good
    results framework for a TAL since institutional and capacity strengthening activities
    do not easily lend themselves for precise outcome indicators. It also confirmed that it
    remains a challenge to make all projects fit into the same results framework template,
    which is better suited to the structure of infrastructure investments and projects with
    precise physical outcomes. Consequently, particular focus needs to be placed on the
    formulation of the PDO and the design of the results framework during quality
    enhancement meetings not only for new projects, but also for project restructurings.
    Additionally, mid-term reviews should be systematically used to critically review the
    PDO and results framework and capacity strengthening should be provided.
   A TAL that accompanies a Development Policy Loan (DPL) needs careful
    planning. When the project was prepared, it was standard practice to have a TAL
    accompanying a DPL. Nowadays DPLs without TALs are accepted. That said, the
    operation confirmed that a TAL can be valuable to provide the Borrower with
    resources and technical assistance to accompany a reform program. In countries
    where Bank funds are additional to the general budget, it also constitutes an incentive
    for sectoral agencies, which do not receive funds from a DPL. However, time and
    careful planning are of essence. If the TAL and the DPL become effective together
    and considering that it may take a year to contract a consulting firm, the technical
    assistance will become available when the reform is on its way and the DPL is
    disbursed. In Santiago this was not sufficiently factored in. Several activities meant to
    prepare for the introduction of the reform were carried out by the GoCH and were
    later cancelled from the project. Additionally, once the launch problems occurred, a
    quick reaction was needed. With the Bank team in Washington and given our
    procurement rules and procedures, such quick response was difficult.
   Best practice study trips. The project-financed study trips for urban transport
    specialists to Bogota and Spain were highly successful for the following reasons: (i)
    thorough planning and organization of the trips (the project hired a consulting firm to
    do research on the areas of interest and plan and organize the trips in close
    collaboration with Transantiago-SE); (ii) participation of people that were doing the
    job and likely to stay in the organization; (iii) a requirement for participants to report
    back to their peers; (iv) excellent presentations to the peers with lots of photos, which
    were extremely interesting also for the Bank team; and (v) the consideration of
    several foreign practices, especially in the area of user information and attention, for
    replication in Santiago. This could potentially be a model for the Bank’s global
    knowledge capture efforts and the south to south exchanges.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
74.     The Borrower comments received on May 16 and 21, 2012 were incorporated in
the report.


                                            20
(b) Cofinanciers
75.    Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
76.    Not applicable.




                                      21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                           Estimate at Actual/Latest
                             Appraisal                                Percentage
                                          Restructuring Estimate (USD            Percentage of
        Components         Estimate (USD                                   of
                                              (USD         millions)             Restructuring
                              millions)                               Appraisal
                                            millions)
A. General Urban Transport       1.07          0.67          0.80         75%         120%
B. Public Transport              1.81          4.26          2.34        129%          55%
C. Environment                   0.23          0.12          0.43        188%         360%
D. Land Use                      0.89          0.63          0.57         64%          90%
 E. Social Aspects of            1.00          0.23          0.21         21%         92%
 Transport
F. Mitigation of Potential                                   0.00         0%            0%
                                 0.28          0.00
Impacts
G. Project Management            0.50          0.08          0.02         4%           27%
       Total Baseline Cost       5.78          5.99          4.37        76%          73%
 Physical Contingencies          0.00          0.00          0.00
 Price Contingencies             0.20          0.00          0.00         0%           0%
       Total Project Costs       5.98          5.99
                                                             4.37        73%          73%

Front-end fee PPF                  0.00            0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                 0.02           0.012          0.012          60%         100%
Total Financing Required           6.00            6.00           4.38          73%         73%

(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal / Actual/Latest
                                                                                Percentage of
                                          Type of   Restructuring   Estimate
          Source of Funds                                                        Appraisal /
                                        Cofinancing    Estimate      (USD
                                                                                Restructuring
                                                    (USD millions) millions)
Borrower                                                 1.20         2.01          168%
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                          4.80           2.37         49%
and Development
                                                          6.00           4.38         73%




                                             22
Annex 2. Outputs/Outcomes by Component
Component A. General Urban Transport
Cost: US$0.8 million, which corresponds to 120% of the cost estimation revised during project restructuring
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes                                   Actual or likely contribution to         Actual or likely contribution to
                                                                               original indicators, intermediate        revised/current indicators,
                                                                               outcomes and PDO                         intermediate outcomes and PDO
Current Subcomponent A.1. Carrying out an analysis and developing a socio-economic sub-model for SECTRA’s transport planning model
ESTRAUS.
This subcomponent was meant to analyze the socio-economic aspects Since the tool developed under the Since the tool developed under the
related to ESTRAUS and develop a tool to forecast the income, project was used to plan the extension of project was used to plan the
motorization rate, and household size for Metropolitan Santiago.               the Santiago metro system and to follow extension of the Santiago metro
                                                                               up on the 2006-2012 development plans system and follow up on the 2006-
The activities were carried out and the forecast tool was developed. This for the transport system in Metropolitan 2012 development plans for the
tool is crucial in transport planning to more precisely forecast travel demand Santiago, this subcomponent contributed transport system in Metropolitan
since the socioeconomic characteristics of passengers determine their travel to the original PDO of ―facilitating the Santiago, it seems reasonable to
behavior. SECTRA used the tool to plan the extension of the Santiago metro continuous planning of the urban assume that this subcomponent
system and to follow up on the 2006-2012 development plans for the transport reform program‖.                           contributed to the revised PDO of
transport system in Metropolitan Santiago.                                                                              ―increasing the efficiency and
                                                                                                                        sustainability of the urban transport
SECTRA will update the forecast tool with the results of the origin-                                                    system‖.
destination (O-D) survey ongoing at the time of ICR preparation.
                                                                                                                        Further contributions are still likely
                                                                                                                        because SECTRA will update the
                                                                                                                        tool and use it for future transport
                                                                                                                        planning in Metropolitan Santiago.
Current Subcomponent A.2. Designing of an institutional framework for Transantiago.
This project subcomponent envisaged to finance a study to analyze possible By supporting the preparation of a draft By supporting the preparation of a
institutional structures for Transantiago, propose a new institutional law on the creation of a Metropolitan draft law on the creation of a
framework, and devise an action plan to implement it.                          Transport Authority for Santiago and Metropolitan Transport Authority
                                                                               preparing the basis for organizational for Santiago and preparing the basis
Since the Borrower carried out an institutional analysis in-house, the project improvements within Transantiago-SE for organizational improvements
complemented this activity by supporting the organization of an (which took place) the project complied within Transantiago-SE, the project
international conference on Metropolitan Transport Authorities. Based on with the indicator target of ―preparing an complied with the indicator target of
the institutional analysis and the results of the conference, in 2007, the institutional          framework         for ―preparing       an      institutional
Borrower submitted a draft law on the creation of a Metropolitan Transport Transantiago‖.                               framework for Transantiago‖.




                                                      23
Authority for Santiago to Congress. At the time of ICR preparation, the
draft law was still pending. In this context it is necessary to point out that   These activities also helped to lay the    These activities also helped to lay
creating a Metropolitan Transport Authority is no easy process (there are        groundwork to achieve the original         the groundwork to achieve the
few success stories outside the developed world) since it affects different      intermediate          outcome        of    current intermediate outcome of
entities that have to give up individual powers for the benefit of the greater   ―institutionalizing Transantiago‖ as an    ―institutionalizing Transantiago‖ as
Metropolitan Transport Authority.                                                ―autonomous agency‖, which is likely to    an ―autonomous agency‖, which is
                                                                                 happen in the short to medium term.        likely to happen in the short to
Transantiago-SE commissioned a study to restructure MTT, to which                                                           medium term.
Transantiago-SE belongs as a temporary program. The study recommended            Finally, by strengthening Transantiago-
various changes to the structure and organization of MTT as well as the          SE as an entity in charge of the urban     Finally,      by       strengthening
transformation of Transantiago-SE into an autonomous agency with legal           transport system in Santiago, the          Transantiago-SE as an entity in
personality. The responsibilities of this new agency would be broader than       subcomponent also contributed to the       charge of the urban transport system
Transantiago-SE’s current responsibilities, including the role of                original PDO of ―implementing,             in Santiago, it is assumed that the
coordinating all public transport modes in Santiago. While the changes to        monitoring, evaluating and continuous      subcomponent contributed to the
MTT and the formalization of the new responsibilities of Transantiago-SE         planning of the urban transport reform‖.   ―efficiency and sustainability of the
can be made in the short run through a ministerial resolution, the                                                          Santiago’s urban transport system‖
transformation of Transantiago-SE into an autonomous agency will need to                                                    (revised PDO).
be made official through a law. At the time of ICR preparation, the GoCH
was carrying out the preparatory activities to implement these changes.

The project also supported an organizational study that reviewed the
internal organization, processes, systems and resources of Transantiago-SE,
defined a strategy, functions, staffing and other needs, and redesigned the
business processes. The results of the study were the basis for numerous
improvements in terms of processes, procedures, management control,
project management, system architecture, and human resources. For
instance, as a consequence of the study, the process to generate performance
indicators was fully automated. The revision of the internal processes also
helped to eliminate duplications, such as in the generation of operational
indicators, which were collected by the operations unit and an external
consultant. This strengthened Transantiago-SE as an entity in charge of the
urban transport system in Santiago.
Previous Subcomponent. Analyzing the impact of Transantiago on transport demand.
This subcomponent was expected to collect, through household panels, Although the activity was cancelled, the               Not      applicable    since  the
qualitative and quantitative data on mobility patterns and analyze the O-D survey ongoing at the time of ICR                subcomponent was cancelled during
changes in these patterns in the light of different urban transport projects preparation is expected to provide data        project restructuring.
and policies.                                                                and information on the impact of




                                                        24
                                                                             Transantiago on transport demand.
The study was cancelled and the respective resources were allocated to       Therefore, the PDO indicator target of
more urgent activities because at the time of project restructuring the      ―completing the survey to assess
Borrower was contracting an O-D survey with local resources. This O-D        Transantiago’s impact on transport
survey was expected to collect the same data and information as the study.   demand‖ is likely to be achieved before
The contracting of the O-D survey was delayed. At the time of ICR            the end of 2012.
preparation, the survey was still ongoing.
                                                                            This will also contribute to the original
                                                                            PDO of ―monitoring, evaluating and
                                                                            continuous planning of the urban
                                                                            transport reform‖.
Previous Subcomponent. Carrying out a road infrastructure conservation and management study.
This subcomponent was expected to result in the implementation of a Although the subcomponent was                       Not      applicable    since  the
planning system for urban road maintenance.                                 cancelled, Transantiago-SE created a        subcomponent was cancelled during
                                                                            simple pavement management system.          project restructuring.
The activity was cancelled because at the time of project restructuring the Therefore, Transantiago-SE complied
planning system was no longer a priority for the Borrower. The respective partially with the original indicator of
resources were allocated to more urgent activities.                         ―completing a road infrastructure
                                                                            management plan‖ and the original
With the preparation of the Infrastructure Master Plan for Public Transport intermediate outcome of ―improving
2011–2015, which places strong emphasis on road maintenance and traffic road infrastructure management‖.
management measures, Transantiago-SE created a simple information
system in Excel spreadsheet format with the pavement status and This also contributed at least somewhat
maintenance needs. The system is maintained with information received to the achievement of the original PDO
from bus operators, the municipalities and collected by Transantiago-SE of        ―monitoring,     evaluating    and
through field visits. The system is the basis for the decisions on pavement continuous planning of the urban
maintenance carried out by SERVIU.                                          transport reform‖.

Component B. Public Transport
Cost: US$2.34 million, which corresponds to 55% of the cost estimation revised during project restructuring
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes                                 Actual or likely contribution to      Actual or likely contribution to
                                                                             original indicators, intermediate     revised/current indicators,
                                                                             outcomes and PDO                      intermediate outcomes and PDO
Current Subcomponent B.1. Carrying out evaluations of Transantiago’s performance and identification of measures to improve the public transport
system (Previous Subcomponent: Estimation of public transport travel times and proposal for actions).
Originally this subcomponent was entitled “Estimation of public transport Transantiago-SE           implemented the By implementing all assessment




                                                     25
travel times and proposal for actions‖. It envisaged the proposal of low cost,      recommendations of the assessment by the        recommendations of the public
high-impact solutions to reduce total travel times, especially in critical routes   Brazilian experts. Some of the measures,        transport experts, the PDO
of the public transport network. During project restructuring, the scope of         such     as     the     operational/service     indicator target of ―implementing
this subcomponent was expanded to include assessments of other key                  improvements,       increased     network       at least one improvement
variables that influence the performance of Transantiago and propose                coverage and reduced transfers.                 measure      identified   in  the
improvement measures. This was necessary because the introduction of                                                                evaluation of Transantiago‖ has
Transantiago led to severe difficulties, which needed to be evaluated and           More service improvements are planned           been exceeded. Additionally,
resolved.                                                                           under the renegotiated contracts with the       more improvement measures are
                                                                                    bus concessionaires, which provide the          highly     likely     under   the
The revised subcomponent financed an assessment by internationally                  necessary flexibility to do so.                 renegotiated contracts with the
renowned Brazilian experts of the public transport system with the aim to                                                           bus concessionaries and as a
improve it. The main recommendations from this assessment pointed to (i)            Consequently,       this      subcomponent      result of the study on bus
fare increases, (ii) operational/service improvements, mainly to reduce the         contributed and is still likely to contribute   terminals and depots.
excess supply, short routes and transfers, (iii) changes in the contracts with      to the original intermediate outcome of
the bus operators to create incentives to provide good quality services, and        ―mitigating the negative effects of             The     improvement      measures
(iv) fare evasion reduction. The assessment also made it clear that                 Transantiago on low-income groups‖.             implemented, among others, led
Transantiago-SE lacked the tools to adequately monitor the service offer and        Public transport users belonging to the         to reduced transfers, increased
demand. As a follow up, Transantiago-SE, with their own funds, contracted           lowest income groups normally have no           network coverage, and improved
the consulting firm of the previously mentioned Brazilian experts to (i)            alternative to public transport. Therefore,     operating cost coverage.
develop a model to assess the profitability of the bus concessions, (ii)            they benefit most from reductions of
develop a transport model with data on load profiles, origins and destinations      transfers, increased coverage, and other        Therefore, the project contributed
obtained from ticket validation information, (iii) simulate the profitability of    service improvements.                           and is still likely to contribute to
the contract modifications negotiated with the bus operators, and (iv)                                                              the achievement of the revised
generate the data to plan new operational improvements.                             The conclusions of the Brazilian experts        PDO of ―increasing the efficiency
                                                                                    also led to the development of tools to         and sustainability of the urban
All the recommendations of the assessment were taken into account. (i)              monitor and evaluate the performance of         transport system‖.
Between 2010 and the time of ICR preparation, bus fares increased from              Transantiago. These tools were used to
CLP400 to CLP580, Metro fares during off peak hours from CLP400 to                  plan the service improvements. Therefore,
CLP600, and Metro fares during peak hours from CLP460 to CLP660.                    it seems reasonable to assume that the
These fare increases reduced the operating subsidies from 49% and 47% of            subcomponent contributed and is still
the system’s total costs in January 2009 and 2010, respectively, to 35% and         likely to contribute to the original PDO of
37% in January 2011 and 2012, respectively.                                         ―monitoring, evaluating and continuous
                                                                                    planning of the urban transport reform‖.
(ii) More than 70 operational improvements to reduce transfers and overall
travel times and to optimize public transport supply were identified. A few
of these improvements to increase coverage and reduce transfers were
implemented. For instance, the creation of the direct bus service 118 from




                                                         26
Maipú to La Florida in 2011 provides nearly 3 million annual passengers
with a direct origin-destination connection. The new direct bus service 125
from Lo Espejo y PAC to the center of Santiago decreased transfers on this
route by 38% annually. Additionally, the total length of bus routes increased
from 2,672 km in 2010 to 2,737 km in 2012 (by 2.4%), thus enhancing
network coverage. More operational improvements will be implemented in
the framework of the renegotiated contracts with the bus operators.

(iii) The contracts with bus operators were renegotiated and came into force
between March and June 2012. These contracts introduced incentives for
improved service quality (e.g. new remuneration criteria for bus operators,
which are 70% based on passengers transported and 30% based on km
provided, remuneration linked to service quality indicators and a bonus for
good service quality), gave operators a stronger role in the fight against fare
evasion, and provided the necessary flexibility to make additional
operational improvements (the results of these contract modifications are
expected to be noticeable on the ground in the beginning of the second part
of 2012 with the introduction of the new operational program and 800 new
buses). The information on the profitability of the contract modifications
with the bus operators was also fundamental in the contract renegotiations
since it enabled a reduction in the contract price.

(iv) Finally, many campaigns against fare evasion and more strict controls
were carried out. However, at the time of ICR preparation, this had not yet
led to reduced fare evasion.

The project also financed a study to evaluate the bus depot and terminal
infrastructure, its management, and prepare an integral management plan.
This study was concluded after project closure. It provided interesting
recommendations to create a stable and quality network of bus depots and
terminals and reduce the non-commercial kilometers of bus operators. At the
time of ICR preparation, Transantiago-SE set up a unit to deal with this
topic. This unit will be in charge of implementing the study
recommendations.
Current Subcomponent B.2. Improving Transantiago’s financial and fare management system through background studies and the design and
implementation of the new system.
This subcomponent was introduced during project restructuring and aimed at Not applicable since the subcomponent Transantiago-SE made   some




                                                        27
improving Transantiago’s fare and financial management system. This was          was      introduced   during   project   initial improvements to the fare
expected to be done through technical assistance to analyze the financial        restructuring.                           and financial management system
strength of operators and the design and implementation of a new financial                                                and at the time of ICR
management/payment system.                                                                                                preparation was about to contract
                                                                                                                          additional services to continue
The project financed a study to develop a methodology to assess the                                                       with these efforts. Despite this,
economic and financial health of the bus operators. The methodology                                                       the two indicators of ―having the
enables Transantiago-SE to anticipate a critical financial situation of one or                                            availability   of     real    time
more bus operators and avoid sudden interruptions in the public transport                                                 information      on        payment
supply due to an unexpected bankruptcy. This methodology was used to                                                      obligations/penalties‖         and
develop a model to assess the profitability of bus concessions, which as                                                  ―information on total revenues,
previously mentioned helped to reduce the contract price paid to bus                                                      expenses, deficits/ surpluses, etc.
operators.                                                                                                                on a daily basis‖ were not
                                                                                                                          complied with.
In the course of project implementation, Transantiago-SE contracted the
development of a technological platform for the organization as a whole.                                                  Nevertheless, the initial and
They decided to include the design and development of this fare and                                                       forthcoming improvements to the
financial management system within the scope of this contract. This was                                                   fare and financial management
expected to provide time and cost savings and facilitate system integration.                                              system and the information on the
A new financial management and payment system for feeder services was                                                     financial health of operators
developed. The development was brought to a halt because the contract                                                     contributed and are still likely to
renegotiations with the bus operators drastically changed the remuneration                                                contribute    to    the     current
formula and eliminated the distinction between feeder and trunk services.                                                 intermediate      outcome        of
                                                                                                                          ―improving its financial/fare
In the meantime, Transantiago-SE hired a consultant to make urgent short                                                  control and management system‖
term improvements to the fare and financial management system, which                                                      and the current PDO of
among others consisted of protocols for data import, automation of                                                        ―increasing the public transport
processes, and the traceability of manual data changes. Those improvements                                                system’s efficiency‖.
made the system more reliable and stable. At the time of ICR preparation,
Transantiago-SE was preparing the bidding documents for a second study
mainly to adapt the fare and financial management system to the new
payment mechanism in the renegotiated contracts with bus operators.

In the future, it is likely that the data regarding the system’s revenues and
expenses will become available in real time. According to the renegotiated
contracts, however, data on some of the penalties or the quality bonus is only
assessed at certain intervals. Therefore, it will not be possible to make the




                                                       28
information on the systems deficits/ surpluses and payment obligations
available in real time/on a daily basis.
Current Subcomponent B.3. Improving the quality and /or efficiency of public transport in Metropolitan Santiago by identifying international
experiences, designing pilot projects, implementing en evaluating them.
This subcomponent was introduced during project restructuring. It aimed at Not applicable since the subcomponent Both completed pilot projects
improving the quality and/or efficiency of public transport in Santiago by was            introduced during project showed potential for public
financing activities to identify international good practices in terms of public restructuring.                     transport quality and efficiency
transport improvements and apply some of them on a pilot project basis.                                             improvements. Therefore, the
                                                                                                                    indicator target of ―having at least
The project financed the identification of international good practice cases in                                     one evaluation showing a
public transport and two highly successful study trips of urban transport                                           potential for improvements‖ was
professionals from Santiago to Colombia and Spain. It also financed a visit                                         achieved.
of an expert on urban redevelopment from Bilbao to Santiago. These visits
revealed a wealth of experiences and good practices, which culminated in                                            Since the evaluations of both
the design of several pilot projects.                                                                               implemented        pilot     projects
                                                                                                                    showed potential for quality
Two pilot projects were completed and evaluated at the time of ICR                                                  and/or efficiency improvements
preparation. One pilot project tested different colored pavement surface                                            and Transantiago-SE was about
treatments for permanent bus lanes. It showed a 10% increase in bus speed                                           to replicate their results on a large
because private vehicles no longer invaded the bus lanes. It also helped to                                         scale, the intermediate outcome
select the most cost-effective pavement treatment product and application                                           of ―improving the quality and/or
procedure. At the time of ICR preparation, Transantiago-SE was preparing                                            efficiency of the public transport
the bidding documents to apply the colored pavement surface treatment on                                            system‖ was achieved in the case
50 km of permanent bus lanes. Transantiago-SE was also testing the                                                  of photovoltaic lighting and will
effectiveness of applying intermittent signs on the pavement to better signify                                      be further achieved with the large
bus lanes which only function during certain hours of the day.                                                      scale implementation of the
                                                                                                                    results of both pilots.
The second pilot project consisted of photovoltaic lighting installation at 263
bus stops. It showed that the equipment is resistant to vandalism and that                                          Similarly, this contributed and is
users highly value improved illumination (75.2% of the interviewees gave it                                         still likely to contribute to the
a rating of 6 or 7 on a scale from 1 to 7, with 7 being the best). The                                              revised PDO of ―increasing the
evaluation also found that for 72.3% of the interviewees, the quality of bus                                        public      transport       system’s
stops is extremely important and that illumination, the bus stop roof, security                                     efficiency‖. Further contributions
and safety are the main features to be considered. Photovoltaic lighting is                                         are likely when the remaining
considerably cheaper than conventional lighting if investment and operating                                         pilots are implemented and
costs are considered. In addition, the photovoltaic illumination at 263 bus                                         replicated.
stops leads to annual CO2 emission reductions of about 36.51 tons. At the




                                                    29
time of ICR preparation, Transantiago-SE signed a contract for the
installation of photovoltaic lighting at 1,000 additional bus stops.
Transantiago-SE also planned to pilot test the use of the excess energy from
the system to operate a real time information system on bus arrivals.

The third pilot project to test traffic signs with variable speed information in
school areas could not be carried out because Transantiago-SE received only
one offer in the procurement process for equipment and the respective
process had to be cancelled. There was not sufficient time left to launch the
procurement process again. Transantiago-SE will carry out the pilot project
with its own resources.

Similarly, the pilot project to test efficient driving was postponed because
the application of the colored pavement treatment and the control cameras in
bus corridors to be used for this test will only be ready in the second half of
2012.

Finally, also at the time of ICR preparation, a number of foreign practices,
especially in the area of user information and attention, were under
consideration to be replicated in Santiago.
Previous Subcomponent: Fare optimization in Transantiago during full operation.
This subcomponent envisaged to review the fare system after the Although                     the    subcomponent      was    Not    applicable      since  the
introduction of Transantiago. The study was eliminated from the project cancelled, Transantiago-SE adjusted its              subcomponent was cancelled
scope because the O-D data and information on travel patterns, essential to fare system to the new circumstances on          during project restructuring.
carry out the study as originally planned, was not expected to become the ground. Therefore, Transantiago-SE
available in time to complete the study before loan closure.                  contributed at least somewhat to the
                                                                              achievement of the original PDO of
Although the study was not carried out, immediately after the introduction of ―facilitating the continuous planning of the
the new public transport system, Transantiago-SE analyzed and revised the urban transport reform‖.
fare system on its own. As a first step to cope with the crisis, Transantiago
reduced the fare level, eliminated the separate charge portion for feeder
services, deactivated the automatic fare increase mechanism, and increased
the validity time window of tickets. This time window was reduced again
later. Fare increases were no longer automatically triggered as envisaged in
the bus service concessions. Instead, since 2009, an independent ad hoc
committee has been determining fare increases based on the cost of the
system and the available subsidies. The Bank team maintained a policy




                                                        30
dialogue on these issues and provided information on different fare systems,
especially the ones in Europe with weekly and monthly tickets.
Previous Subcomponent: Design of intermodal stations.
This subcomponent meant to prepare a design guide for small and medium          Although the activity was cancelled, the     Not    applicable      since  the
sized transfer stations. The activity was eliminated from the project scope     Borrower implemented small and medium        subcomponent was cancelled
because the Borrower implemented small and medium sized transfer stations       sized transfer stations and gained           during project restructuring.
before the guide was commissioned.                                              experience in doing so. These stations
                                                                                supported the implementation of the public
                                                                                transport system. Therefore, Transantiago-
                                                                                SE contributed at least somewhat to the
                                                                                achievement of the original PDO of
                                                                                ―facilitating the implementation of the
                                                                                urban transport reform‖.
Previous Subcomponent: Pilot testing of Transantiago’s information system.
This subcomponent envisaged to pilot test the design specifications for Although the activity was cancelled,                 Not    applicable      since  the
Transantiago’s graphic information system on the ground before Transantiago-SE tested the graphic                            subcomponent was cancelled
implementing it. When this project became effective, Transantiago-SE had information system and so supported the             during project restructuring.
already carried out the testing with local resources. This testing consisted of implementation of the public transport
observations through researcher participation and user surveys. Therefore, system.           Therefore,   Transantiago-SE
the activity envisaged under this subcomponent was eliminated from the contributed at least somewhat to the
project scope.                                                                  original PDO of ―facilitating the
                                                                                implementation of the urban transport
                                                                                reform‖.
Previous Subcomponent: Transantiago’s communications plans I and II, inclusive Transantiago Express.
This subcomponent envisaged to finance information campaigns and Transantiago-SE regularly carried out ad                    Not    applicable      since  the
material to inform the public about the new public transport system. It also campaigns, other information activities and     subcomponent was cancelled
envisaged the operation of a bus, called Transantiago Express, to carry out communications. They also devised                during project restructuring.
information campaigns.                                                          different tools to disseminate information
                                                                                about      the    system.    Consequently,
When the TAL became effective, Transantiago-SE had already contracted a Transantiago-SE complied with the
technology provider, who was in charge of the design and maintenance of ―original project indicator of carrying out
the system’s Web site, and other information activities. In addition, the                dissemination    campaign     for
Transantiago-SE created a service department, which carried out regular Transantiago‖.
communications activities, including street ad campaigns, information on
buses, in the media and on the Web site, information and complaints hotline There is no evidence that the original
(call center), information on bus services at bus stops, information centers, outcome of ―Transantiago’s users being
etc.                                                                            well informed about the system‖ was




                                                      31
                                                                               achieved and the information provision in
Because of Transantiago-SE’s strong focus on communications and                Transantiago still needs strengthening.
information activities, the resources of the TAL to finance information        However, given (i) the huge amount of
campaigns were no longer needed, and the activity was dropped from the         resources spent for information purposes,
project scope. As for Transantiago Express, this activity was no longer part   (ii) the number of information and
of the communications strategy of the administration, which took over in       communications campaigns and activities
2006.                                                                          carried out, (iii) the manifold information
                                                                               sources available, (iv) the statistics on their
Transantiago-SE’s budget for communications and information activities         use, and (v) considering that the project
over the last three years was approximately US$20 million a year. Under the    budgeted about US$1 million for
old public transport system no resources were allocated to inform public       communications and information activities
transport users.                                                               and under the old system no formal
                                                                               information and communications activities
In 2011, on a monthly basis, Transantiago-SE’s call center provided            took place, it seems reasonable to assume
information on routes, services, timetables and other service aspects to       that this outcome was at least partially
approximately 20,000 to 24,000 users. Between January 2011 and February        achieved.
2012, Transantiago-SE’s Web site with information on bus routes and
services received an average of 36,600 visitors.                               In the same way, it seems likely that these
                                                                               activities contributed to the original PDO
In November 2011, Transantiago-SE launched a service to provide                of ―facilitating the implementation and
information on bus arrival times at stops via cell phones                      continuous planning of the urban transport
(http://web.smsbus.cl/web/). Users have two free inquiries on bus arrival      reform‖.
times per day. In March 2012, the system received approximately 9,600
daily inquires relating to bus arrival times. The bidding for the study to
evaluate the progress and finalize the design of the system which provides
this service started in the framework of this TAL. The bidding was
subsequently cancelled because the 2010 earthquake in Chile shifted the
country’s priorities. The system was later implemented with local resources.

Component C. Environment
Cost: US$0.43 million, which corresponds to 360% of the cost estimation revised during project restructuring
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes                                                                 Actual or likely contribution
                                                                                    Actual or likely contribution to
                                                                                                             to revised/current indicators,
                                                                                    original indicators, intermediate
                                                                                    outcomes and PDO         intermediate outcomes and
                                                                                                             PDO
Current Subcomponent C.1. Monitoring of Transantiago’s impact on air quality in Santiago (Previous Subcomponent: Design of an information
system for the environmental monitoring of Transantiago).




                                                      32
This subcomponent was originally meant to finance the design of a system to               Although the project did not design a       The project complied with the
inform the public of Transantiago’s impact on air quality and noise. In 2007, after       full environmental monitoring system        PDO indicator of ―having
the new public transport system launch, Transantiago-SE had an immediate need to          for Transantiago as envisaged by the        information on the impact of
inform the public about the air quality benefits of Transantiago. Therefore, the          original PDO indicator, it devised          the      implementation         of
scope of this subcomponent was changed to air quality impact monitoring instead           several elements of such a monitoring       Transantiago on air quality
of designing a full environmental monitoring system.                                      system, i.e. the methodology used to        available‖.     Since         this
                                                                                          regularly     monitor     Transantiago’s    information was used to make
The project financed the design of a methodology and a first study to assess              impact on air quality and the Web site      the              environmental
Transantiago’s impact on the air quality in Santiago. This study showed that              to disseminate the results. In addition,    requirements      of        public
Transantiago was responsible for important decreases in particulate matter (PM),          the Borrower is likely to complement        transport    vehicles        more
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), and soot at street level11. In 2009, Transantiago-SE                the air quality monitoring system with      stringent, the subcomponent
financed the follow up study with their own resources. This study showed that the         a noise monitoring system in the near       contributed and is still likely to
positive impacts in terms of PM reductions continued to increase, while the               future. As such, the subcomponent           contribute to the system’s
benefits in terms of NOx emissions reduction went slightly down. Transantiago-SE          contributed and is still likely to          environmental sustainability,
created a Web page to disseminate this and other information on the environmental         contribute to the original PDO of           and hence the achievement of
performance of the system                                                                 ―facilitating monitoring and evaluating     the revised PDO.
(http://www.transportedesantiago.cl/LACIUDAD/MEDIOAMBIENTE/index.htm).                    of the urban transport reform as well as
The results of the study were also extensively divulgated in the press and other          its continuous planning‖.
publications, especially immediately after the launch of Transantiago. In addition,
the results of these studies were used to make the environmental requirements of
public transport vehicles more stringent. The requirements are set out in the
Environmental Prevention and Clean-Up Plan (Plan de Prevención y
Descontaminación Ambiental) and in the MTT emission norms revised in 200912.
They led to additional NOx and PM reductions. In 2011, Transantiago emitted 77.2
tons/year of PM and 4,211.7 tons/year of NOx, which was 19.9% less in PM and
1.7% less in NOx compared to 201013.

At the time of ICR preparation, Transantiago-SE was in the process of contracting



11
   For instance, in 2007, after the introduction of the new system, public transport reduced its ultrafine PM (PM2.5) by 30% and the NOx levels by 50%.
12
   ―Proyecto de Revisión, Reformulación y Actualización del Plan de Prevención y de Descontaminación Atmosférica para la Región Metropolitana (PPDA)‖, Comisión Nacional
del Medio Ambiente Región Metropolitana de Santiago, Santiago, January, 2009 and ―Normas de emisión de monóxido de carbono (CO), hidrocarburos totales (HCT),
hidrocarburos no metánicos (HCNM), metano (CH4), óxidos de nitrógeno (NOx) y material particulado (MP), para motores de buses de locomoción colectiva de la Ciudad de
Santiago‖, Subsecretaria de Transportes, published in the Official Gazette of March 13, 2002, modified with D.S. Nº 58/2003 (MSGP); D.S. 153/2005; and D.S. 42/2009.
13
   ―Programa de Seguimiento Ambiental: Emisiones Atmosféricas del Sistema de Transportes Publico de buses de Santiago año 2010-2011‖, Secretaria de Transportes (SECTRA)
del año 2011. Este documento responde al Seguimiento del Plan de Prevención y Descontaminación de Santiago (PPDA).




                                                         33
the third air quality impact assessment. Transantiago-SE was also planning to carry
out these studies in two to three year intervals in the future. Additionally, at that
time, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environment were preparing an
agreement to create noise maps for Santiago and other cities. For Santiago, this will
mean developing a methodology to single out Transantiago’s impact on noise
levels and to regular monitor it.

Component D. Land Use
Cost: US$0.57 million, which corresponds to 90% of the cost estimation revised during project restructuring
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes                                 Actual or likely contribution to original      Actual or likely contribution to
                                                                             indicators, intermediate outcomes and          revised/current indicators,
                                                                             PDO                                            intermediate outcomes and PDO
Current Subcomponent D.1. Updating the Land Use Model for Santiago (MUSSA)14 based on results of the 2001 O-D survey and the 2002 population
and housing census, and carrying out of a social assessment of three congestion pricing alternatives in the framework of Transantiago.
This subcomponent consisted of two parts. The first included an update of By developing a tool for strategic transport By developing a tool for strategic
MUSSA for Santiago together with the validation of its predictive capacity. and land use planning, the project laid the transport and land use planning, the
The second part, included simulations with MUSSA, ESTRAUS, and the basis for better urban transport planning. project laid the basis for better
Methodology for Vehicle Emission Calculation (MODEM) 15 to assess three Once MUSSA is improved, it also seems urban transport planning. Once
road pricing alternatives in the framework of Transantiago.                   reasonable to assume that it will ―facilitate MUSSA is improved, it also seems
                                                                              continuous planning of the urban transport reasonable to assume that it will
The planned activities were carried out. The simulation of three congestion system in the future‖ (original PDO).           contribute to a ―more efficient and
pricing alternatives showed that MUSSA needs further improvements to be                                                     sustainable urban transport system‖
used for strategic transport planning. This will be done once the ESTRAUS                                                   (revised PDO).
model has been updated with the results of the O-D survey.
Current Subcomponent D.2. Carrying out a study to update the graphic information system of the one-stop process (Ventanilla Única) information
system (Sistema de Información Ventanilla Única SIVU) and identify the needs to revise the legal framework to allow for the application of the Urban
Transport System Impact Evaluation System (Sistema de Evaluación de Impacto sobre el Sistema de Transporte Urbano SEISTU) and SIVU’s
functioning as means to mainstream procedures (Subcomponent entitled “Technological and legal support for the development of the “one-stop
process? (Ventanilla Única) project? in the PAD).
This subcomponent aimed at strengthening SEISTU by carrying out a study By providing the blueprint to improve By providing the blueprint to


14
   MUSSA is a software and a mathematical model, that represents the urban real estate market and allow planners to forecast and simulate its economic equilibrium under
different demographic, macroeconomic and regulatory scenarios. With MUSSA, the user can simulate the real estate market for these scenarios and make economic evaluations of
the impacts caused in the city. It can interact with most transport models as to assess the impacts of land use and transport projects and policies (www.mussa.cl).
15
   MODEM is a tool which uses inputs from ESTRAUS to simulate pollutant emissions from the transport system for Santiago as a whole and for single neighborhoods
(http://www.sectra.gob.cl/metodologias_y_herramientas_de_transporte/metodologia/transporte_medioambiente/estimacion_emisiones_fuentes_moviles_modem.html).




                                                           34
to improve its legal framework and information system. Only the title of the      SEISTU, the project laid the basis for         improve SEISTU, the project laid
activity was changed during project restructuring to align it with the title in   better urban transport planning. As such, it   the basis for better urban transport
the Loan Agreement.                                                               may ―facilitate continuous planning of the     planning.      As such, it may
                                                                                  urban transport system‖ (original PDO) in      contribute to a ―more efficient and
The study was carried out and the blueprint to strengthen SEISTU was              the future.                                    sustainable urban transport system‖
prepared. A working group was set up with representatives of the Ministry                                                        (revised PDO) in the future.
of Housing, MTT and SECTRA to implement a new legal framework for
SEISTU. The activities of the working group were suspended because the
revision of the legal framework was no longer a government priority at the
time of ICR preparation.
Previous Subcomponent: Analysis of and recommendations for the urban, architectonic, and operational planning in the influence area of transfer
stations.
This subcomponent aimed at promoting the concentration of activities and Since the Borrower did not carry out any Not            applicable      since    the
investments around transfer stations and recommending urban design activity to promote the concentration of subcomponent                    was     cancelled
standards to foster sustainable urban development. No activity was carried activities and investments around transfer during project restructuring.
out and, in the framework of project restructuring, the subcomponent was stations and the subcomponent was
eliminated from the project scope because it no longer was a priority for the cancelled, it did not contribute to the
government, which took over in 2006.                                          achievement of the original PDO.
Previous Subcomponent: Diagnostic of the transport and urban planning entities and design of instrument to facilitate inter-institutional coordination.
The objective of this subcomponent was to develop tools and procedures to Since the Borrower did not carry out any Not           applicable      since    the
facilitate transport and land-use planning coordination. No activity was activity to facilitate land-use and transport subcomponent         was     cancelled
carried out and, in the framework of project restructuring, the subcomponent planning       coordination     and     the during project restructuring.
was eliminated from the project scope because it no longer was a priority subcomponent           was    cancelled,   the
for the government, which took over in 2006.                                  respective indicator was not complied with
                                                                              and the subcomponent did not achieve the
                                                                              original expected outcome or PDO.

Component E. Social Aspects of Transport
Cost: US$0.21 million, which corresponds to 92% of the cost estimation revised during project restructuring
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes                                Actual or likely contribution to original Actual or likely contribution to
                                                                            indicators, intermediate outcomes and     revised/current indicators,
                                                                            PDO                                       intermediate outcomes and PDO
Current Subcomponent E.1. Assessment of the impact of Transantiago on street market vendors and preparation of a social mitigation program for
the benefit of such vendors (Previous Subcomponent: Social assessment of the impact of Transantiago on low-income groups in Metropolitan
Santiago).
This subcomponent was originally meant to assess the impact of The activity under this subcomponent was The revised indicator of ―designing




                                                         35
Transantiago on low-income groups in Metropolitan Santiago. The scope of         not carried out as originally planned.        an action plan to mitigate the
the subcomponent was redirected to one specific group of low-income              Instead of focusing on low-income users in    negative effects of Transantiago on
users, i.e. street market vendors. This change was justified by the fact that,   general, the activity only focused on one     street vendors‖ was complied with.
on the one hand, the new system considerably decreased the average fare          particular group of low-income people.        By using the results of the study to
level and so had large positive impacts on low-income users in monetary          Therefore, the respective indicator of        modify bus routes and bus services
terms. On the other hand, in several cases, the new bus routes and services      ―designing an action plan with mitigation     during the operating hours of street
passed in places where street markets were held and negatively affected          measures for low-income users‖ was only       markets, the expected outcome of
their operation. Therefore, Transantiago-SE needed an urgent tool to             partially complied with. By reducing the      ―mitigating the negative effects on
manage and mitigate these conflict situations with street markets.               negative impacts of Transantiago on street    street market vendors‖ was also
                                                                                 vendors, which are one specific group of      achieved. By the same token, it
The assessment carried out under this subcomponent showed the magnitude          low-income people, the subcomponent           seems reasonable to assume that
of the phenomenon in Santiago, where about 1,200 street markets take place       contributed somewhat to the expected          the subcomponent contributed to
on a weekly basis. The study produced a geo-referenced database with the         original outcome of ―mitigating the           the ―efficiency/sustainability of the
size, location, operating days/hours, and other characteristics of these street  negative effects of Transantiago on low-      system‖ (revised PDO).
markets. It prepared an action plan for the mitigation of conflict situations    income groups‖.
with the public transport system as well as recommendations of a more            Finally, the information gained from the
general nature, such as in hygienic, institutional and organizational terms.     study on street market vendors was used to
The results of the study were used to modify bus routes and bus services         make service changes and disseminate
during the operating hours of street markets. Knowing the location of street     information on the system. Therefore, it is
markets was also useful to identify the places to carry out public               reasonable     to    assume    that   this
information campaigns about Transantiago, especially concerning service          subcomponent       contributed   to    the
changes. Finally, at the time of ICR preparation, the Ministry of Economy        ―monitoring and evaluation as well as the
was drafting a law that used the results of the project financed study of        continuous planning of the urban transport
street market vendors as input. It is likely that this new law will lead to the  system‖ (original PDO).
implementation of measures to improve the general condition of street
market vendors, which were proposed in the study but are outside the
responsibility of Transantiago-SE.
Previous Subcomponent: Capacity building, business creation and reconversion of the transport system workers.
This subcomponent envisaged the design and implementation of a training The GoCH, on its own, trained and                      Not     applicable      since    the
program for public transport workers affected by the introduction of the reconverted displaced public transport                subcomponent       was     cancelled
new system.                                                                     workers and operators. As such, it             during project restructuring.
                                                                                contributed to the original PDO of
The Borrower, on its own, carried out a comprehensive program to assist, ―facilitating the implementation of the
train and reconvert displaced public transport workers and operators. It urban             transport reform‖.  The
trained 254 union leaders in the preparation of business plans, 217 public subcomponent was cancelled from the
transport workers who were over 55 years old in setting up a small business, project scope because it became
and 480 public transport workers who were between 40 and 54 years old superfluous.




                                                        36
and 129 public transport workers who were under 40 years old in acquiring
a new profession. The training courses included a living allowance for three
to four months, transport costs, reimbursements and other benefits. The
program also supported 427 drivers in obtaining and homologating driver
licenses for the new system and supported a program to help small bus
owners prepare a business plan. Finally, in addition to training and direct
benefits, the program provided information on access to general benefits,
such as unemployment benefits, health insurance, etc.

Since the GoCH had carried out a comprehensive reconversion program,
this project subcomponent became superfluous and was dropped from the
project scope.

Component F. Mitigation of Potential Adverse Impacts of Transport Infrastructure Works (component cancelled in the framework of project
restructuring)
Budgeted Cost: US$0.28 million (budget reallocated to other activities)
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes                               Actual or likely contribution to original Actual or likely contribution to
                                                                           indicators, intermediate outcomes and     revised/current indicators,
                                                                           PDO                                       intermediate outcomes and PDO
Previous Subcomponent F.1. Institutional capacity strengthening in the area of involuntary resettlements.
This subcomponent envisaged to strengthen the capacity of the entities The subcomponent was cancelled and did Not            applicable      since    the
responsible for resettlement, devise tools to facilitate the execution of not contribute to the achievement of the subcomponent         was     cancelled
involuntary resettlement, and lay the framework for a revised compensation original PDO.                             during project restructuring.
scheme.

The subcomponent was cancelled from the project scope because
institutional collaboration and strengthening in the area of resettlement was
carried out at local level in the Territorial Management Commission
(Comisión de Gestión Territorial). This Commission was comprised of all
actors involved in the construction of transport infrastructure in Santiago,
including SECTRA, the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), Transantiago-
SE, SEREMITT-RM, and MTT. Its aim was to harmonize MOP’s and
SERVIU’s expropriation procedures and strengthen these entities in their
implementation. This was not achieved, but SERVIU improved its
consultation procedures. A change in Chile’s resettlement laws was no
longer envisaged.




                                                       37
Previous Subcomponent F.2. Upgrading of the guidelines for environmental management plans for urban infrastructure works.
This subcomponent envisaged the revision and harmonization of the two Since the subcomponent was cancelled and Not          applicable    since    the
sets of environmental guidelines used for public infrastructure projects in the Borrower did not revise and harmonize subcomponent    was    cancelled
Chile. The subcomponent was cancelled from the project scope because it the two sets of environmental guidelines, during project restructuring.
was no longer a priority for the newly elected government, which took over the subcomponent did not contribute to the
in 2006.                                                                    achievement of the original PDO.

Component F. Project Management (component envisaged in the Loan Agreement but not in the PAD and therefore formalized during project
restructuring in the RPP to ensure consistency)
Cost: US$0.02 million, which corresponds to 27% of the cost estimation revised during project restructuring
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes                                 Actual or likely contribution to original   Actual or likely contribution to
                                                                             indicators, intermediate outcomes and       revised/current indicators,
                                                                             PDO                                         intermediate outcomes and PDO
Original/Revised Subcomponent F.1. Strengthening the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to carry out its obligations under the project through the
provision of technical assistance, training, operating costs, financing and equipment, as well as through project audits.
This component aimed at strengthening the PCU through training, technical Not applicable.                                Not applicable.
assistance, equipment, and operating costs. It also aimed at financing the
project audits.

The component financed the participation of Transantiago-SE staff in
procurement and financial management training courses. Project audits and
operating costs were financed by the Borrower.




                                                    38
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable.




                                    39
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
           Names                                   Title                Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Judy L. Baker                     Lead Economist                       WBIUR    Poverty Specialist
Antonio Leonardo Blasco           Sr Financial Management (FM)         LCSFM    FM Specialist
                                  Specialist
Margarita Rosa De Castro Illera   Consultant                           LCSUW    Safeguard Specialist
Elisabeth Goller                  Sr Transport. Specialist             LCSTR    Transport Specialist
Pierre Graftieaux                 Sr Transport. Specialist             AFTTR    Co-TTL
Jorge Rebelo                      Consultant                           LCSTR    TTL
Kenneth M. Gwilliam               Consultant                            ECSS5   Transport. Economist
Juan Lopez-Silva                  Consultant                           CESSF    Environmental
                                                                                Specialist
Gerhard Menckhoff                 Consultant                           LCSTR    Transport. Specialist
Slobodan Mitric                   Consultant                           SASDU    Transport. Specialist
Zeinab Partow                     Sr Country Economist                 AFTP1    Economist
Richard C. Podolske               Consultant                           ECSS5    Peer Reviewer
Jitendra J. Shah                  Lead Environmental Specialist        ECSS3    Peer Reviewer
Anna Wellenstein                  Country Program Coordinator          SACIA    Peer Reviewer
Andres Mac Gaul                   Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT    Procurement Specialist
Solange Van Veldhuizen            Program Assistant                    ECSHD    Program Assistant
Luz Mesa-Bartrina                 Senior Counsel                       LEGAF    Senior Counsel
Supervision/ICR
Natalia Cecilia Bavio             Financial Management Analyst         LCSFM    FM Specialist
Antonio Leonardo Blasco           Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM    FM Specialist
Flavio Chaves                     Natural Resources Mgmt. Specialist   AFTEN    Environmental
                                                                                Specialist
Oscar Emilio Chinea de Leon       Consultant                           LCC7C    Procurement Specialist
Elisabeth Goller                  Sr Transport. Specialist             LCSTR    TTL
Pierre Graftieaux                 Sr Transport. Specialist             AFTTR    Co-TTL
Jorge Rebelo                      Consultant                           LCSTR    TTL
Delia Beatriz Grisolia            Consultant                           LCSFM    FM Specialist
Ana Maria Grofsmacht              Procurement Specialist               LCSPT    Procurement Specialist
Juan Lopez-Silva                  Consultant                           CESSF    Environmental
                                                                                Specialist
Andres Mac Gaul                   Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT    Procurement Specialist
Alejandro Roger Solanot           Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM    FM Specialist
Francisco Rodriguez               Procurement Specialist               LCSPT    Procurement Specialist
Ana Lucia Jimenez                 Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM    FM Specialist
Raul Tolmos                       Environmental Specialist             LCSEN    Environmental
                                                                                Specialist
Paloma Lopez Diez                 Extended Term Temporary              LCSTR    Assistant
Heike Spichal                     Consultant                           LCSTR    Editor
Juan Carlos Munoz Abogabir        Consultant                           LCSTR    Consultant




                                                   40
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                USD Thousands (including
                                               No. of staff weeks
                                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05*                                                   9.13                             40.75
                                 Total:                   9.13                             40.75
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                    6.09                            32.70
  FY07                                                    7.44                            34.43
  FY08                                                   10.19                            43.17
  FY09                                                   17.17                            81.13
  FY10                                                   20.75                            86.41
  FY11                                                   15.09                            65.36
  FY12                                                   11.50**                          60.00**
                                 Total:                  88.23                           403.20
 * Project preparation started in FY04, but costs were not charged to this project (they were likely charged
to the parallel Santiago DPL).
**Estimates




                                                    41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No beneficiary survey was carried out.




                                         42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was held.




                                    43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                             Coordinación General de Transportes de Santiago


                      COMPLETION REPORT
    SANTIAGO URBAN TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (TAL)
                          N°7316-CH


                           BORROWER CONTRIBUTION

                  Coordinación General de Transportes de Santiago
                                  May 22, 2012


   1. INTRODUCTION

In tribute to the Bicentennial of Chile’s Independence, the Government of Chile
(GoCh) developed the Santiago Urban Transport Plan 2000 - 2010 (PTUS) to help
solve Santiago’s mobility problems. These problems derived from rapid economic
growth, increased car use, general mobility indicators. The Plan was meant to
achieve substantial improvements in the quality of life for Santiago’s citizens. In the
Plan the main activity was Program 1 ?Modernization and Integration of Public
Transport Services“, which ultimately culminated in the Transantiago Plan to
incorporate high levels of competitiveness, efficiency and quality in urban transport.

The GoCh requested financial and technical support from the World Bank to
implement Santiago’s public transport system (Transantiago) reform. The World
Bank approved the Santiago Urban Transport Technical Assistance Loan (TAL), which
aimed at supporting the GoCh in achieving a sustainable urban transport system for
Santiago. The TAL was accompanied by the Santiago Urban Transport Development
Policy Loan (DPL) to support policy and institutional reforms envisaged to put
Transantiago into full operation.

Due to the complexity and scope of the Transantiago Plan, it was implemented in two
stages. Between October 2005 and February 2007, Transition Phase 1 was
implemented. It marked the beginning of the operation of public transport services
through concession contracts, i.e. consisting of a corporation of transport operators
with the gradual integration of new buses with high efficiency standards. In Phase 2
of the reform scheme, which started in February 2007, new trunk and feeder
services and fare integration were introduced, among others.

Since the beginning of Phase 2, Transantiago has experienced constant adjustments
in order to become a high-quality transport system. In this way, the priorities of
Transantiago-SE changed toward activities with immediate impact on Transantiago-
SE’s management capacity and the quality and efficiency of the Transantiago Plan.


                                         44
Consequently, in 2009, it was essential to restructure the different project
components of the TAL. This was due to changes in the original needs and priorities.
Component restructuring was directed towards new areas, which continued to be a
priority until the end of the project.

   2. BACKGROUND OF TRANSANTIAGO AND THE ROLE OF THE TAL

More than five years after the implementation of Phase 2 of the Transantiago Plan, it
is possible to conclude that it was an unprecedented pioneering initiative in nature
and scope, which necessarily has a high level of risk, resulting in complex
implementation.

Today, it is possible to say with certainty that the new system is more efficient than
in was at the start and much better than the old system ("yellow buses"). In addition,
the system has achieved a level of stability and is on track to become one of the best
in the region.

For example, compared to the old system ("yellow buses"), bus accidents have been
reduced by more than 50 percent. Eighty percent of the current Transantiago fleet is
accessible to disabled people, which was not possible before. Air pollution caused by
public transport has been reduced by one third and travel times have decreased,
despite the increase in number of cars and congestion.

It is important to highlight that the system started with a little more than 200
services and has now evolved to more than 370 services. The system increased the
number of bus stops by 300 percent, 80 percent of which have shelters. The system
has more than 200 kilometers of exclusive bus lanes, corridors and bus-only lanes,
which is more than double compared to the previous system. Finally, coverage was
improved, reaching almost 12,000 kilometers, which is almost double of what was
initially offered.

In this process of implementation and constant system improvement, the TAL
provided a fundamental contribution both in its initial definition and in its role
supporting the system’s implementation.

Some activities were not implemented under the project as planned due to
unexpected circumstances. Despite this, at the moment of project closure, it became
evident that these activities were important for the system since they were carried
out with local funds. This happened for instance in the case of the information
campaigns and the design of the road infrastructure management mechanism.
Therefore, it is a good reflection that the initial project design was adequate.

As far as the support to the implementation of the Transantiago Plan is concerned,
on the one hand, project restructuring aimed at proving a better response to the
system’s changing priorities and Transantiago-SE’s organization. On the other hand,
the difficulties in the implementation of Transantiago severely affected the project,
almost paralyzing it. This meant limited implementation progress and a mismatch of
the initially defined components with the actual needs.

Moreover, the adjustments made during project restructuring paved the way for the
renegotiation of the concession contracts with bus operators. These renegotiations




                                        45
mark the first major milestone after the start of Phase 2 in 2007. The results of
these renegotiations have already started to become visible.

The new contracts aim exclusively to achieve a quality of service that would meet the
users’ needs. Changes are meant to be incorporated gradually, with the ultimate goal
of achieving a profound system transformation. These changes aim at eliminating the
fixed payments to bus operators which force them to stop at bus stops. It also aims
to improve frequency, as well as reduce and control fare evasion. Moreover, they will
decrease the number of transfers and protect workers, including the obligation to
pay US$1 million in the form of a performance bond for labor law violations.

   3. COMPLIANCE WITH THE OBJECTIVES AND MAIN ADVANCES IN THE
      DIFFERENT AREAS

This project is discussed in detail in the Implementation Completion and Results
Report (ICR) prepared by the World Bank. Therefore this section only describes the
main aspects regarding compliance with the stated objectives and the main
achievements.

The difference in the degree of achievement of the project objectives and its
implementation before and after the 2009 restructuring was mainly due to the
complex circumstances related to the implementation of the Transantiago Plan and
organizational priorities. This implied a temporary reassignment of the professional
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) staff with tasks that supported the implementation of
Transantiago. It also caused important changes in direction throughout the life of the
project. As a consequence, various activities already in progress were dropped. New
activities were incorporated, not all of which could be implemented due to the timing
of the project.

There were originally defined project objectives that remained unchanged after the
restructuring. One was the need to improve the institutional structure of
Transantiago, both fundamental and strategic. The improvement needs are both
internal to the organization and external, related to its role as planning agency of a
more sustainable urban transport in Santiago. While the project’s respective
indicator was complied with and the objective was achieved, there is clearly a long
way the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (MTT) has to go towards
building this institution.

Moreover, the objectives in terms of a communications strategy gained greater
importance towards the project end. This is reflected in the substantial investment of
local resources in its implementation, making it a central axis of the system. In part
this responds to the lessons learned from the system’s implementation, which now
enables Transantiago-SE to better define the target audience and the messages to
communicate.

Another key component refers to the transition from one system to another, which
involves significant social impact. A lot of effort was put into a locally funded
assistance program for workers and former transport operators to integrate them
into the new system or to help them convert to other activities.

As for the sustainability of the system, significant progress was made in the
methodology that measured the impact on air quality, which has been updated with




                                        46
local resources and has been given a permanent status through the Decontamination
Plan.

Finally, a major outstanding issue is the coordination between transport planning and
land use. This is recognized as a central focus in the overall improvement of cities.
However, since it involves actors outside Transantiago-SE and requires structural
reform, which goes beyond the transport portfolio, the related objective could not be
achieved within the framework of the project. The MTT, through the Unit for
Sustainable Transport and Urban Development, has launched a related activity aimed
at implementing this kind of improvements. A standard methodology for planning
and management with an integrated transport and urban development view was
developed, which can be replicated nationwide.

As for the objectives set during project restructuring, the most important ones relate
to the measures associated with the assessments of the Transantiago Plan. These
measures were best aligned with the project’s operational objective of supporting the
implementation of the system. The measures paved the ground for: (i) the
renegotiation of contracts with bus operators and in the future with the financial
service and technology provider (AFT); (ii) the foundations for a policy on
Transantiago’s bus terminals/depots and for legal improvements at the national
level; (iii) the implementation of pilot projects to make operational and service level
improvements, which have a high replication potential in Santiago and in the
surrounding regions; and (iv) the completion of the database for the future
construction of the financial system, which will only be possible once the new
contracts are fully operational.

Another more specific objective achieved under the project refers to interference of
transport routes and services with street markets. The study results on this subject
led to direct improvements in the system’s operation. The results enable constant
incorporation and adjustments to operational plans for bus services. In addition, the
results serve as input to the communications strategy of Transantiago. Finally, it is
the only study on the subject carried out by the public sector and is useful for other
sectors that deal with street markets.

In short, although not all objectives were fully achieved, especially in the initial stage
of the project, the experience was successful since (i) it provided great value to the
Transantiago Plan and (ii) contributions to achieve the most important objectives
have continued after project closure.

   4. BANK PERFORMANCE

Since the beginning of the project, the World Bank assigned a highly qualified team
to the project. This led to a robust project design. During project implementation,
the team provided support in order to adjust the project to new priorities.

In particular, the team in charge of the project showed a high level of commitment
and was proactive, which together with the efforts of the local team led to the
successful completion of the project. This was no easy task considering the difficult
implementation of Transantiago and obstacles encountered in local processes and
institutions.

Finally, the Bank team always showed their full support in the light of difficulties
faced by the public transport system reform, the low initial implementation rate and


                                          47
project adjustments as well as contingencies, such as the earthquake on February 27,
2010.

   5. BORROWER PERFORMANCE

It is important to note that due to several Bank projects under parallel
implementation (DPL, GEF and TAL) and the decision of Transantiago-SE to give
these projects continuity despite the difficulties in implementing the Transantiago
Plan, a permanent team (PCU) with highly qualified professionals in different areas
(transport, urban planning, social, environmental and financial) was created. These
professionals also managed to obtain thorough knowledge of World Bank rules. This
experience helped to solve the difficulties encountered during the execution of the
project in a timely, creative manner and to take advantage of the opportunities that
arose in the concrete context.

Additionally, the technical support provided by institutions outside the MTT, such as
SECTRA (before it became part of the MTT) and CONAMA, was fundamental. This
helped to maintain continuity throughout the project and after its completion.

   6. LESSONS LEARNED

A general lesson learned from this project experience is that while thorough technical
preparation before starting is highly relevant, the definition of the objectives and
indicators needs to be in line with what can reasonably be expected and must show a
certain degree of flexibility.

Since this was a project supporting the implementation of a reform as important and
comprehensive as the Transantiago Plan, the existing risks had to be rigorously
assessed. In light of this analysis, it was necessary to define flexible and feasible
objectives in order to adjust the project within reasonable periods of time to the
needs of the objectives it supported.

Also, the indicators associated with the objectives had to be very precise and
achievable within the scope of the project and the Implementation Agency
responsibilities. For example, on the one hand, using indicators which required the
support of actors outside the Implementing Agency was risky. On the other hand,
indicators which did not allow measuring the achievements in a concrete way left
much room for interpretation, which ultimately affected the evaluation of the project.

In operational terms, it was essential that the actors involved in the project
implementation process were adequately trained in the World Bank rules. It was also
important to ensure continuity of knowledge, making sure that at least one trained
professional always integrated the teams. In this context, it was important to
highlight the efforts related to the preparation of a more didactic and concise
operating manual, carried out in the framework of project restructuring. This
facilitated the work of the actors involved in the processes, who did not have the
required thorough knowledge.

In short, in terms of the project implementation, the following aspects are highlights:
     Project objectives need to be realistic with respect to the project scope and
       the responsibilities of the implementing agency, and must consider the local
       institutional reality.




                                         48
      Project objectives need to be flexible so that the project can be adjusted to
       meet its ultimate objective.
      Indicators need to be feasible in the light of the proposed activities, the
       project scope and the responsibilities of the implementing agency, and must
       consider the local institutional reality.
      Indicators need to be specific and measurable.
      The actors involved in project implementation must continually be trained in
       order to get a common understanding and thus accelerate administrative
       processes. In this particular case, training needs were provided to the PCU
       and the legal areas of Transantiago-SE, MTT and the Controller General’s
       Office (CGR).
      Continuity of knowledge and management of World Bank rules must be
       ensured among the actors involved in project implementation to avoid delays
       in processes due to changes in professional teams.

Finally, it is important to note that an important lesson learned in the
implementation of Transantiago-SE was the need for greater autonomy. This would
have avoided the duplication of administrative processes, which led to slower project
implementation and a high risk of outdated information regarding the immediate
needs.

   7. CONCLUSIONS

Given the previous consideration and in line with what the World Bank concluded in
its ICR, the Borrower agrees with a final project rating of “Moderately Satisfactory?.
This is mainly due to the implementation difficulties before project restructuring.

Despite the difficulties encountered during project implementation, it is essential to
highlight Transantiago-SE’s commitment in providing continuity to the project. In
addition, the Bank and PCU staff played a fundamental role, demonstrating a
committed and proactive approach in achieving the proposed objectives.

Finally, the value added in the Bank’s support of initiatives with the scope and
complexity of the Transantiago Plan should be highlighted. Especially since no
comparable external benchmarks exist to derive lessons, the knowledge and
expertise of the Bank are critical.

   8. FINAL COMMENTS

In 2012, Transantiago faces the consolidation of its new regulatory and contractual
structure. In June, the CGR is expected to formalize the seven concession contracts
with bus operators. Additionally, the responsibility to provide certain services will be
transferred from some of the current operators to other operators and the thousand
oldest buses will be replaced with new ones.

A complementary and vital step is the renegotiation of the current contractual
relationship between the AFT, the MTT and between the AFT and other actors in the
Transantiago system. The situation is expected to be solved in general terms in July
2012. This should lead to the first signs of improvements for users and the system in
the last quarter of 2012.




                                         49
Consequently, 2013 will start with new contractual arrangements for Transantiago,
leading to a healthy bus industry and the ability to address the continuing challenges
of the city.

In 2013 the objective is to continue the pursuit of continuous improvements to the
services provided by the bus operators. In addition, the new integrated vision of a
public transport system will be approached in full, especially the information and
infrastructure management. This new challenge will focus on a harmonious vision of
public transport, the city and its approach from the angle of overall user experience.
This requires, for example, a new relationship with Metro, the structural backbone of
the system. It also requires collaboration with Metrotren, the interurban train
operator, to create the first interurban train service with fare and operational
integration within Transantiago.

This change process with tangible improvements in service quality will also be
accompanied by the consolidation of the organization that regulates, manages and
monitors the system, i.e. Transantiago-SE or Coordination of Transantiago
(Coordinación Transantiago). Discussions are ongoing regarding the need to create
an entity responsible for public transport in Santiago. It is expected that a proposal
to create a new institutional framework will be ready by 2013 and under
implementation in 2014.




                                        50
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

There were no cofinanciers or other partners.




                                          51
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


IBRD and IFC Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Chile for the Period
2011-2016, January 11, 2011

Project Appraisal Document and Aide Memoires of preparation and supervision missions
in IRIS

Santiago Urban Transport Project Programmatic Development Loan ICR

GEF Sustainable Transport and Air Quality for Santiago Project ICR

Programa de Gobierno para el Cambio, el Futuro y la Esperanza, Chile 2010 – 2014.

Cuenta Pública ―Cumpliendo con las Personas, Cumpliendo con la Metas‖, Ministro de
Transporte y Telecomunicaciones Pedro Pablo Errázuriz Domínguez, 2011.

―Proyecto de Revisión, Reformulación y Actualización del Plan de Prevención y de
Descontaminación Atmosférica para la Región Metropolitana (PPDA)‖, Comisión
Nacional del Medio Ambiente Región Metropolitana de Santiago, Santiago, January,
2009

 ―Normas de emisión de monóxido de carbono (CO), hidrocarburos totales (HCT),
hidrocarburos no metánicos (HCNM), metano (CH4), óxidos de nitrógeno (NOx) y
material particulado (MP), para motores de buses de locomoción colectiva de la Ciudad
de Santiago‖, Subsecretaria de Transportes, published in the Official Gazette of March
13, 2002, modified with D.S. Nº 58/2003 (MSGP); D.S. 153/2005; and D.S. 42/2009

Pilot on efficient lighting of bus stops, User perception survey, Service Department of
Transantiago-SE, April 2012.

Informe Financiero de Transantiago, Coordinación de Transportes de Santiago, Period
June 2007 – January 2012.

―Evaluación de infraestructura existente de terminales y depósitos de buses de
locomoción colectiva urbana de Santiago y Plan de Mejoramiento Integral‖, Study
Conclusions, March 2012.

―Programa de Seguimiento Ambiental: Emisiones Atmosféricas del Sistema de
Transportes Publico de buses de Santiago año 2010-2011‖, Secretaria de Transportes
(SECTRA), 2011.




                                         52
Annex 10. Status of Transantiago at the Time of ICR Preparation


                         Transantiago, five years after its launch
           Report prepared by Juan Carlos Munoz for the World Bank in 2012
1. Introduction
In this document we review the current state of Transantiago, the fully integrated public
transport system covering the whole of Santiago in Chile. The system is comprised of bus
services provided by private operators and a Metro system owned by the government.
Bus services were originally structured as a trunk and feeder network in which nine
feeder operators enjoyed the exclusive provision of services in an area of the city, while
five trunk operators enjoyed the exclusive provision of services in a set of corridors.
A private consortium led by the most important banks in Santiago and a technological
operator compose the Technological and Financial Administrator of Transantiago (AFT)
which provides the magnetic payment card, its charging network and the card validating
devices in all of the buses, and is responsible for the management of the funds gathered
through the fares.
The system captured worldwide attention after its premature implementation in February
2007, before most of the infrastructural and systems conditions required by its designers
were in operation. For a thorough revision of the design and implementation of
Transantiago we refer to Munoz et al, 2008.
Section 2 of this document summarizes the current state of Transantiago focusing on the
evolution of the services offered, the infrastructure available, performance indicators, the
main features of the contracts between the authority and the operator’s and the financial
situation of the system. Sections 3 and 4 present the main achievements and challenges of
the plan at present.
2. Current state of Transantiago
2.1 Public transport services
In this section we focus on the characteristics of the services offered, the state of the fleet
and the total number of kilometers driven. We distinguish bus services from Metro
services.
2.1.1 Buses
The tendering documents of Transantiago considered an operational fleet of only 4,600
buses. However, before the inauguration of Transantiago the government requested 1,000
extra buses, so the initial operational plans considered a fleet of 5,600 buses. The system
started with 1,375 new buses that had already been operating for the pre-launch or
transition phase. Transantiago’s inauguration in midst of the 2007 summer holidays was
extremely rough, with notorious lack of bus services citywide and unacceptably low
levels of service to users. The actual number of initially operating buses was clearly
insufficient—so during the first year of Transantiago the authorities focused on
significantly increasing the effective supply of bus services in the city. Table 1 displays


                                             53
the kilometers driven, the number of registered fleet, and number of services offered by
the end of years 2008 to 2011, while Figure 1 displays the evolution of the monthly
commercial kilometers offered in 2009-2011.
                             Year                  Commercial Number of Services
                                                      km        Fleet
                                                    (million)
                            2007
                                                         371.1            4,489            223
                     (starting Feb 10)
                            2008                         481.4            6,399            322
                            2009                         487.2            6,572            334
                            2010                         512.4            6,564            357
                            2011                         483.0            6,165            370
               Table 1: Evolution of public transport commercial kilometers, number of fleet
               and services after Transantiago (the fleet and services reported for 2007 reflect
               figures at the time Transantiago was inaugurated; they increased significantly
               later during that year). (Source: Transantiago)



 48,000,000

 46,000,000

 44,000,000

 42,000,000

 40,000,000

 38,000,000

 36,000,000

 34,000,000

 32,000,000

 30,000,000
              Aug/09




              Aug/10

              Oct/10




              Aug/11
               Jan/09

              Mar/09




               Jan/10




               Jan/11
              Jun/09



              Oct/09




              Mar/10


              Jun/10




              Mar/11


              Jun/11



              Oct/11
              May/09




              May/10




              May/11
              Apr/09
              Feb/09




                Jul/09




              Apr/10




              Apr/11
              Sep/09


              Dec/09

              Feb/10




                Jul/10



              Nov/10
              Dec/10

              Feb/11




                Jul/11
              Nov/09




              Sep/10




              Sep/11

              Nov/11
              Dec/11




          Figure 1. Evolution of the monthly kilometers offered from January 2009 to December 2011

Figure 1 shows an increasing trend of the kilometers offered, peaking in March 2010, the
month when the national government changed office. During most of 2010, the
government made an effort to reduce the total kilometers offered as a way to reduce the
needed subsidy to finance the system.
The current fleet of more than 6,000 buses has been in permanent renewal to gradually
displace the old style buses (actually converted lorries) inherited from the previous
system. During 2009 and 2010 a total of 1,151 new buses joined the system. By the end
of 2013, Transantiago plans to replace 1,108 extra buses. Table 2 shows the fleet
composition in terms of 160-passenger articulated buses, standard 95-passenger buses


                                                    54
and the rest of the old fleet with capacities ranging between 50 and 80 passengers (these
capacities assume a rather high 6 passengers/m2 density). The aggregated capacity of the
fleet in terms of seats/standings and the average age of the fleet are also displayed. Table
2 shows that the authority has reduced the emphasis on adding large articulated buses to
the new fleet, focusing more in renewing standard medium-sized buses.. The 2011
capacity drop is due to the extension of the Metro network which triggered a reduction in
the number of buses operating in the vicinity of the new lines.
                                                                                              Avg.
           Year         Fleet      Articulated Standard             Rest        Capacity      Age
           2008         6,399         23%        20%                58%         607,178       8.4
           2009         6,572         22%        26%                52%         626,527       7.4
           2010         6,564         22%        40%                38%         650,003       5.9
           2011         6,165         24%        45%                31%         626,647       5.3
           2012         6,167         23%        46%                31%         627,695       5.2
         Table 2: Distribution of bus types and their aggregated capacity in Transantiago (Source:
         Registro Nacional de Transporte Público)

The registered fleet has better environmental standards. Figure 2 shows the evolution of
the percentage of buses satisfying different (and progressively more stringent)
international environmental standards. By May 2012, 92% of the fleet was Euro III, of
which one third was also equipped with a Diesel Particulate Filter (DFP in Spanish).
       100%                          2%        5%
        90%
                  32%                                   31%      33%       34%
        80%
                           53%
        70%
                                     65%
        60%                                   68%                                       EURO III + DFP

        50%       38%                                                                   EURO III
        40%                                             59%                             EURO II
                                                                 58%       58%
        30%                37%                                                          EURO I
        20%                          30%
                  30%                         27%
        10%
                           10%                          10%       9%       8%
          0%                         3%        1%
                 2006      2007     2008      2009     2010      2011      2012

         Figure 2: Evolution of bus technological standards after Transantiago (Source: Registro Nacional
         de Transporte Público)

Until recently, the newly added services kept most of the original trunk and feeder
structure under which the system was initially organized. These new services aimed at
reducing the average number of transfers per trip by joining and extending some services,
and relaxing the stringent exclusivity of feeder zones and corridors. However, this
flexibility could not be extended as much as desired since the original contracts were
quite rigid.



                                                     55
Although the newly signed contracts do not change the services operating in Transantiago,
they eliminate the trunk and feeder logic by not distinguishing between both types of
services. Thus, it is expected that this trunk and feeder structure will become more
blurred in the future. The new contracts with bus operators shift from giving them
exclusive to preferential use of streets. With the recently negotiated contracts, some
previously trunk and feeder concessions have merged giving birth to larger firms whose
services are a mixture of feeder and trunk services. In addition, the system has shifted its
image from clear geographic areas (based on exclusive feeder concessions or trunk
operations over exclusive corridors) to assigning each operator of these new sets of
services its own brand recognition.
When Transantiago started, a significant issue was the number of times that the operators
did not provide the services that were committed or planned. A key change came when
the authority decided in mid-2007 to link payment of firms to the buses actually seen
operating in the city. As noted in Figure 3, this change had a dramatic impact increasing
the operating fleet from 4,600 to 5,800 buses in only three months.




             Figure 3: Number of operating buses in Transantiago from July to December 2007
             (Source: Beltran et al., 2011)

The efforts of the authority to force operators to effectively comply with the operational
program they prepared became more and more sophisticated. Indeed, several new
indicators were linked to the operators’ revenues. We now present the evolution of three
of them.
   a) ICPH: this indicator measures the number of seats/standing places offered by an
      operator aggregated for all its services. It is calculated as the number of buses
      effectively operating every half an hour multiplied by their seating/standing
      capacity, divided by the theoretical figure indicated by the operational program.
      Figure 4 displays the evolution of this indicator once it was incorporated into the
      contracts.




                                                56
                     Figure 4. Evolution of the ICPH (Source: Beltran et al., 2011)

The indicator presents the fraction of buses expected versus actual buses operating during
a 30-minute period. However, the indicator did not capture if vehicles operated during the
full 30 minutes or only a fraction of the time. Thus, Transantiago modified the indicator
to capture the fraction of all kilometers actually driven from those expected during the
30-minute period. This new indicator, called ICPKH, was computed for every service in
every direction and was linked to the revenues received by operators. The average
percentage obtained with this indicator directly affected the revenues obtained by an
operator.
   b) ICF: this indicator measures the frequency effectively fulfilled by each service in
      each direction. It is calculated as the percentage of programmed bus trips
      effectively offered. Figure 5 displays the evolution of this indicator once it was
      incorporated into the contracts.




                      Figure 5. Evolution of the ICF (Source: Beltran et al., 2011)

   c) ICR: this indicator measures the regularity of the services offered by each service
      in each direction. The index is based on the coefficient of variation (CV) of the


                                                 57
       observed headways (unfortunately measured only at the dispatching terminal).
       The CV is transformed into an index of 0 (minimum) when the CV exceeds 1.5
       (this is indicative that the headway variability is huge), and 1 (maximum) when
       the CV is lower than 0.4 (meaning little variability across bus headways). For
       values of CV between 0.4 and 1.5, the ICR decreases linearly until 0. Figure 6
       displays the evolution of this indicator once it was incorporated into the contracts.




                      Figure 6. Evolution of the ICR (Source: Beltran et al., 2011)

As can be observed from the three graphs, the three indicators have impacted the
performance of the operators. However, in the case of ICR, this impact has been
considerably weaker. Indeed, reliability is still one of the main complaints of
Transantiago users. In addition, even though these indicators succeeded in getting the
operators to comply with the operational program, they also induced some undesirable
behaviors such as having drivers not stopping at certain stops simply to improve the
performance indicators that were part of the contracts. The authority expects that the
incentives added in new contracts (discussed later in this document) will address these
issues effectively.
2.1.2 Metro
After Transantiago was launched, Metro adapted its services to improve the level of
service offered to users. We must recall that Metro almost doubled its ridership when
Transantiago started due to several reasons: i) fare integration allowed users to take
Metro without paying a second fare, ii) information on the new bus system was
inadequate, so users opted to take Metro as the more familiar service, iii) the bus system
was providing a very poor level of service, and iv) the card payment network lacked
coverage, so Metro appeared to be the only place to load fare cards. Since 2007 the fleet
of train cars and the kilometers driven has grown as shown in Table 3. Also, a very
innovative skip-stop operation was implemented in three of the four lines during peak
periods. This operation allows the system to provide a higher level of service to
passengers, increases the capacity of the system by approximately 10% and reduces the
operational costs per kilometer. Finally, since Transantiago started, Metro has extended
its operations starting earlier and ending later in the day compared to before 2007. An
order for 108 extra train cars will start arriving by mid 2012 and should significantly


                                                 58
improve the level of comfort experienced by users during peak periods. These trains will
also be equipped with air conditioning which the current fleet lacks.
                               2005        2006         2007       2008         2009         2010        2011
 Network length (km)           66.1        85.1         85.1       85.1         85.1         94.9        103.5
 Number of stations              78          92           92         92           93          101         108
 Number of train cars           636         666          751        751          751          967         967
 Car kilometers
                      51,782 71,192 94,199 105,346 106,001 119,064 131,143
 driven
 Annual ridership
                       267    331    601     642     608     621     640
 (million passengers)
    Table 3: Evolution of the characteristics of Metro network, services and ridership (Source: Transantiago and
    Metro)

2.2 Infrastructure
In this section we focus on the characteristics of infrastructure available for operating
Transantiago. Again, we distinguish between infrastructure for buses and Metro.
2.2.1 Buses
Transantiago was inaugurated with almost no specialized infrastructure for buses. This
lack of infrastructure had a very significant impact in increased travel times, reduced bus
productivity and capacity, increased waiting times, and eliminated the potential
advantages of a trunk and feeder system. It also damaged reliability which turned out to
be one of the main complaints of bus users. Since the inauguration of Transantiago the
number of segregated bus corridors has grown steadily as shown in Table 4. However,
the current network of high standard rolling infrastructure covers only a small fraction of
the citywide trunk network of Transantiago that is more than 1,500 kilometers long.
                                   Segregated           Bus only        Exclusive streets
                    Year
                                    corridors            lanes           (peak hrs only)
                    2007               13                  68                   8
                    2008               16                  77                  31
                    2009               65                 101                  31
                    2010               90                 101                  31
                    2011               90                 101                  31
                   Table 4: Evolution of the infrastructure for buses (kms) (Source:
                   Transantiago)

The implementation of segregated corridors has been slow partly because local residents
and authorities (i.e. majors) oppose them. They perceive bus corridors delay expectations
of having a Metro line in their neighborhoods and fear significant property expropriations.
On the other hand, authorities argue that segregated corridors can only be built along
wide avenues. Thus, they have designated several lanes that were previously assigned for
mixed traffic as ―Bus only‖. The number of these lanes grew in the first two years of
Transantiago as shown in Table 4. However, these lanes have been quite ineffective since
they are too often used by private vehicles and not enough attention has been paid in
terms of priority for buses at their intersections. Twice the authority has implemented a


                                                      59
kind of automatic enforcement through photographic evidence to prevent cars from
invading bus ways, with very good results in terms of bus speed improvements. Some bus
lanes have also been painted red to make them visually clearer. However, these efforts
have been quite focused on only the most utilized corridors. Finally, Table 4 also shows
the evolution of exclusive streets for buses implemented during 2008 (these are streets
devoted exclusively for buses during peak periods only), mainly in the central business
district. Its network has not grown since then.
According to Muñoz (2012), the average speed offered by the various types of corridor
infrastructure vary significantly. Table 5 shows the average speed observed in the
morning rush hour for downtown headed services using different corridor types. The
average feeder speed is approximately 17 kilometers/hour, but varies significantly among
different areas of Santiago reaching only 11 kilometers/hour in some other zones.
                                                                  Bus
                                   Segregated corridors                     Mixed
                                                                  only
                                   and exclusive streets                    traffic
                                                                 lanes
                Speed (km/hr)                25.88               17.21       15.09
                  Table 5: Average speed for downtown-headed services using different
                  infrastructure during the morning rush hour (Source: Muñoz, 2012)

The authority has also focused on providing adequate bus stops for the system. In 2007,
Transantiago had only 3,013 roofed stops that had grown to 8,580 by 2010 (from a total
of approximately 11,000 stops). Recently, Transantiago installed solar lighting at about
300 stops in the suburbs and signed a contract for an additional 1,000 of these stops.
Additionally, 129 of the stops operate with off-bus payment areas (stations) during peak
periods. Even though the off-bus payment areas are quite effective in terms of speeding
up dwell times, reducing fare evasion and loading buses homogeneously, they were
designed to play a transient role while a more definitive solution was underway. After
five years, the more definitive stations have not yet been installed, and the current ones
contribute very little to the expected harmony between the public transport infrastructure
and the urban space.
The 2011-2015 Infrastructure Master plan for Transantiago establishes that around
US$760 million will be invested in building 86 kilometers of extra bus corridors and
improving 16 kilometers of mixed traffic ways with a high proportion of buses. It also
includes US$210 million to improve the quality the stops and of the stations with off-bus
payment systems, and US$25 million to install 700 cameras for bus priority enforcement.
2.2.2 Metro
Two extensions of existing metro lines have been inaugurated since 2007. Like the rest of
the network, these run at high frequency (intervals of less than 3 minutes during peak
periods) and quite reliably. Thus, they were very well received, even though they did not
attract as many new passengers as planned. As should be expected, Metro is clearly
experiencing a decreasing marginal ridership contribution from new lines added to the
system. However, new lines have also contributed to improving comfort by reducing the
average density inside trains in some critical areas. Table 3 shows the evolution of the
network (kilometers and stations), the size of the fleet (train cars), the annual kilometers



                                                60
driven and the annual ridership. Last year two new lines were announced to be
inaugurated during 2016-2018, adding 37 extra kilometers to the network.
It is interesting to notice that Metro demand during the second year of Transantiago was
particularly high even though the network did not grow. Since demand later dropped to
its 2007 level, this rise and drop could be associated to the poor level of service offered
by the bus system at the beginning of Transantiago, and the lag taken for the bus demand
to recover, and for users to recognize it. Also, it could be associated to the difference in
Metro and bus fares starting in early 2009 as shown in Figure 8.
2.3 Demand
Users of Transantiago tap in to enter a bus or the Metro network, but are not required to
tap out neither in buses nor Metro (transfers within the Metro network are not registered).
The fare system allows passengers to take up to three legs to finish their trips (i.e. two
transfers at the most). The duration between the first and last taps cannot exceed two
hours. So, during two hours, passengers may make up to three single-leg trips paying a
single fare as long as they do not take Metro more than once or repeat the same bus line.
Thus, the ridership is estimated as the number of passengers entering the system paying
their fare (even if they make more than one trip). The public transit ridership (excluding
shared taxis) in Santiago dropped after Transantiago’s inauguration, by approximately
10% below the projected demand for 2007. On one hand this is due to the difficult
beginning of Transantiago, but it is also not unexpected as the country has continued
growing strongly and the car fleet in Santiago has increased by one third in five years as
shown in Table 6.
                                                           Cars and
                           Year           Cars
                                                          motorbikes
                          2006              918               943
                          2007              972              1013
                          2008             1027              1081
                          2009             1055              1113
                          2010             1128              1186
                          2011             1222              1285
                      Table 6: Car fleet Metropolitan Region (surrounding
                      Santiago) in thousands (Source: National Institute of
                      Statistics, INE)

Figure 7 shows the evolution of the monthly validated trip legs in bus feeder, bus trunk
and Metro services, showing a total number around 150 million trip legs. The graph also
shows the ridership that can be inferred from this information which, as is based on the
card validation of users, neglects the multiple trips that can be made within two hours and
the growing number of trips that evade the fare. High fare evasion has been observed in
bus services in several parts of the city (fare evasion in Metro is almost nonexistent) and
it has become alarmingly high according to some studies. The red curve of Figure 6
corresponds to the estimated percentage of passengers evading the bus fare which has
recently gone over 20%. The reasons for this evasion are manifold. Some people simply
do not want to pay (fares have increased by 50% in the last three years and for a
significant fraction of the population paying the fares twice on every workday represents
around 15% of their income), others enter through the back door as a convenient way to


                                              61
enter a densely loaded bus (validators are only located at the front door), while others
may not have a facility nearby to charge their cards (the network for charging the
payment card is still insufficient in some areas of the city, particularly during some
periods). Notice that in these last two cases, evaders may pay their fare in a subsequent or
previous leg of the same trip allowing Transantiago to receive its income, but not the
evaded operator. Evasion has become a regular habit in certain areas, as the probability
of getting a fine is still so low that it pays off to evade if a user wants to minimize his/her
trip costs. The figure shows a slightly diminishing number of trips which is probably
influenced by the notoriously long student strikes that affected public schools and higher
education in Santiago through the whole second semester of 2011.
                                        180                                                                                                                                                                               25.0%
                                        160
                                        140                                                                                                                                                                               20.0%
          Trip legs and Trips (mill.)




                                        120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15.0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Evasion
                                        100
                                         80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10.0%
                                         60
                                         40                                                                                                                                                                               5.0%
                                         20
                                         0                                                                                                                                                                                0.0%
                                                       Sep/07




                                                                                           Sep/08




                                                                                                                               Sep/09




                                                                                                                                                                   Sep/10




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sep/11
                                              Jun/07




                                                                                  Jun/08




                                                                                                                      Jun/09




                                                                                                                                                          Jun/10




                                                                                                                                                                                               Jun/11
                                                                         Mar/08




                                                                                                             Mar/09




                                                                                                                                                 Mar/10




                                                                                                                                                                                      Mar/11
                                                                Dec/07




                                                                                                    Dec/08




                                                                                                                                        Dec/09




                                                                                                                                                                             Dec/10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dec/11
                                                                    Feeder                            Trunk                             Metro                               Trips                       Evasion


       Figure 7: Evolution of feeder, trunk and metro trip legs, total trips and evasion (Source:
       Transantiago)

As was mentioned, one of the main drivers of the high evasion rates is the fare. During
the first three years of Transantiago operation the fare barely changed; however, the last
two years have seen a significant increase of almost 50%. Figure 8 shows the striking
correlation between fares and evasion rates. During this period the currency fluctuated
between US$1=$450 and $650. The bus fare jumped from approximately US$0.70 when
Transantiago started to approximately US$1.15 nowadays.




                                                                                                                               62
                  700                                                                                    26%

                  650                                                                                    24%

                                                                                                         22%
                  600
                                                                                                         20%
                  550
                                                                                                         18%




                                                                                                               Evasion
      Fares ($)




                  500
                                                                                                         16%
                  450
                                                                                                         14%
                  400
                                                                                                         12%

                  350                                                                                    10%

                  300                                                                                    8%




                                        Bus Fare         Metro Fare          Evasion


    Figure 8: Evolution of a single bus trip fare, a single metro trip fare (peak period) and fare evasion (Source:
    Transantiago)

2.4 Performance indicators
The operational performance of a public transport system as complex as Transantiago
must be characterized by many different dimensions and should consider the integrated
level of service provided by the system as a whole (Metro and buses). At least we should
consider: access times, waiting times, travel times and number of transfers. The
performance indicators of this section were obtained from Muñoz (2012), in which a
representative sample of 400 trips in Santiago was thoroughly analyzed (400 trips were
selected to provide a statistically significant estimation of the average travel time for the
whole city, however for a more disaggregated analysis the number of trips does not
guarantee the same level of statistical robustness). The background of Figure 9 displays a
histogram of the distance (measured over the network) travelled by different
Transantiago users. The same figure displays the average time spent by a traveler walking,
waiting, and riding inside the vehicle for each distance segment. According to this study,
during the morning peak, the average origin to destination distance corresponds to 11.4
kilometers, while the average walking, waiting and travelling times for Transantiago
users are 13.8, 8.2 and 28.6 minutes respectively.




                                                       63
       14%                                                                                    120.0
       12%                                                                                    100.0
       10%
                                                                                              80.0




                                                                                                            Time (min)
        8%
                                                                                              60.0
        6%
                                                                                              40.0
        4%
        2%                                                                                    20.0

        0%                                                                                    0.0
                2.5      5.0     7.5   10.0 12.5 15.0 17.5 20.0 22.5 25.0 Más
                                                                                      More
                                         Length of the trip (km)
                                                                    Trips   Walking     Waiting     In-vehicle

       Figure 9: Average trip conditions across all public transport users. Background: histogram of the
       distance traveled; front: access time, waiting time and in-vehicle time for each distance (Source:
       Muñoz, 2012)

However, not only average indicators are relevant here; the performance is strongly
linked to the reliability of these indicators across different times when the same trip is
started. Indeed, even though the average door to door travel time across all trips
corresponds to approximately 50.6 minutes, its standard deviation has been estimated as
5.9 minutes. This means that once every 20 trips, the total travel time is more than 10
minutes longer than the average.
On the other hand, travel conditions vary greatly in different areas of the city. Figure 10
shows the average total travel time for all trips within a given distance interval (the
confidence interval is 95%). This means that while some 15 kilometer long trips may take
37 minutes on average, others will take 84 minutes on average. This explains why users
have such varying experiences throughout the city, with some people considering
Transantiago a modern and efficient system, while others criticize it as slow, crowded,
infrequent, and inaccessible.
          14%                                                                                140
          12%                                                                                120
          10%                                                                                100
           8%                                                                                80
                                                                                                    (min)




           6%                                                                                60
           4%                                                                                40
           2%                                                                                20
           0%                                                                                0
                   2.5     5.0    7.5 10.0 12.5 15.0 17.5 20.0 22.5 25.0 Más
                                                                                      More
                                          Length of the trip (km)       Trips         Travel Time


        Figure 10: 95% confidence interval for average travel time across all public transport users in
        Santiago (Source: Muñoz, 2012)




                                                     64
The study results of Muñoz (2012) are somewhat consistent with those reported by
Observatorio de Movilidad Urbana (OMU) (2009) and presented in Table 7 in which the
travel time for road and rail trips are compared across 15 Latin-American cities. The
document is not clear regarding how these travel times are computed. The travel times
collected in 2007 and reported in the document coincide with the worst period for
Transantiago. Even under those circumstances, the system appeared to provide a better
level of service than most of the other comparable cities considered in the sample.
In a parallel study, DICTUC, a branch of the Catholic University of Chile, (2011) was
measuring the same set of trips since the beginning of Transantiago. Figure 11 displays
the evolution of their measurements during the morning peak period. The study also
includes the average travel time obtained during two different studies developed during
2001 and 2006, yielding 46.7 and 52.6 respectively.
The average level of service (access time, waiting time, travel time, number of transfers,
comfort, reliability, etc.) in the city started significantly lower than the one offered by the
previous system. However, as can be observed from Figure 11, significant improvements
were already observed by the end of 2007 that have remained quite constant since then. It
can also be observed that nowadays the level of service offered by Transantiago is better
than the one offered by the previous system, especially if the impact of the projected level
of citywide congestion is considered. Notwithstanding, overcrowding inside the vehicles
has become a recurring complaint, especially in Metro, as can be inferred from Table 3,
since the demand doubled in a single year without a corresponding capacity increase.
              City                    Country             Travel time (min)
                                                       Road      Rail      All
              Belo Horizonte          Brazil           38.1      35.0     38.1
              Bogotá                  Colombia         72.1       0.0     72.1
              Buenos Aires            Argentina        37.0      39.1     37.3
              Caracas                 Venezuela        55.3      20.0     53.0
              Ciudad de México        México           45.5      40.0     45.1
              Curitiba                Brazil           36.5       0.0     36.5
              Guadalajara             México           47.8      35.0     47.4
              León                    México           52.2       0.0     52.2
              Lima                    Peru             60.0       0.0     60.0
              Montevideo              Uruguay          34.7      25.0     34.7
              Porto Alegre            Brazil           35.2      25.0     34.8
              Río de Janeiro          Brazil           41.6      35.7     41.4
                                      Costa
              San José                                 57.0         43.0        57.0
                                      Rica
              Santiago                Chile            47.0         29.0        43.6
              São Paulo               Brazil           46.1         41.4        45.6
               Table 7: Travel times in different Latin-American cities in 2007 (Source:
               "Observatorio de Movilidad Urbana - CAF", 2009)




                                                65
          Figure 11: Evolution of average total travel time (walking+waiting+in-vehicle) and waiting
          time for a sample of Transantiago trips (Source: DICTUC, 2011)

A very important element of the system’s bottom line performance is its evaluation by the
users. This has been a difficult battle for Transantiago since its evaluation is (almost) at
its lowest since it was inaugurated five years ago. Figure 12 shows the approval rating of
public transport issues in Chile since the inauguration of Transantiago. The graph
distinguishes individuals in Santiago from the rest of the country, but does not distinguish
users from non-users. On the other hand, Figure 13 shows the net satisfaction (defined as
the difference between approving and disapproving passengers) for frequent users of
Transantiago which is slightly higher than for the general citizen. Both graphs are
consistent, showing that approval peaked by the end of 2009, right before fares started to
increase systematically. Although the drop could be associated with the national
government election change in March 2010, it appears that its main driver was the fare
increase. Meanwhile, the level of service has remained constant (with the exception of
the period from March to September 2010 in which the volume of services dropped as
observed in Figure 1) and the fare evasion rate has grown.
          50

          40

          30

          20

          10

           0
           Jan/07              May/08              Sep/09              Feb/11               Jun/12
        Figure 12. Transantiago approval ratings among Santiago citizens (Source: Adimark, 2010; 2012)




                                                    66
      100%


       50%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4% 3% 2%
        0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -7% -4%
                                                                                   -17%
                                                                   -31%    -28%-26%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -30%-32%-30%
      -50%                                                 -39%-39%    -38%
                                                   -43%-46%
               -51%-51%-57%-48%-50%-51%-52%    -51%
                                           -58%
           -70%
      -100%                                                  Aug-07
                Mar-07




                                                                                                          Jan-08


                                                                                                                            Mar-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jul-09 / Aug-09
                                                                                        Nov-07
                                                                                                 Dec-07
                         Apr-07


                                           Jun-07



                                                                      Sep-07
                                                                               Oct-07




                                                                                                                   Feb-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jan-09 / Feb-09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mar-09 / Apr-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mar-10 / Apr-10


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mar-11 / Apr-11
                                  May-07




                                                                                                                                                                         Sep-08 / Oct-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sep-09 / Oct-09
                                                    Jul-07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Aug-10 / Sep-10
                                                                                                                                     Apr-08 / May-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dec-09 / Jan-10
                                                                                                                                                                                           Nov-08 / Dec-08



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 May-09 / Jun-08
                                                                                                                                                       Jun-08 / Jul-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jun-11 / Jul-11
              Figure 13. Net satisfaction among Transantiago’s frequent users (Source: Collect Gfk, 2011)

2.5 Contracts
It is difficult to imagine a set of contracts that have been amended as often as those of
Transantiago’s operators. Since February 2007 they have been changed 17 times, four of
them quite structural. Even though all these amendments kept the structure of the original
contracts, several of them imposed new incentives to the operators. The original contracts
aimed at providing a low risk operation in which changes in ridership had a minimal
effect in revenues captured by the firms. This reduced demand risk faced by bidding
firms helped to attract new and international operators to Transantiago and to guarantee a
very competitive bidding process. The contracts specified substantial fines and revenue
deductions for operators who did not provide the services that were agreed in the
operational plan. However, the contracts also established that once an operator
accumulated a certain (fairly low) number of fines, its contract would expire. Very soon
the authority realized that this contract was not working to its advantage, since getting rid
of the operators did not help to improve the system. Thus, the fines were useless and the
authority was unable to enforce high quality service. This proved quite catastrophic. In
the beginning it meant that the operators kept most buses at the terminals, thereby
providing very insufficient services. Even though this was solved by the contract’s first
amendment, the mismatch between the incentives of operators and the goals of the
authority remained. By mid 2011, this discrepancy materialized in the form of operators
being insensitive to passengers evading the fare or drivers skipping some bus stops in
order to reach the performance indicators associated with the operational plan (although
hard to believe, this last issue has become a quite frequent passenger complaint about
Transantiago).
The authorities and operators have recently signed a new set of contracts (they are not
amendments to previous ones) imposing a new regulatory framework that significantly
increases the impact of ridership captured by operators in their revenues. The new
contracts improve and increase the indicators that relate revenues to the quality of service
being offered. The contracts also incorporate a cap to the potential subtractions in
revenues when the effective supply of services differs from the plan or if the regularity of


                                                                                                                       67
services drops below a certain standard. In total, the operators face a higher demand risk
with the new contracts. The authorities expect that in this new scenario operators will be
more worried about the quality of service being offered and will fight fare evasion since
it affects their own pockets. The authorities are also confident that the new incentives will
not bring on-the-street wild competition for passengers, which is one of the main
achievements of Transantiago in relation to the previous system since quite few firms are
operating, service overlapping from different firms has been kept quite limited, and the
operators cannot choose their services freely.
Finally, it is worth mentioning that in this last renegotiation of contracts the authority also
tried to keep financially sustainable firms operating in the system. It did this by including
some stabilizing mechanisms for firms revenues, limiting the maximum revenue
discounts that can be applied (Transantiago can intervene with a firm that repeatedly
provides unsatisfactory service), and establishing mechanisms to adapt to unpredictable
urban and economic conditions.
Since Transantiago started, three feeder operators went bankrupt and had to leave the
system. This created a significant headache to the authorities and damaged the level of
service to users. Thus, one of the outcomes of the negotiation process was to merge
service areas under fewer and larger players.
2.6 Financial situation
Transantiago was designed to operate without subsidies and to offer a similar average
fare per trip than the previous system; however it was launched at a slightly reduced
average fare. Even though this constraint implied fewer and larger buses, this goal was
never achieved. In the first place, the operation of a formal public transport system is
considerably more expensive than an informal one, for instance, because it entails
considerably higher labor costs. Secondly, an integrated fare is more expensive to
manage. Additionally, the new system allows for more than one trip per fare within the
120-minute time window.
It soon became clear that Transantiago would need significant subsidies to operate. In
fact, the system’s annual costs have reached approximately US$1.700 million, which is
significantly higher than the costs originally planned. The government raised funds for
Transantiago with two purposes. The first was to use central funds to subsidize students
who pay only one third of the regular fare instead of recuperating the difference from the
rest of the system’s users. The second has been to employ central funds to cover
Transantiago’s operational deficit. The total subsidies are significant and have reached
over US$50 million per month (around 40% of the total costs). Figure 13 shows the
evolution of the monthly deficit expressed in US$. Furthermore, the government also
decided that every peso spent as a subsidy in Transantiago must be mirrored in some
other Chilean city. Thus, the total national subsidy for public transport is actually double
the figure required by Transantiago.




                                             68
         80.0

         70.0

         60.0

         50.0

         40.0

         30.0

         20.0

         10.0

          0.0
           May/07                Sep/08                 Jan/10                 Jun/11

                    Figure 13: Monthly deficit (in US$) from June 2007 to January 2012

An integrated public transport system like Transantiago should be subsidized for several
reasons. On one hand, it causes significantly less congestion, pollution and accidents than
cars. On the other, subsidies allows the provision of more and more frequent services
reducing access times and waiting times for all users of the system. These efficiency
gains have been highlighted as one of the more relevant reasons justifying subsidies.
Finally, they can hardly been accused of being regressive since the large majority of
public transport users belong to the poorest sectors in the city.
3. Achievements
The main achievements of Transantiago can be listed as follows:
a) The industry has been formalized. It has moved from thousands of small operators to a
   group of seven firms corresponding to only five different financial groups which are
   easier to inspect, monitor and coordinate. Also, drivers now have formal contracts
   which must obey labor legislation.
b) Transantiago has reduced transit externalities significantly. As shown in Figure 14,
   accidents involving buses dropped by half for several reasons: drivers no longer work
   insanely long shifts nor compete for passengers in the streets, vehicles are more
   reliable since they are better maintained, and vehicles no longer move with their doors
   open. Also, bus-based pollution and noise has reduced significantly. According to a
   study developed by the Mario Molina Centre in 2009, Transantiago has contributed in
   reducing the concentration of ultrathin particles (mainly associated to buses) by
   cutting the number of kilometers driven and requiring buses to be equipped with
   higher technological standards. For example, in Alameda, the main street in Santiago,
   the concentration of ultrathin particles dropped by 25%. Environmental emergencies
   are less frequent than before even though the city, its activities, and the vehicle fleet
   have continued to grow.



                                                  69
           7000

           6000

           5000

           4000

           3000

           2000

           1000

                0
                     2005       2006       2007       2008       2009       2010

        Figure 14: Annual number of accidents involving urban buses in Santiago (Source:
        CONASET)

c) Low floor buses (80% of the fleet) equipped to handle users with reduced mobility,
   fulfilled a strong need for this group.
d) Fares in the system are fully integrated. Passengers perceive the total set of public
   transport services as a system and can take the most advantage out of the full network.
   The introduction of the magnetic touchless card Bip! has been considered a great
   success, reaching a 100% penetration among Santiago’s citizens and being one of the
   few elements well evaluated by users from the beginning of the plan.
e) Metro moves twice as many passengers as before while still providing a good level of
   service. The firm has proven very dynamic and innovative to deal with such a
   challenge without a proportional increment in its fleet. In early 2012, it got the ―Best
   Metro of the Americas‖ award.
f) Also, two social conflicts which used to happen inside buses have been eradicated:
   student discrimination by drivers (since operators are paid the same by all types of
   passengers) and drivers’ assaults (since new buses run cash-less).
g) Finally, the introduction of subsidies for the public transport system can also be
   considered a success as long as these funds end up improving the quality of service
   beyond what users can finance with their own fares, instead of financing the fares of
   those users that refuse to pay.
4. Challenges
Transantiago faces, however, several challenges in different areas.
Operational
The main challenges here are the following:
a) Improve bus headway control. Regular service not only increases reliability, it also
   reduces waiting times and improves comfort (Delgado et al., 2012). Unreliability in
   bus service is one of the most common complaints of Transantiago.


                                             70
b) Improve bus speeds which are quite low in several corridors of the city (Muñoz,
   2012). Increasing speed reduces cycle times which in turn increase the frequency and
   capacity offered. Thus, higher speeds improve travel times, waiting times and comfort.
   Transantiago should expand its bus infrastructure as this has proven to increase bus
   speeds significantly, as well as extend and strengthen bus priority enforcement in bus
   lanes and corridors. It could also implement an extensive bus priority program at
   traffic signals and formalize (using proper buses and scheduled services) its ―super
   expresos‖ services which use the urban highways to join very distanced and dense city
   areas. As the level of service in Transantiago varies significantly across the city, the
   authorities should focus their efforts in those areas where the service is worst.
c) Fight fare evasion. This has implications that transcend the public transport system.
   Evasion has become so massive in certain areas that it could affect the morals of the
   city. The government is now relying on operators to fight it, but should not step back
   in its own responsibility to bring evasion back to international standards.
d) Transantiago already has five years of experience. The demand patterns involved in
   everyday trips are well understood. However, this knowledge has only recently been
   processed and is now being used for developing operational plans or making
   decisions. It seems that there is still a gap to be filled which should benefit the
   unavoidable trade-off between user level of service and system costs.
Infrastructure
The government has prioritized the infrastructure for Metro over buses. Even though
Metro offers a very high level of service which will probably improve even further with
the newly added fleet (and may capture more demand to fill those trains instead of
providing more comfortable trips), it is clear that new lines will suffer from the
inescapable network effect of decreasing marginal productivity. If we add to the above
the high cost of Metro infrastructure, it is clear that Transantiago should direct investment
toward bus infrastructure, particularly BRT. Since its beginning, Transantiago has had a
bus infrastructure master plan that has been continuously delayed. The authorities should
implement this infrastructure plan, even if it implies removing some privileges for car
drivers. Congestion in the city during peak periods is reaching high levels and some areas
urgently require public transport services that could attract car owners. Bus infrastructure
is a key player in this fight. To win this battle, the corridors and lanes already built for
buses must be respected by cars. The government has started an enforcement project in a
few corridors based on automatic photo evidence and red painted bus lanes which should
be extended to the whole city. Also, very often the intersections of these bus corridors are
not well designed. This means that the interaction between buses, pedestrians, and/or cars
is so inefficient that the travel time savings gained from the high speeds experienced at
the corridor are lost.
The system started without pre-payment stations for buses. This mistake was corrected
quite quickly through a series of temporary fence-based prepayment stations operating
during peak periods only. The temporary stations were very successful in terms of
speeding up dwell times, reducing evasion and improving the boarding experience for the


                                            71
user. However, after five years, the city has not turned this transitory infrastructure into
something definitive that could add value to the urban landscape as is observed in many
other Latin-American cities.
Another relevant issue that should be addressed is the infrastructure for pedestrians and
bikers. Every transit user has to overcome an initial and a final distance through a non
motorized mode. In Santiago, even though in most Latin American cities the situation is
worse, pedestrians are exposed to uncomfortable conditions (e.g. crowdedness at
sidewalks, poor illumination, wet sidewalks during rains, etc.).
Information
The public transport system that preceded Transantiago lacked a user information system.
Transantiago has made some progress by implementing a call center, a web-based trip
planner for users, a real-time system informing the arrival time of the next few buses to
each stop based on text messages, and some information at most stops. However, the
information provided to users at buses and stops is still notably poor. The main hurdles
here have been vandalism and bureaucracy. More devices that provide online information
about the arrival time for the coming buses should be installed at the most relevant stops
(only one of these devices has been installed and has worked very well for more than two
years). Certainly, having better infrastructure in the most visited stations would help to
implement such a system there.
Also, even though Metro is the spinal chord around which Transantiago was built, the
users perceive Metro and Transantiago as separated entities. Metro has a big
responsibility with this issue since very little of its information system has changed from
when it was a fully independent transport mode. Metro should consider that its
responsibility starts much earlier than the moment a user steps in one of its stations.
Finance
Transantiago has brought subsidies that were strongly needed to public transport.
However, the total amount of subsidies assigned has not been the result of a rational
decision, balancing the social short- and long-term benefits of these subsidies with those
that could be obtained in alternative investments. Instead, the bulk of the subsidies are
needed to prevent fares from escalating. In addition, some effort should be made to
allocate subsidies to the socioeconomic groups that need them most.
Institutions
Even though Transantiago is a fully integrated system, too many agencies are involved in
key aspects of the plan. This has often prevented important decisions from being made.
Thus, one of the main problems of Transantiago is the lack of a single authority that
could simplify the decision process by looking at the system as a whole. Such an
authority should look at all transport modes in Santiago, not just at public transport. In
the last five years, the functions of the Ministry of Transport have been strengthened, and
a permanent public transport subsidy has been approved. The next step should be a
citywide authority as those that have been successfully implemented in London, Madrid
or New York.




                                           72
Contracts
New contracts with operators have been signed recently and their consequences are hard
to predict. However, one important concern is that the number of firms operating in
Santiago has been reduced to only seven, and relate to only five economic groups (with
one of them operating one third of the Transantiago fleet), so these firms will face the
authority with a much stronger hand. Another concern is that this situation could escalate
the consequences in already conflictive relations between driver unions and firms. Finally,
in the future, the authority should reduce the length of the contracts signed with the
operators. Their current length of more than 10 years is unnecessary long.
A second issue is the relation between the authority and the Technological and Financial
Administrator of Transantiago (AFT). The performance of this entity, controlled by the
most relevant banks in Chile, has been disappointing. The AFT has provided a very weak
charging network for the payment card, it has been very static in developing new
financial opportunities for this card that has 100% penetration in Santiago, etc. The AFT
has become an obstacle for the evolution of the system. The authority has announced that
the AFT will be next in the set of contracts to be revised.
As a final comment, Transantiago needs to earn the trust of citizens who have not
forgiven its catastrophic beginnings and its later consecutive fare increases. Transantiago
has made significant achievements, which many cities worldwide would consider almost
impossible. However, it still lacks some key elements that a public transport system
should provide; some of these elements, such as the infrastructure, have been quite well
solved in several cities in neighboring countries.
5. References
Adimark (2010) Encuesta: Evaluación Gestión del Gobierno a Enero 2010.
http://www.adimark.cl/es/estudios/documentos/Ev_Gob_Ene2010.pdf
Adimark (2012) Encuesta:Evaluación Gestión del Gobierno a Marzo 2012.
http://www.adimark.cl/es/estudios/documentos/003_ev_gob_3_mar12.pdf
Beltran, P., Gschwender, A. and Palma, C. (2011). The impact of compliance measures
on the operation of a bus system: the case of Transantiago. 12th International Conference
on Competition and Ownership in Land Passenger Transport (Thredbo12), Durban,
South Africa.
Collect GfK (2011) Transantiago Estudio Tracking Calidad de Servicio Nº 5, Junio-Julio
2011.
DICTUC (2011) Medición de Indicadores de Desempeño del Sistema de Transporte
Público de Santiago, 2007–2011. Subsecretaría de Transportes, Ministerio de Transporte
y Telecomunicaciones.
Delgado, F., J.C. Munoz and R. Giesen (2012) How much can holding and/or limiting
boarding improve transit performance? Transportation Research B (in press).
Munoz, J.C. (2012) Indicadores críticos en la percepción del nivel de servicio ofrecido a
usuarios. II Congreso Las Mejores Prácticas SIBRT en América Latina. Léon, México;
April 25-26, 2012.



                                           73
Munoz, J.C., Ortúzar, J. de D. and Gschwender, A. (2008) Transantiago: the fall and rise
of a radical public transport intervention. In W Saleh and G. Sammer (eds.), Travel
Demand Management and Road User Pricing: Success, Failure and Feasibility. Chapter
9, 151-172. Ashgate Publishing Limited, Farnham.




                                         74
Annex 11. Original Indicators and Degree of Achievement
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target      Formally
                                                                            Actual Value Achieved
                                               Values (from         Revised
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                           at Completion or
                                                 approval           Target
                                                                                  Target Years
                                                documents)          Values
Indicator 1 : Survey to assess Transantiago’s impact on transport demand completed
                                            Survey to assess
                Survey to assess
Value                                       Transantiago’s                  Origin-Destination
                Transantiago’s impact on
Quantitative or                             impact on                       survey ongoing with
                transport demand not
Qualitative)                                transport demand                local resources
                carried out
                                            completed
Date achieved 05/11/2005                    12/31/2009                      04/06/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target likely to be met in the future with local resources
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Design of a monitoring system for the environmental impacts of Transantiago
                                                                              Several elements of such a
                                                                              monitoring system devised,
                                         Monitoring system                    i.e. the methodology used
                No monitoring system for for the                              to regularly monitor
Value                                                                         Transantiago’s impact on
                the environmental        environmental
Quantitative or                                                               air quality and the Web site
                impacts of Transantiago impacts of                            to disseminate the results;
Qualitative)
                designed                 Transantiago                         noise monitoring system
                                         designed                             likely to be implemented in
                                                                              the near future with local
                                                                              resources
Date achieved 05/11/2005                  12/31/2009                          04/06/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Target partially met
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Preparation of an institutional framework for Transantiago
                                                                              Seminar on
                                                                              metropolitan transport
                                                                              authorities organized;
                                          Preparation of an                   draft law to create
Value
                Institutional framework   institutional                       such an authority
(Quantitative
                not yet existing          framework for                       pending;
or Qualitative)
                                          Transantiago                        Transantiago-SE
                                                                              strengthened from an
                                                                              organizational point of
                                                                              view; initiative to


                                             75
                                                                             transform
                                                                             Transantiago-SE into
                                                                             autonomous entity
                                                                             ongoing
Date achieved 05/11/2005                12/31/2009                           04/06/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Target met
achievement)
              Design of an Action Plan for the proposed mitigation measures for low-income
Indicator 2 :
              users, including an implementation schedule
                                                                             Action Plan only for one
Value
                Action Plan not yet         Action Plan                      particular group of low-
(Quantitative                                                                income people devised,
                available                   available
or Qualitative)                                                              i.e. street market vendors
Date achieved 05/11/2005                   12/31/2009                    04/06/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target only partially met
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Completion of Road Infrastructure Management Plan
                                           Road
Value                                                                    Transantiago-SE created
                No Road Infrastructure Infrastructure
(Quantitative                                                            a simple pavement
                Management Plan            Management Plan               management system
or Qualitative)
                                           completed
Date achieved 05/11/2005                   12/31/2009                    04/06/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target partially met with local resources
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Implementation of the dissemination campaign for Transantiago
                                            Implementation of                Transantiago-SE
Value           No dissemination                                             implemented many
                                            the dissemination
(Quantitative campaign for                                                   dissemination campaigns
                                            campaign for                     and communications
or Qualitative) Transantiago
                                            Transantiago                     activities
Date achieved     05/11/2005                12/31/2009                       04/06/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target met with local resources
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Proposal of land use and transport planning coordination
Value
(Quantitative     No proposal               Proposal prepared                No proposal
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/11/2005                12/31/2009                       04/06/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target not met
achievement)




                                               76
