                                                      SFG1316




                       REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORK AND HAYWAYS
         Integrated Urban Development Project
                       (IUDP)
                            (For Taiz City )

                                   Report
                                       On
                   Social Safeguards Issues
                               And(ARAP)



Prepare by:

Eng./Mohammed Abdullah A.Saleh

Social and safeguards Consultant Officer (PIU/IUDP)
                          Table of Contents :

No                     Description                         Page No.
1.   Introduction                                             2
2.   Preamble                                                 2
3.   Project implementation                                   3
4.   Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan ( ARAP )            3
5.   Approach and Methodology                                 3
6.   Resettlement budget and fund flow                        4
7.   Organization and Timetable                               4
8.   Socio – Economic profile of the affected population      4
9.   Further Actions                                          4
10   Conclusion                                               4
11   The need for land acquisition or land taken              4
14   I )Al Maftash Contract ( Works – 1 ) - Al-Kahirah
                                                              5
     District
15   Measures Followed and Actions Taken                      6
16   (a) The Shanty belong to ( Mrs. Fatimah
                                                              7
     Mohammed Mahmud ):
17   (b) The Shop belong to(Nazirah Ahmed Mahmud):            7
18   II) Al Hrazia& Al Aros Contract ( Works 4 & 5 )-
                                                            9 - 10
     Salah Distract :
19     Measures and Actions Taken :                          11
20     The Results :                                       11 - 12
21     Annexes Of Tables :                                   13
22      1- Research Form Of Fatimah .                         14
23      2- Research Form Of Nazirah .                         14
24      3- Table Of Two Cases In Al-Maftash .                 15
25      4- Table Of Four Cases In Al-Haraziah .               16
26      5- Table Of Five Voluntarily Cases                    17
27       Annexes Of Anther Documents :                     18 - 22
28       Annexes Of Photographs :                          23 - 31




                                    1
Introduction :
    Taiz Urban Development Project ( T – IUDP ) was given as a grant by
International Development Authority ( IDA ) as a result of astonishing successes
which were realized by Taiz Municipal Development and Flood Protection
Project ( TMDFPP ) and efforts which have been made for the sake of its
succeeding .

    This new awarded project ( T – IUDP ) was for sake of developing and
upgrading the basic infrastructures ( water , sewerage , open channel , box
culvert , roads and bath way , etc. )and improving social , environmental ,
economical and healthy levels for three chosen random and very poverty areas
in Taiz city. These areas are :

   1- Al-Maftash – 2- Al-Noor City – 3- Al-Haraziah and Al-Aroos area.


   1- Preamble :
   The IUDP project currently implemented in Taiz city was prepared in
accordance with WB rules and regulations and in compliance with environment
and social safeguards. ESMP and IESIA studies has been prepared by competent
and qualified consultants Dar- Al-Handsa and CES respectively on the year 2010
before the commencement of works. Also, as per the request of IDA, The IESIA
study were updated by the same consultant Dar-Al-Handsa on March 11,2013.

    As expected in the studies, the works of urban upgrading currently
implemented under the IUDP contracts ( Al–Maftash, Mdint Al –Nour,
Al- Harazia) have in general a positive environmental and social impacts on the
public who lives in that three areas and improving the living conditions of those
communities. The projectprovided essential services such as water supply,
sewerage, surface drainage, flood prevention, roads and footpaths ----etc.

    As recommended in the project documents, All permanent of project
structures were constructed on state-owned land with no private land
expropriation and Where public land is unavailable. No needs for land
acquisition, resettlement, compensation or any other safeguard issues were
detected that would trigger OP 4.12 safeguard policies. However, Should any
such issues come up unexpectedly during project implementation, the existing



                                        2
studies with related to environmental and social impact mitigations considered
valid and sufficient.

    In this casealso, and in coordination with World Bank representative (Mr.
Basslama), As Social Officer in the project team has prepared social reports
(inArabic), the report included the necessary steps as abbreviated RAP to
followed in such issues that may be raised during project implementation.

   2- Project implementation :
    In general, the project implementation of IUDP in the targeted three areas in
the city of Taiz gave a high degree of credibility and appreciation among
beneficiaries. The project solved a lot of problems, created a new access and
facilitated accessibility togarbage collection.

    The implementation of IUDP project increased the safety, health and well-
being of residents and provides necessary utilities, other infrastructure
whichcontribute to environmental improvements. As expected no significant
negative effects were encountered. Also, no resettlement needs or other
safeguard issues such as land acquisition were detected during project design.

   However, due to some reasons during implementation, small or minor issues
not affected the project implementation were appeared;

   3- Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan ( ARAP ) :
    The ( ARAP ) is based on Environmental and Social Management Plan
(ESMP), social impact assessment ( SIA ) for urban upgrading , consultation with
affected gropes and the relevant agenesis andbased – also – on the main of
objective of the World Bank ( OP4.12 ).

   ARAP : based on emergency cases .

    The ARAP provides the results of the survey conducted during the various
stages of the project implementation.

   4- Approach and Methodology :
   The approach and methodology for the project, including:

       Continually sites visits to the project areas in order to compile the
        inventory of different information .


                                        3
           Interviews with governmental officials- as relevant.
           Consultation with local authorities – as relevant.
           Socio – economic survey of PAPs was conducted through the series of
            the structured interviews with the heads of PAPs.
       5- Resettlement budget and fund flow :
        It was not included the total cost of resettlement activities in the total cost
         of the project .
       6- Organization and Timetable :
        It was not linked resettlement implementation to project timetable.
       7- Socio – Economic profile of the affected population :
        Socio – economic studies were done only for two families in AlMaftash
         area .
       8- Further Actions :
        No further provisions and recommendation are deemednecessary unless
         otherwise specified by peer reviewers .
       9- Conclusion :
       All cases mention previously appeared during implementation of the project ,
       there was no any case in the past before implementation , for that reasons it
       was necessary to solve the problems day by day during the implementation .

The need for land acquisition or land taken:
   During the implementation of various components of the project appeared
three types of cases as the following:

  I.      The two PAPs ( families ) that received compensation due to removal of
          small steel shop ( 2m× 3m ) and the removal of concrete bricks with
          wooden roof shop ( 4m × 9m ) in Al-Maftash contract ( work-1).
 II.      The four PAPs ( individual and families ) who claim the ownership of lands
          and asked for compensation for parts of their lands that were taken for
          roads expansion / widening in Al-Harazia contract ( works 4 & 5 ).
III.      Five PAPs that voluntarily donated part of their lands for roads widening
          and do not expect to receive compensations .Three PAPs in Madinat
          Al-Noure contract ( works 2 & 3 )and two PAPs in Al-Harazia contract
          ( works 4 & 5 ) .




                                             4
                    In the following , it is possible that explaining and detailing the three
                    previous cases as follows :

      I )Al Maftash Contract ( Works                                       – 1 ) - Al-Kahirah District:
      Only two issues come up unexpectedly during the implementation of Al-Maftash
      urban upgrading project, this two cases were due to the request and willingness
      of Local authorities to widening the only road in Al Maftash area available to
      provide access to the poor communities, which located at the lower part of
      project and adjacent to the Wadi. from the other side. the remaining of
      Al Maftash area have a difficult topography andthe construction of stone steps
      was provided . Based on the request of local authority to help and determine the
      impact of street widening on local citizens, the contractor in coordination with
      construction supervision consultant and PIU team carried out the required
      survey and identified the following two small issues need compensation for
      property acquisition:

             1. Shack of 6 m2 area built with zink and steel plates belong and adjacent to
                the beneficiary house Mrs. Fatimah Mohammed Mahmud. The shack
                used for sale some local and children needs that help in improving the
                living condition of her family consist of 3 persons (mother and two
                daughter).
             2. Shop of 36 m2 area its walls builtof cement block and have wooden roof
                belong and adjacent to the beneficiary house Mrs. Nazirah Ahmed
                Mahmud. The shop built as additional and separatedpart of the
                beneficiary house andlies totally in the street. The shop used to improve
                the living condition of beneficiary family.
     1- Two affected families who have already received compensation, in Al Maftash Area:



                                                                                                      Amount of      Amount of
                No. of                      Existing    Total Area Area Acquired Percent Area                                   Compensation
   PAP                        Owners Name                                                        Compensation Paid Compensation                  Comments
               Persons                      Structure (meter square) (meter square) Acquired (%)                                   Status
                                                                                                   ( Yemeni Rials)  Paid ( USD)
                   -9
                                                                                                                                               More than 10%
                                Nazirah                                                                                                        of total Area for
             (50 years old
Family (1)                       Ahmed       House        101.25         4 x 9 = 36         36     2,200,000         10,233         Paid        road widening
             wife, husband,
                                Mahmoud                                                                                                        ( No Relocated
                3 men and
                                                                                                                                                        )
                4 women)

                   -3
                                 Fatima       Small                                                                                            Built new shop
             (85 years old
Family (2)                     Mohammed     Steel Box    2x3=6           2x3=6              100     200,000           930           Paid        in different
               lady and
                                Mahmoud       Shop                                                                                                   place
              2 daughters)

socil safeguards & socil consultant officer                                                                                     Approval
                                                                                      5
Eng: Mohammed AL-Qurashi
  In this view, The PIU put clearly to the Local Authority in Taiz Governorate
  that, the project implementation did not involves any acquisition against
  compensation. also, theconstruction of all original works under Al Maftash
  contract will not affected in case there is no widening for the above
  mentioned street. For this reason and due to necessity for the widening of the
  only street within the project area, the local authorities insured its
  responsibility to take the proper action in compliance with WB safeguards
  and to compensate fairly any affected person as a result of street widening.

Accordingly, the following steps and actions were taken by the PIUin
coordination with Social and safeguard Officer working with the project team:

  i) Registered all information related to the above two issues and rise it to the
         committee that was established by the local authority in the project
         area and consist of Head of District, Legal advisor; Community leader
         and others as needed.
  ii) Not allow the requested works to start (a)unless satisfactory
         compensation has been agreed between the local Authorities and
         affected person (b) the compensation has been delivered in a
         satisfactory manner to the affected persons.
  iii) Amicable solutions were agreed with the two affected persons involves
         acquisition against compensation.

Measures Followed and Actions Taken :
   The local Authorities for Taiz City (local Council for Al-kahirah District)
    have directed (PIU)to wideningthe only main Street available in
    Al-Maftash are a according to the Master Plan and according to the
    Neighborhood Plan (No 234 ) and they have undertaken to compensate
    any beneficiary to be harmed from this expending of the only main
    street.Also, since the project budget did not involve any type of
    compensation, the local authority confirm that, they will provide full
    compensations to families may be affected.
   When the contractor of Al-Maftash Area Layed out the only main streetin
    the area according to Master Plan at site, the following 2 issues were
    appeared and need to be countered :




                                        6
(a) The Shanty belong to ( Mrs. Fatimah Mohammed Mahmud ):
It was small (steel- zinc )box shop:(2m*3m)=6m2 and completely laying in the
street.To improve the living condition of this family consist of 3 persons , (the
shanty was used for selling same needs to the local community.

(b) The Shop belong to(Nazirah Ahmed Mahmud):
It was cement blocks building with wooden roof , front part of it
(4m*9m=36m2)was laying in the street (she was using it as a shop to help her
family to improve living condition), but remainder house (9m*7.25m=65.25m2)
using as a house still now .

This affected part of the house was previously built as annex building to original
house with separately walls.

Therefore was necessary to follow some of required measures as these matters
(conditions ) according to the W.B. policy for resettlement and( OP4.12) within
( ARAP), so that we have done all steps and measures for these in the same times
– from the beginning up to the end , as the following :

During the period:(15-05-2013)-(31-8-2013):
 Submittedletter with the plan to these two condition , from contractor to
  supervision consultant ,required on it to solve the problems.
 The supervision consultant submitted this letter with plan to (PMU) to do
  solutions for problems.
 Then the social safeguards and social consultant officer (PMU) has begunto
  do some measures like the following:
 a. To inform two affected beneficiaries about their options and rights
    pertaining to re-settlement.
 b. To make affordable and accessible grievance redress mechanisms.
 c. Carrying out census survey and socioeconomic studies, and impact
    assessment .
 d. Providing technically and economically feasible resettlement alternatives
    and consulting these tow affected beneficiaries on offered choices .
 So that the (PMU) has prepared the letter with all information about these
  tow affected conditions (which has prepared by social safeguards officer )
  and annexes and sent it to the Public Director and Head of local Council for


                                        7
  Al-Kahirah District requiring to provide full compensations for them and to
  remove their affected real estates after receiving their full compensations.
 Local authority approval and beginning another measures, as the following:

During the period:( 01-09-2013)-(31-12-2013):
1-Lacol Authority was established committee to study the two states and to
submit report.

2-submiting the report to the committee of compensations .

3-Negotiation the affected owners about the valuations.

4-According to results of negotiation with owners , were written separately
acceptance agreement reports , on (04-12-2013):-

  - Fatimah Mohammed Mahmud :200,000 Rail.
  - Nazirah Ahmed Mahmud :2,200,000 Rail.

During the period:( 01-01-2014)-(20-05-2014):
 Following up the compensations by social safeguards officer at local
  Authorities .
 To issue bank checks for tow owners and handing over to them in small
  celebration with writing compensational checks handing over reports ,on
  (18-03-2014) in presence of all representatives of concerned authorities .
 On compensational checks handing over reports were also writing recipient
  engagements and approvals to evacuate real estates during one month from
  these date .
 Removing real estates of owners by Branch of Public Works and Roads for
  Al-Kahirah District.
 Removing site hand over to contractor who immediately beginning to work .




                                       8
 II) Al Hrazia& Al Aros Contract ( Works 4 & 5 )- Salah Distract:

  The project work of Al Harazia Contract going well since the remaining main
  structures were constructed on state owned land along the original path of the
  Wadi Salah or in the existing right of way of streets according to the General
  Plan and neighborhood ( NO 423 ) where is no resettlement or land acquisition
  problems.
  The project work has no relation With the 4 following claiming cases because
  these land is state owned landaccording to the law of land planning .
  The four PAPs ( individuals & families )who claim the ownership of lands and
  asked for compensation for part of their lands that where for roads The
  expansion – widening .
  i. PAP 1 , Ahmed Bin Ahmed Ghanem ( individual ) . This segment of the road
          widening has not been implemented because it will be implemented in
          the future by the Local Council under its own budget .
 ii. PAP 2 ,Qaid Mohammed Al Shirai ( individual ) . The land that was acquired
          for this segment of the road widening is considered as Waqef Land and is
          leased to PAP2. Accordingly , PAP2 deserves compensation for his loss of
          leasing the land and does not deserve compensation for the land itself.
          The total land area acquired is 362.88m2 and is considered as part of the
          Wadi Salah Area .
iii. PAP3 , inheritances of Ismail Qaid Mansour , which consists of family 4A , 4B
          and 4C . The segment of the road widening under 4A has not been
          implemented because the cost is very high , Under 4B , no land was
          acquired because it is not part of IUDP interventions to construct school :
          Under 4C , the road segment that was implemented is on Wadi Salah Area
          with a total land area acquired of 3803.76m2 and is considered as
          Government property according to law of land planning .




                                          9
           iv.        PAP4 , inheritances of Hassen Mohammed Far'e and inheritances of
                         Thabet Hassen Mohammed The road segment that was implemented is
                         on Wadi Salah Area with a total land area acquired of 2485.75m2 and is
                         considered as Government property according to law of land planning .

(i) The four PAPs ( individuals and families who claim the ownership of lands and asked for compensation for part of their lands that were taken for roads expansion /widening. Al Haraziah and Al Arose Area:


                                                                                                                    Amount of
                                                                                                                                   Amount of
                                  No. of                      Existing Total Area Area Acquired Percent Area Compensation                     Compensation
    S.N.           PAP                           Owners Name                                                                     Compensation                                                                                  Comments
                                 Persons                      Structure (meter square) (meter square) Acquired (%) Paid ( Yemeni                  Status
                                                                                                                                  Paid ( USD)
                                                                                                                       Rials)
                                                                                                                                               Therefore, no                                                   This segment of the road widening has not been
                                                   Ahmed Bin
     1           Person (1)          -1                         Land         243            243           100             -            -      compensation                                                    implemented because it wil be implemented in the
                                                 Ahmed Ghanem                                                                                                                                                 future by the Local Council under its own budget.
                                                                                                                                                is required
                                     -2                                                                                                                                                      Under            The land that was required for this segment of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 road widening is considered as Waqef Land.
                                                Qaid Mohammed                                                                                                                              processing
     2           Person (2)                                              Land           971.39               362.88                 37                   -                   -                                  Therefore, compensation is required for losing
                                                    Al Shira’I                                                                                                                              ( before          lease of the land in case he approves the lease of
                               Land owners                                                                                                                                                 31/03/2015)                     that land.( more than 10%)

                          Representing
                           by : Sameer Inheritances of                                                                                                                                        No
                                                                                                       6770.79+ 669.47                                                                                             4A has not been implemented
     3        Family (4A) Ahmed Ismail Ismail Qaid                       Land          36,151.52                                  20.58                  -                   -          compensation is
                                                                                                           = 7440.26                                                                                                because the cost is very high
                           and Ahmed       Mansour                                                                                                                                         required
                          Hamod Ismail
                          Representing
                            by : Sameer Inheritances of                                                                                                                                       No
                                                                                                                                                                                                        4B no land was required because it is
               Family 4B) Ahmed Ismail Ismail Qaid                       Land          36,151.52           7,595.17               21.01                  -                   -          compensation is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   not part of IUDP
                            and Ahmed      Mansour                                                                                                                                         required
                          Hamod Ismail

                                                                                                                                                                                         No compensation
                             Representing                                                                                                                                                  is authorized          4C the road segment that was
                              by : Sameer Inheritances of                                                                                                                               according to law of    implemented is on Wadi Salah Area
                 Family (4C) Ahmed Ismail Ismail Qaid                    Land          36,151.52            3,803.76               10.5                  -                   -            land planning         and is considered as Government
                              and Ahmed      Mansour                                                                                                                                       because it is         property according to law of land
                                                                                                                                                                                        considered as Gov.
                             Hamod Ismail                                                                                                                                                                                    planning
                                                                                                                                                                                              property


                                             Inheritances of
                                                                                                                                                                                        No compensation
                               Representing      Hassan                                                                                                                                   is authorized             The road segment that was
                                    by :    Mohammed Far’e                                                                                                                              according to law        implemented is on Wadi Salah Area
     4           Family (4)     Abdulhakim              and              Land           8,472.33            2,485.75              29.33                  -                   -          of land planning         and is considered as Government
                                  Thabet     Inheritances of                                                                                                                               because it is         property according to law of land
                                Mohammed Thabet Hasan                                                                                                                                    considered as                        planning
                                                                                                                                                                                          Gov. property
                                               Mohammed




                                                                                                                         11
Measures and Actions Taken :
 Carrying out census survey for four cases .
 Preparing letters with all information with annexes about these four cases
  ( separately for each ) and sending then to the General Public Director and
  Head of Local Council Salah District , clarifying our of view about these cases
  and our confirmation that these all lands laying in the Wadi Salah along path
  and way of the floods for that the lands are Governorate Property .
 Communicating and discussing with all responsible in the Taiz Governorate
  and Local Councils and

The Results :
According to Previous actions , the interviews , consultations and Others at
Least the results are as the following :

PAP1 : Because , This segment of the road widening has not been implemented
because it will be implemented in the future by the Local Council under its own
budget .

Therefore, no compensation is no required .

PAP2 : compensation is required for losing lease of the land in case he approves
the lease of that land to be paid or by providing him with new Waqaf land in the
near area accepted by him or voluntarily give up renounce before date : 31/
March / 2015 .

PAP3 : 4A has not been implemented because the cost is very high .

Accordingly , no compensation is no required .

Under 4B , no land was acquired because it is not part of IUDP interventions to
construct school .

Accordingly , no compensation is no required .

Under 4C , the road segment that was implemented on Wadi Salah Area
acquired of and is considered as Government property according to law of land
planning .

Therefore , no compensation is no required .



                                       11
        PAP4 : the road segment that was implemented on Wadi Salah Area acquired of
        and is considered as Government property according to law of land planning .

        Therefore , no compensation is no required .
        III) Al Nour Contract ( Works 2&3 )- Al Mudaffar Distract
        &    Al Hraziah Contract ( Works 4 & 5 )- Salah Distract:
        Five PAPs that voluntarily donated part of their lands for roads widening and do
        not expect to receive compensations . Three PAPs in Madinat Al-Noure contract
        ( works 2 & 3 )and two PAPs in Al-Harazia contract ( works 4 & 5( .as the
        following table :
(ii)        Families who voluntarily donated part of their lands for road widening without compensation requests in Madinate Al Nore Area+Al Haraziah and Al Arose Area




                                     No. of                         Existing      Total Area   Area Acquired       Percent Area Signature or thump
       S.N.           PAP                         Owners Name                                                                                                 Comments
                                    Persons                         Structure   (meter square) (meter square)      Acquired (%) print of land owner

                                       -1                                                                                                                 Less than 10% of
                                                                                                                                                          total Area for road
        1          Person (1)                    Tareq Alnegashy       Land           500               40               8
                                                                                                                                                               widening
                                Land owner                                                                                                                 ( Madinate Al Nore )

                                       -1                                                                                                                  Less than 10% of
                                                                                                                                                          total Area for road
        2          Person (1)                     Gamil Aldubaey       Land           800               70              8.75
                                                                                                                                                               widening
                                  Land owner                                                                                                              ( Madinate Al Nore )

                                       -1                                                                                                                 More than 10% of
                                                                                                                                                          total Area for road
        3          Person (1)                   Qaid Ahmed Nagy        Land          1200              150              12.5
                                                                                                                                                               widening
                                  Land owner                                                                                                               ( Madinate Al Nore )

                                                                                                                                                           Less than 10% of
                                       -1
                                                                                                                                                          total Area for road
                                                  Ahmed Noman
        4          Person (1)                                          Land          307.5              21               7                                     widening
                                                    Alqadasy
                                   Land owner                                                                                                             ( Al Haraziah and Al
                                                                                                                                                                 Arose )
                                                                                                                                                           Less than 10% of
                                       -1
                                                      Nabil                                                                                               total Area for road
        5          Person (1)                     Abdulhameed          Land          20000             200               1                                    widening
                                   Land owner        Beshr                                                                                                ( Al Haraziah and Al
                                                                                                                                                                 Arose )




                                                                                         12
Annexes Of Tables :




         13
   Fatimah Mohammed Mahmud
   Application form of case study




  Nazirah Ahmed Mahmud
Application form of case study


              14
Table Of Two Cases In Al Maftash



           15
Table Of Four Cases In Al-Haraziah




              16
Table Of Five Voluntarily Cases



              17
Annexes Of Anther
  Documents :




        18
Fatimah Mohammed Mahmud :
    Negotiation Report




           19
Nazirah Ahmed Mahmud
   Negotiation Report


          21
          Fatimah Mohammed Mahmud
Confirm the receipt of compensation against land
                   accusation




                    21
          Nazirah Ahmed Mahmud
Confirm the receipt of compensation against land
                   accusation




                       22
Annexes Of Photographs :




           23
           Fatimah Mohammed Mahmud

small shanti (steel- zinc )box shop before removing




                       24
   Nazirah Ahmed Mahmud
front part of shop before removing




                25
Celebration party after the receipt of compensation
     against land acquisition by Mrs. Fatema
                    accusation




                         26
Mrs. Fatimah Mohammed Mahmud :

        In the new site



              27
project site after the receipt of compensation and removal of
                    Mrs. Nazira Ahmed shop



                            28
     Small shanti (steel- zinc )box shop before
                     removing




         In Her new small box shop - Now

29
                                              mall shanti (steel- zinc )box shop before
                                                              removing




          Nazirah Ahmed Mahmud front part of shop before
       Before                                            removing
                                                       Before

        After                                                 After




Nazirah Ahmed Mahmud project site after the receipt of compensation and removal

                                    31
