      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)



                                                                                                                     Report Number : ICRR0020040


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P107050                                                 RY-Integrated Urban Development

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Yemen, Republic of                                      Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                         Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-H5650                                              30-Sep-2015                                                                 23,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  25-May-2010                                            31-Mar-2015

                                                                IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                     Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                              22,000,000.00                                                              0.00

  Revised Commitment                                               14,151,314.68                                                              0.00

  Actual                                                           13,849,484.98                                                              0.00




 Sector(s)
 Sub-national government administration(40%):Urban Transport(17%):Water supply(16%):Wastewater Collection and
 Transportation(16%):General transportation sector(11%)

 Theme(s)
 Urban services and housing for the poor(60%):City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery(30%):Municipal governance and institution
 building(6%):Municipal finance(4%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                           ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Santhadevi Meenakshy                Fernando Manibog                      Christopher David Nelson             IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives


     Project Portal Project Development Objective (DO)
     The original objectives of the Project were to: (i) improve access to basic services in select informal settlements in urban areas in Taiz;
     and (ii) strengthen dialogue on a national framework for urban upgrading (Schedule 2, Financing Agreement 2010)
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)




      The revised objective of the Project was to improve access to basic services in informal settlements in three urban areas in Taiz.
      (Schedule 1, Financing Agreement 2014)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     Yes


     Date of Board Approval
     18-Apr-2014


c.   Components
     A: Component 1: Infrastructure in Taiz (Appraisal estimate US$18 million and Actual cost US$13.08 million)
     Pre-restructuring
     This component aimed to finance goods, works, and consultant services for upgrading of public infrastructure in selected settlements in
     Taiz, including road and pedestrian ways, water, drainage and sewage systems, and street lighting.
     Post- restructuring December 2012
     The ICR does not mention any change to the overall scope of the component. There was a partial cancellation from US$15.00 million to
     US$11.5 million due to a decline in the financing needs.
     Post-restructuring April 2014
     As part of this restructuring, the rehabilitation of the Geography Information System (GIS) building was dropped due to lack of progress
     and the support from social expert for the ongoing infrastructure investments, which was considered no longer relevant, was discontinued.
      But the funding allocation for civil works was increased, resulting in an increase of the overall component cost to US$13.08 million.
     B: Component 2: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity-Building (Appraisal estimate US$2.00 million and Actual cost US$0.40
     million)
     Pre-restructuring
     This Component aimed to finance the procurement of goods, training and consultant services in two areas. The first area was to support
     the dialogue on a national framework for urban upgrading. This involved identifying an appropriate line ministry, strengthening the
     knowledge base on informal settlements, establishing guidelines for identifying areas in need of upgrading, and developing a short and
     medium-term plans for investment planning, implementation of an awareness-raising campaign and building capacity. The second was to
     build up the capacity of the Taiz Government to carry out urban upgrading. This included establishment of and support for a core
     Geography Information System (GIS) unit in the Governor’s office, development of a public land inventory and information technology
     systems, and provision of goods to the Taiz Governorate to operate the Accounting Financial Management Information System (AFMIS).
     Post restructuring 2012
     As part of this restructuring, support to the General Authority for Land, Survey and Urban Planning (GALSUP) for the State Land
     Management Pilot in Taiz was cancelled, thus reducing costs to US$1.9 million.
     Post Restructuring April 2014
     As part of this restructuring, support to two activities were cancelled due to non-performance, reducing the component cost to US$0.4
     million from US$2.00 million. The cancelled activities included: (i) dialogue on a national framework for urban upgrading through
     identification of an appropriate line ministry; and (ii) provision of equipment for the Accounting-Based Financial Management Information
     System (AFMIS) in Taiz Governorate to provide increased fiscal transparency by posting approved budget allocations and budget
     execution reports on the website of Ministry of Finance. The former activity started to lose relevance against the revised DO and its
     underperformance could be attributed to some extent to the transitional nature of the government. The latter activity continued to be
     relevant to the revised DO and its cancellation due to non-performance created a dent in the fiscal transparency element of the
     development outcome.
     C: Component 3: Project Management (Appraisal estimate US$1.30 million Actual cost US$ 0.70 million.)
      Pre-restructuring
     This component aimed to finance the provision of goods, training, consultant services, and the incremental operating costs of the Project
     Implementation Unit to support project coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and management.
     Post restructuring 2012
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)



    There was no shift in the overall scope of the component. Project funds were reallocated to accommodate the higher costs of
    administering a restructured project.
    Post Restructuring April 2014
    Project management cost was reduced to US$0.7 million. As part of restructuring, the Project Implementation Unit was substantially
    reduced resulting in lower operating costs and procurement needs.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project Cost:
    The total project cost at appraisal was US$22 million, of which the original IDA commitment was US$20.8 million. At project
    closure, US$14.18 million was financed by IDA, with no Borrower contribution. (Annex 1 ICR).
    Financing:
    The original IDA commitment was US$22 million. As part of the first restructuring, an amount of US$4.12 million equivalent was
    cancelled, given the reduced scope of the project activities. As part of second restructuring, US $3.70 million was cancelled due to a
    further reduction in the project’s scope. The two cancellations totaled to a sum of US$ 7.82 million, resulting in the revised commitment of
    US$14.18 million.
    During the project duration, the Yemen portfolio was subjected to two IDA disbursement suspensions, which substantially affected project
    implementation and management. In 2011, the Bank withheld withdrawal applications for several weeks before the official disbursement
    suspension on July 28, 2011. The suspension extended beyond six months (July 2011 to January 2012), during when the Bank could not
    provide clearances. In the case of the second suspension in 2015, the Bank temporarily halted the processing of withdrawal applications
    from late-January 2015, well before the official disbursement suspension on March 11, 2015.
    Borrower Contribution:
    The Borrower did not make any contribution, compared to the original estimate of US$1.20 million, which was due to the failing political
    stability and increased national conflict from 2011.
    Dates:
    The project was restructured twice – in December 27, 2012 and April 18, 2014. As part of the second restructuring, the project closing
    date was revised from September 30, 2015, to March 31, 2015. The project closed on March 31, 2015 five months earlier than planned.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Original PDO
   Modest
   At the time of project preparation, there was no national policy for informal settlements and the Government did not pay much attention to this
   issue. As such, there was no integrated planning and all interventions were undertaken by the local or national governments in an ad-hoc
   manner. The development objective (DO) of the project was relevant in demonstrating benefits of an integrated approach to urban upgrading
   at the local level which had started to assume priority within the Yemeni context.
   The project’s development objectives were consistent with the overall Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Yemen (FY2010-13). The four
   overarching goals of the CAS were to: (i) accelerate economic growth through private sector-led diversification; (ii) enhance governance; (iii)
   improve living conditions and social indicators; and (iv) manage natural resource scarcity and natural risks. The project activities supported the
   third and fourth goals of the CAS through improving living conditions of the urban poor and population at risk. This support was also aligned
   with the Government’s Development Plan for Poverty Reduction (DPPR) which provided a prioritized framework for actions focusing on: (i)
   poverty alleviation; (ii) protection of the environment; and (iii) provision of basic services.
   At closure, access to improved basic services component of the DO was coherent with the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for 2013-2014. It
   contributed to address Yemen’s vulnerability on informal housing, and basic infrastructure by expanding investments through strengthening its
   management and enhancing governance and local service delivery (Pillar 3 of the ISN).
   However, the focus of the DO related to strengthening the dialogue on a national framework for urban upgrading, was not directly linked to
   third and fourth goals of the CAS or to those of the DPPR at the time of conception. Further, the subject objective mainly targeted to address
   the weak capacity and overlooked the fragility of the national context, which was highlighted in the Yemen CAS (2010-2013).
   Revised PDO
   Substantial
   The revised project objectives, although reduced in its overall scope, was relevant to the existing national environment, when the need for
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)



       basic services started to become even more stringent. It aligned with the Pillar 3 of the 2012 Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for 2013-2014 in
       enhancing local service delivery. The DO appropriately contributed towards the local service delivery in the three selected informal settlements
       of Taiz and addressed the general dissatisfaction with poor service delivery, which was one of the main reasons in the 2011 uprising (p.15
       ICR). By 2014 rates of poverty and the number of internally displaced people who required access to basic services in informal settlements
       had grown and would remain high due to the continued internal strife to date.
       Dropping the second sub-objective of the original DO during the second restructuring was appropriate, though delayed. The two activities
       under the second sub-objective, namely the dialogue on urban upgrading and provision of equipment for the Accounting-Based Financial
       Management Information System (AFMIS) in Taiz Governorate were non-performing even at the time of first restructuring, and if cancelled at
       that time, would have simplified the project scope, and freed up associated financial and human resources sooner. However, IEG notes that
       the latter continued to be pertinent to the revised DO and dropping it raises questions on how fiscal transparency would be achieved.




       Rating                                                                             Revised Rating
       Modest                                                                             Substantial


   b. Relevance of Design

       Original Design
       Modest
       The project design was weak in terms of achieving the DO. While the overall technical design of infrastructure was sound, the design of the
       policy-related sub-component of the second component was too ambitious. It overlooked the need for inter-governmental cooperation in a
       fragile context, where the government was on a transitional mode. In this regard, the design did not also accurately assess the need for an
       implementation arrangement that could take forward the policy angle, given the infrastructure background of the Project Implementation Unit
       (PIU). Further, the lack of stakeholder consultations deterred the project from generating the much needed ownership and linkages with the civil
       society on the project objective and the proposed design in a conflict-ridden environment.
       Although the design of the results framework was broadly adequate to track progress, it was weak in terms of the quality and quantity of the
       indicators, and the causal linkages between implementation progress and the reality on the ground.
       Revised Design
       Rated: Modest
       As part of the second restructuring, the design was revisited to enable achievement of the new DO, which focused on infrastructure
       development. The overall design of the first component was reduced in scope and the activities related to national dialogue and AFMIS in Taiz
       Governorate were cancelled. However, the latter activity related to Accounting-Based Financial Management Information System (AFMIS) in
       Taiz Governorate continued to be relevant to the revised DO and its cancellation raises important issues on how the fiscal transparency
       element of the development outcome would be achieved.
       The revised results framework fully captured the reality on the ground and was adequate to track the project progress in achieving the DO.




       Rating                                                                             Revised Rating
       Modest                                                                             Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)



Objective
Original Objective
Efficacy is assessed for the two original objectives and the revised objective for the entire implementation period. IEG notes that the
revised objective is the same as the first of the original objectives, while specifying the number of three urban areas.

The original objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve access to basic services in select informal settlements in urban areas in Taiz; and
(ii) to strengthen dialogue on a national framework for urban upgrading (Schedule 2, Financing Agreement 2010).

Rationale
Original Narrative
(a) Improve access to basic services in select informal settlements in urban areas in Taiz
The first original objective and the revised objective are essentially the same and hence not validated and reported separately. Further, IEG
also notes that, according to the results framework reported in the ICR, achievement of original targets were made only in November 2014
after the second restructuring was completed in April 2014. IEG’s assessment of the achievements under the original and revised targets is
presented below.
Original (and Revised)
Substantial
Outputs
1) 24,400 people in targeted areas were provided with access to improved sanitation (Original target was 23,621—achieved 103%. Revised
target was 19.500--achieved 125%)
2) 18,500 people in targeted areas were provided with access to improved water supply (Original target was 15,600—achieved 119%.
Revised target was 19,600—achieved 95%)
3) 21, 000 people in targeted areas were provided with access to all season roads within 500 meter range (Original target was 18,950—
achieved 111%. Revised target was 19,500--achieved 107%)
4) 3,030 households were connected to the public sewerage network (Original target was 3,654—achieved 83%. Revised target was
2,100—achieved 144%)
5) 2,045 households were connected to the public water network (Original target was 2,400—achieved 85%. Revised target was 1,600—
achieved 128%)
6) 20.25 km of roads and pedestrian pathways were paved (Original target was 7.24 km—achieved 274%. Revised target was 20 km—
achieved 101%)
7) 25,000 were direct beneficiaries (Target was 9,500 as established at the first restructuring—achieved 128%)
8) 47% were female beneficiaries (Target was 47% as established at first restructuring--achieved 100%)
9) Report on the current situation of informal settlements and need for urban upgrading in Yemen was developed. (Achieved)
Outcome
Increased access to basic infrastructure to three informal settlements of Al–Maftash, Medinat Al-Noor, and Al Hazariya in Taiz. Up to
25,000 people living in the Tiaz settlements benefitted from improved basic services.




Rating
Modest




Revised Objective
The revised objective was “to improve access to basic services in informal settlements in three urban areas in Taiz ( Schedule 1 Financing
Agreement 2014).




Revised Rationale
Revised Narrative
The revised objective was essentially identical to the first of two original objectives and hence not repeated here. The assessment is
presented under original objective (a) above and given a substantial rating.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)



    To conclude IEG notes the following. While the quantitative targets were substantially achieved, the performance of the project occurred
    within a highly fragile environment, which posed several challenges. There was a low disbursement resulting from delayed IDA clearances.
    There was also bid cancellation/retendering due to increases in the prices of goods and postponement of the supervision contract award, in
    addition to weak implementation arrangements. These permeated the project until the second restructuring in 2014. With the cancellation of
    non-performing activities and related allocations, a revision of the DO, as well as changes to implementation arrangements, the three
    ongoing civil works contracts were completed with the support of the consultant contracted for works supervision. The report on the current
    situation of informal settlements and need for urban upgrading in Yemen was also finally completed.
    With regard to the reliability of the quantitative indicators, the ICR team entirely depended on the information provided by the Project
    Implementation Unit (PIU). Both the ICR team and the Third Party Monitoring (TPM) firm were unable to travel to project locations to
    validate the information provided by PCU due to heightened security. There was also no clarity whether the project-supported investments
    were affected by the ongoing military conflict (p.17, ICR). However, even with the foregoing challenges, it is credible that project-led
    investments have improved access to basic services among the informal settlers of Taiz, given the negligibly lowor absent public
    infrastructure prior to project start-up, which was one of the main reasons for the 2011 uprising (p.15 ICR). As such, the political instability
    is highlighted throughout the ICR as the main factor that detracted from full achievement of the objectives, particularly the strengthening the
    national framework for urban upgrading.




    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     (b) To strengthen dialogue on a national framework for urban upgrading

    Rationale
    Negligible
    There are no outputs or outcomes for this original objective, since it was not implemented after being cancelled as part of second
    restructuring due to non-performance.




    Rating
    Negligible




    Revised Objective
    This objective was cancelled in the restructuring.

    Revised Rationale




    Revised Rating
    Not Rated/Not Applicable




   5. Efficiency
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)




 Modest
 Ex-ante economic analysis indicated an ERR that varied between 11.68% and 46.5% among the three settlements at Al –Maftash, Medinat
 Al-Noor, and Al Hazariya (p.12, Project Appraisal Document). The ex-post analysis recorded an ERR range of 15.68% to 37.44%. Medinat Al-
 Noor ranked highest with the ERR of 37.44%, followed by 32.43% in Al Hazariya, and 15.68% in Al –Maftash—with an average ERR of
 28.51% at closure and an NPV of US$6.96 million.
 The ERR and the NPV were calculated applying a 10 % discount rate, which the estimated proxy for Yemen’s opportunity cost of capital.
 While the appraisal estimate of NPV was to range from US$2.2 million to US$20.3 million, the NPV at closure ranged from about US$1.0
 million to US$11.8 million for the three informal settlements. Given the difficulty of verifying benefit data on the ground and the probability that
 benefits could be even lower, an additional scenario of a 25 percent lower increase in net benefits was considered. The results indicated that
 the average ERR, under this scenario, would be 22.19%.
 Further, the same net benefit indicator (‘unit value of land’) adopted at appraisal was applied for the economic analysis of the ICR. While
 improved roads, streets, street lighting, drainage and sewers would benefit the unit price of land, this was not validated at project closure as
 the client was unable to provide the required data on the unit market price per square meter of land in the respective project areas. In addition,
 Yemen’s overall economic activity decreased due to the civil war, generating high rates of unemployment.
 It was difficult for the client, including their contractors, to adhere to the implementation schedule agreed at appraisal. Project administration
 was weakened due to weak capacity and operational constraints of the PIU and Taiz Local Authorities. The two disbursement suspensions
 and travel ban to project sites further aggravated the situation. Further, though the PIU awarded civil works contracts for the three project
 areas in December 2012, contracts for construction supervision were awarded only from June 2013 and continued until late February 2015.
 This contributed to the low disbursement level of 32.74% at the time of second restructuring.
 Given the limited evidence and uncertainties regarding the underlying assumptions considered to calculate economic returns, IEG rates
 efficiency as modest.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?              Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                               81.00
 Appraisal                                                                 37.50
                                                                                                               Not Applicable

                                                                                                               87.00
 ICR Estimate                                                              28.51
                                                                                                               Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The project was restructured twice and the original DO was revised at the second restructuring. Thus the second restructuring is therefore
considered as the transition point in rating the before and after restructuring periods. Further, IEG also noted that while the list of outputs and
outcomes of the DO on access to basic services was similar to those in the original objective, their achievement was mainly after the second
restructuring in late 2014.
Ratings based on the original DOs: The relevance of the project objective is modest, and the relevance of design is also modest. The efficacy of
the original DOs is rated modest and negligible. Efficiency is rated modest. The outcome based on the original DOs is rated unsatisfactory.
Ratings based on revised DO: The relevance of the revised objective is substantial but the relevance of the revised design is modest. The
efficacy of the revised objective is substantial. Efficiency is rated modest.
Overall Outcome: At the time of Board approval of the second restructuring, 33% (32.74%) of the IDA funds had been disbursed. Given an
unsatisfactory rating for the original outcome (score of 2), its weighted value is (2 x 0.33 = 0.66). Considering a moderately satisfactory rating for
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)



the restructured outcome (score of 4), its weighted value is (4 x 0.67) = 2.68. Together these sum up to 3.34 (3), which yields an overall outcome
rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory.




a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Unsatisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating



 The Taiz Local Authorities were expected to take responsibility for providing improved water supply and sanitation including its operation and
 maintenance, and to maintain all season roads within a 500 meter range, as provided by the project. However, the ongoing military conflict in
 Yemen has led to the closure of local government offices. There is no clarity whether project infrastructure investments were affected by the
 conflict. It is also unclear if and when the Taiz Local Authorities can assume responsibility for the post-completion operation of project
 investments. Yemen’s ongoing conflict will continue to affect local government’s institutional and financial capacity to operate and maintain
 the project’s assets.




a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       High


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     There were little or no stakeholder consultations at entry. Although the Project Appraisal Document recorded the low capacity of the country, it
     did not adequately assess the fragility of the operating environment, which would generate important implications for project implementation.
     The Bank preparation team fell short of distinguishing the fragile nature of the national environment. According to the task team leader, the
     project was prepared with the technical focus on slum upgrading within a weak capacity environment and did not take adequate account of
     fragility". The Bank team also overlooked the low probability of supporting the dialogue on a national framework for urban upgrading in a
     volatile political situation. Thus, the second original DO and fell short of realism. The identified risks were related to the poor condition of
     infrastructure in a low capacity environment rather than in a fragile context and proposed technical assistance to improve the capacity
     deficiency, with no measures to mitigate the risk of implementation delays. The engineering designs of civil works for the three project sites,
     though technically sound, were not ready at appraisal. The mechanism for the dialogue on the national urban upgrading framework was not
     finalized at appraisal. This significantly affected project readiness, and contributed to the project’s substantial implementation and
     disbursement delays. The Bank did conduct adequate due diligence on safeguard aspects. While the design of the results framework was
     adequate to track progress, the quality and quantity of the indicators were weak.




     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Supervision was plagued with infrequent and unpredictable mission cancellations, and travel bans outside the capital city of Sana’a. Despite
     this extremely challenging operating environment, the Bank provided implementation support to the project, including through locally-based
     team members and task team leaders. According to the task team leader, during parts of supervision, some of the task team leaders and team
     members brought in their experience from West Bank and Gaza, while others used their local experience from Yemen. Of the total 10 ISRs
     that were filed, five were based on desk reviews because only five supervision missions were conducted during the project’s implementation
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)



  period of four and half years. Two of these five missions took place during the project’s last five months of implementation. There was also a
  seventeen-month gap between June 2013 and November 2014 in undertaking field visits during missions. The Bank staff depended on PIU
  reports and only in November 2014 were they able to carry out a field visit and prepare an aide memoire. Throughout implementation, the Bank
  maintained a dialogue with the Government and the implementing entity, conducted due diligence on fiduciary and safeguard aspects, and
  monitored risks. The late conduct of the procurement post-reviews led to implementation delays and identification of solutions as it emerged.
  The candor and quality of reporting in the Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) were weak and overlooked reporting on the
  critical issues that hampered achievement of the DOs. The midterm review mission was delayed. This created a lag in addressing poor project
  performance and distinguishing between factors related to the unforeseeable 2011 Yemen crisis (thus beyond the project’s control), and factors
  within the project’s control that required remedial action. This is particularly relevant in the case of the second restructuring that was carried out
  only few months before project closure.



  Quality of Supervision Rating
  Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  The Government, the Taiz Governorate and the Local Council recognized the high relevance of the project development objective within
  the national priority to improve the living conditions of the urban poor living in the informal settlements and were supportive of the project
  since its conception. They supported the innovative and integrated urban upgrading approach followed by the project and effectively
  adopted the participatory approaches towards project implementation and public service provision. Though there were changes in the
  ruling parties and political situation continued to remain volatile, the project implementation was completed on time. However, the lack of
  support for the Accounting-based Financial Information System (AMFIS) prevented the achievement of fiscal transparency, a critical factor
  particularly during a transitional phase. While the non-performance and cancellation of the dialogue on national framework can be
  attributed to the challenges posed in identifying an appropriate line ministry during the transitional period, the non-performance and
  cancellation of AFMIS in the Taiz Governorate constitutes a critical weakness in Government performance.




  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  Initially, the PIU showed due diligence in preparing the Terms of Reference and procurement plans. The PIU communicated with the
  stakeholders including the civil society on sub-project priorities and project proposed behavioral changes such as collection of fees and
  charges for services. However, in terms of other initial implementation tasks, it fell short of developing the engineering designs for sub-
  projects in the three informal settlements by appraisal. This delayed project readiness and created disbursement lags. Project
  implementation was plagued with delays due to political instability and subsequent weak performance of the PIU. Procurement was
  affected by delays, and construction supervision contracts were only awarded six months after the civil works. PIU did not adequately use
  the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system to prepare regular progress reports. In addition, the need to coordinate project implementation
  and safeguard compliance, in an environment of reduced staffing at the PIU, overburdened the Taiz local authorities. The PIU fell short of
  proactively supporting project implementation after the disbursement suspension was lifted in 2012. Implementation of Component 2
  activities did not progress. Though partially due to Yemen’s unstable political and security situation, it also highlighted lack of proactivity by
  the PIU. Implementation arrangements were revised as part of first restructuring in December 2012. The Project Director’s position in the
  Taiz-based PIU was changed to a Project Manager in a Project Management Unit. A new Project Director was designated for all ongoing
  urban sector projects at the Sana’a- based Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the Ministry of Public Works and Highways. PCU failed
  to prepare the Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan (ARAP), obtain clearance from the Bank, and implement the approved Abbreviated
  Resettlement Action Plan (ARAP) before initiating the relevant sub-project works.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The design of the results framework (RF) included three outcome indicators and six intermediary outcome indicators to measure progress. With
   regard to the objective on strengthening the dialogue for a national urban upgrading framework, there was no specification provided regarding
   the quality assessment or follow-up actions to strengthen the dialogue. The associated intermediary outcome indicators focused on the existing
   upgrading situation and land inventory in Taiz, and overlooked qualitative aspects and/or follow-up actions. Furthermore, the design of M&E
   ignored the need for impact evaluations.




b. M&E Implementation
   M&E implementation was slow and data was not reported in a timely manner. For instance, indicator progress was only reported from April
   2014 in the ISR – 15 months after the first restructuring, 43 months after project effectiveness, and one year before project closure (p. 12,
   ICR). The reporting was partial with only selected intermediate indicators included in the ISRs. Further, there was no clarity whether progress
   was monitored by the client and/or achieved. There was no reports to reflect qualitative data on the benefits from project investments.
   According to the ICR, post-MTR progress reports were the only source of implementation progress related to procurement, financial
   management, and safeguards compliance.




c. M&E Utilization
   The PIU used the data to track outputs implementation progress and follow up with contractors.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   Environment:
   The project triggered Operational Policy 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and was classified as a Category “B” project. The Bank
   monitored compliance with environmental safeguards regularly and considered environmental compliance as adequate (p.12, ICR). The
   sub-projects were in line with the prepared safeguards documents and addressed environment safeguards as agreed with the Bank. Third
   party monitoring reports as well as on-site monitoring reports revealed non-compliance with worker safety standards and lack of personal
   protection equipment in some construction sites. Post MTR, the Bank stepped up supervision of compliance with respect to worker safety
   measures, as well as adequate and regular on-site monitoring and reporting. However, physical verification of compliance was not carried
   out due to restrictions on travel outside of Sana’a. Therefore, no safeguard compliance report was submitted to the Bank at the close of the
   project.
   Social:
   The project triggered Operational Policy 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. Some of the sub-projects required completion of engineering
   designs, which were delayed beyond appraisal. In addition, at the time land tenure was uncertain and land management was weak. To
   ensure compliance, a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared and disclosed as part of appraisal. The Resettlement Policy
   Framework (RPF) mandated the need for developing a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) or Abbreviated RAP (ARAP) during implementation
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)



   in case any land acquisition, resettlement and/or compensation were required under the project.
   Implementation required land acquisition from 10 individuals/families for road widening starting in May 2013. The PIU endorsed land
   acquisition without preparing an ARAP. The Bank was notified about this only in December 2014 after all the related works and activities
   were completed. The Bank then required the PIU to prepare a Land Acquisition Review Report with details of issues, amount of land
   acquired, affected persons, compensation and respective documentation. The Bank received the report in January 2014. The report, as
   well as the documents were considered adequate. The report was subsequently disclosed in-country and at the Info Shop. During
   implementation, overall safeguards compliance was predominantly rated Moderately Unsatisfactory (p.12, ICR).




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management:
   Financial Management (FM) was adequate (p.14, ICR). The PCU maintained sufficient FM staff and established adequate internal control
   procedures based on the FM manual. Monthly bank reconciliation statements were submitted and fixed assets register with the required data
   was maintained. The PCU used an automated accounting system to prepare the Financial Statements to be audited and submitted to the Bank
   annually. Quarterly Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) were reviewed by the project’s external auditor. The Bank received and found the IFRs to
   be acceptable (p. 15, ICR). The PCU contracted “Fadhl Sabri” as an external auditor for FY2014. External audit reports for FY2013, FY2014
   and FY2015 (Q1-Q2) were submitted on time. The auditor rendered unqualified (clean) opinions. Throughout implementation, FM compliance
   was continuously rated Satisfactory (p.15, ICR).
   Procurement:
   Procurement was consistent with the World Bank “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004, revised in
   October 2006 and January 2011, and “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004,
   revised in October 2006 and January 2011, and the provisions stipulated in the Project Financing Agreement (p.13, ICR). The procurement plan
   documented IDA-financed contracts, consultant selection and procurement methods, estimated costs and timeframe. The procurement plan was
   updated based on the implementation requirements. During implementation, procurement challenges emerged from changes in the
   implementation arrangements, weak institutional capacity, delays in preparation and tendering of civil works, goods and services. According to
   the task team leader, there were several changes of decision makers within the Ministry, which led to additional layers for review and in some
   cases challenged the PIU decision. Slow procurement processing by the PIU and delayed response from the Bank to requests for “no
   objection”, especially during the later stages of project implementation, contributed to project implementation delays. According to the task team
   leader, on the Bank’s side, there was a high turnover of task team leaders during implementation with different approaches, and handover was
   not always optimal. This led to instances of delays in no objection. Post-MTR, the project was adequate in terms of transparency and
   accountability. Procurement compliance was predominantly rated Moderately Satisfactory (p.13, ICR).




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   NONE




d. Other
   NONE




12. Ratings
                                                                                                             Reason for
Ratings                                 ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                             Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory         ---
Risk to Development Outcome             High                               High                              ---
                                                                                                             Quality at entry rated U and quality
Bank Performance                        Moderately Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                             at supervision rated MU
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)



Borrower Performance                      Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory          ---
Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR provided the following main lessons:
(1) Identifying stakeholder incentives through a political economy analysis is critical to generate ownership of project and optimize its
design.
 In the subject project, stakeholder consultation would have highlighted Yemen’s fragility, established the urgency for national dialogue on urban
upgrading and allowed for better gauging of appropriateness and Government ownership regarding the matter. The analysis report would have
also clarified the nature of the operating environment and supported the need for a fragility-led project preparation and implementation design
rather than a low capacity approach.
(2) Informed restructuring should be considered as a key tool in implementation support rather than as a last resort.
The project lagged in progress partially due to the internal conflict in Yemen and due to weak capacity of the implementing agency. The project
underwent two restructurings. An informed restructuring could have cancelled non-performing activities, e.g., at the time of the first restructuring,
rather than during the second restructuring, which was towards project closure. This would have simplified the project scope and freed up
associated financial and human resources.
(3) Adapting the Bank’s operational approach to better fit a Fragility, Conflict and Violence (FCV) context would allow for more
flexibility and facilitate proactivity.
The Bank used standard mechanisms for implementation support and performance assessment through traditional procedures for the subject
project. But, instead it should have considered adjusting its operational approach to a Fragility, Conflict and Violence (FCV) context through
specific tools that allow for more flexible and proactive project monitoring, supervision, restructuring, and performance assessment. The task
teams should have conducted more regular and frequent supervision through videoconferences, and/or audio conferences rather than project
reviews via reverse missions for the subject project. Back-up mechanisms could be specified in the Operational Manual to preempt issues, e.g.,
by adding provisions to avoid rebidding in cases of large cost increases between bidding and contract implementation, and establishing back-up
arrangements for reporting and reaching out to beneficiaries.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR



 The ICR provides an extensive report on project investments and problems faced. The reporting of the ICR is consistent and reflects a
 logical framework. The section on lessons learned is evidence-based and comprehensive. Results reporting follows a causal chain, linking
 project preparation with implementation and completion. In this regard, the results framework also substantiates the achievement of target
 values, and the ICR provides explanations and insights into process. Stakeholders are well defined and the ICR reports their participation in
 various segments of the project cycle. The ICR records poverty, gender and social elements. Safeguard and fiduciary compliance are
 reported with evidence and clarity. The ICR does not include a Borrower ICR, but it records comments.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)          Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       RY-Integrated Urban Development (P107050)




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
