w ~~~_
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  4377-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 18, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =      Rs  23
Rs  1          =      US$ 0.04348
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I bushel (bu) of paddy                =          46.00  lb
1 kilogram (kg)                       =           2.205 lb
1 acre (ac)                           =           0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                           =           1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq.mi)                 =         640.00  ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)                           -          30.50  centimeters (cm)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           - Agricultural Development Bank
AE&AR         - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
AI            - Artificial Insemination
ASC           - Agrarian Service Center
BC            - Bank of Ceylon
DA            - Department of Agriculture
DAPH          - Department of Animal Production and Health
DAS           - Department of Agrarian Services
DLGS          - Department of Local Government Services
DM            - District Minister
ERR           - Economic Rate of Return
GA            - Government Agent
COSL          - Government of Sri Lanka
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
GPS           - Guaranteed Price Schemes
IDA          - International Development Agency
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
IFAD         - International Fund for Agricultural Development
LS            - Lump Sum
- Million
O&M           - Operation and Hfaintenance
PB            - People's Bank
PCC          - Proi,ect Coordination Committee
PD           - Project Director
PS            - Prudent Shopping
PV            - Present Valuje
PW            - Present Worth



(ii)             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RDD          - Regional Developme
RDP          - Rural Development Project
RT)PSC        - Rural Development Project Steering Committee
SCF          - Standard Conversion Factor
SDR          - Special Drawing Rights
T&V          - Training and Visit
VIRP          - Village Irrigationa Rehabilitation Project
GLOSSARY
anicut        - diversion scheme
asweddumized - levelled and bunded land suitable for impounding water
chena        - shifting (slash and burn) cultivation
district     - principal administrative unit in the country;
there are 24 districts in Sri Lanka
Maha          - northeast monsoon season (October to February)
Paddy        - unhusked rice
tank         - impounding reservoir for irrigation
yala         - southwest monsoon season (April to September)
GOSL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






(iii)
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. SECTORAL  CONTEXT ........................................                                 1
Background ..............................................                                1
General .................................................                                1
Agriculture .............................................                                2
Objectives and Strategy for Future Agriculture and
Rural  Development .......................................                               2
Bank Group Support to Rural Development .................    3
II. THE  PROJECT  AREA ........................................                                4
General  Features ........................................                               4
Land Use ................................................                                5
The Agriculture  Sector ..................................                               6
Fisheries  Sector ........................................    11
Economic  Infrastructure .................................    12
Social  Infrastructure ...................................    13
III. THE PROJECT .............................................    14
Objectives and Approach ........................                                        14
Project Components ........................                                             14
Main Project Features ........................                                          16
IV. PROJECT  COSTS, FINANCING  AND  PROCUREMENT ................    24
Project  Costs ...........................................    24
Financing ...............................................    26
Procurement .............................................    26
Disbursements ...........................................    27
Accounts  and  Audits .....................................    28
V. PROJECT  ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT .....................    28
Overall  Project Management ..............................    28
Project  Implementation ..................................    30
Operation  and Maintenance  (O&M) .........................    30



(iv)
Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................  31
Staff Training and Technical Assistance .................  31
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND
COST RECOVERY ...................                          32
Agricultural Impact ...................                    32
Marketing and Commodity Prices ..........................  34
Farm Income .............................................  35
Cost Recovery ...........................................  36
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................  38
General .................................................  38
Employment and Income Effects ...........................  39
Economic and Social Infrastructure ......................  39
Environmental Impact ....................................  39
Benefits to the Economy and Economic Analysis ...........  39
Project Risk and Sensitivity ............................  41
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED ......................................  42
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX  1   -  Cost Tables
Table A    - Project Component by Time
Table  B    - Mannar - Project Component by Time
Table  C    - Vavuniya - Project Component by Time
Table  1   - Vavuniya - Orchard Development
Table  2   - Mannar - Forestry
Table  3    - Vavuniya - Forestry
Table  4    - Mannar - Major Irrigation
Table  5   - Vavuniya - Major Irrigation
Table  6   - Mannar - Minor Irrigation
Table  7    - Mannar - Groundwater Development
Table  8   - Vavuniya - Groundwater Investigation
Table  9    - Mannar - Input Supplies
Table 10   - Vavuniya - Input Supplies
Table 11    - Mannar - Agricultural Credit
Table 12   - Vavuniya - Agricultural Credit
Table 13    - Mannar - Agriculture Adaptive Research and Training
Table 14    - Vavuniya - Agricultural Adpative Research and Training
Table 15    - Mannar - Livestock
Table 16    - Vavuniya - Livestock
Table 17    - Mannar - Fisheries Services
Table 18    - Mannar - Rural Electrification
Table 19    - Vavuniya - Rural Electrification
Table 20   - Mannar - Rural Roads



(v)
Table 21    -  Vavuniya - Rural Roads
Table 22    -  Mannar - Health
Table 23    -  Vavuniya - Health
Table 24    -  Mannar - Education
Table 25    -  Vavuniya - Education
Table 26    -  Mannar - Rural Water Supply
Table 27    -  Vavuniya - Rural Water Supply
Table 28    -  Mannar - Management and Coordination
Table 29    -  Vavuniya - Management and Coordination
Table 30    -  Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
ANNEX 2     -  Guidelines for Planning and Design of Rehabilitation
Works on Major and Minor Irrigation Schemes
ANNEX 3     -  Planning Consultants for Rehabilitation of Irrigation
Schemes - Draft Terms of Reference
ANNEX 4     -  Project Salient Features and Procurement Schedule
Table I     -  Major Irrigation Schemes - Salient Features
Table 2     -  Rural Electrification Schemes  - Salient Features
Table 3     -  Feeder and Rural Roads   - Salient Features
Table 4     -  Procurement Schedule for Vehicles and Equipment
ANNEX 5     -  Agricultural Credit - General Lending Terms and Conditions
ANNEX 6     -  Guidelines and Criteria for Rural Water Wells
ANNEX 7     -  Agency Responsibility for Project Implementation
Chart 1     -  Organization Chart
ANNEX 8     -  Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 1     -  Annual Crops, Cropping Intensities, Input Requirements
and Yields (per ha)
Table 2     -  Mannar and Vavuniya -  Plantations, Inputs Requirement
and Yield
Table 3     -  Mannar and Vavuniya - Farm Budget for Livestock Owners
Table 4     -  Prices Used for the Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 5     -  Farm Budget for Farmers on Major and Minor Irrigation Schemes
Table 6     -  Farm Budget for Farmers on Tubewells and Dug Wells
Table 7     -  Farm Budget for Planting Orchards
Table 8     -  Economic Rate of Return, Relative Importance of Project Cost,
Benefit Streams With Switching Values
Table 9     -  Economic Real Flow






SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Background
The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has successfully launched a number of
district level rural development projects (RDPs) as part of its strategy to
decentralize development planning and implementation, and to maximize local par-
ticipation in the process. These projects are multi-sectoral and relatively
complex. However, the existing decentralized political and administrative struc-
ture in Sri Lanka has proved effective in dealing with implementation problems
frequently associated with multi-sectoral projects. The proposed project would be
the seventh RDP undertaken by GOSL and represents a five-year time slice of
longer-term district development programs for MIannar and Vavuniya. The project
was prepared by departments and agencies of GOSL in consultation with local
institutions and leaders under the overall coordination of the Ministry of Plan
Implementation (MPI). Local consultants assisted in the initial stages of project
preparation, started in January 1980. Preparation reports were submitted to IDA
in October 1982 for its consideration with the view to start implementation in
early 1984. As in other on-going RDPs, the project is designed to promote
balanced and accelerated growth based on assessement of resources and development
priorities of the Districts. This report is based upon the findings of an
appraisal mission that visited Sri Lanka in November 1982, comprising G. Lituma,
A. Seager and M. Saeed (IDA) and Y. K. Murthy (Consultant).
General
1.02    Sri Lanka is endowed with relatively favorable resources and diverse
agro-climatic conditions that permit wide ranging agricultural pursuits. It also
possesses a highly literate population and has achieved considerable success in
curtailing population growth. Sri Lanka comprises a total area of about 65,600 sq
km, with a population of about 15 M (mid-1982).  About 76% of Sri Lanka's
inhabitants live in rural areas and are principally dependent, directly or
indirectly, on agriculture. Per capita GDP is about US$270 (1981 estimate).
During 1970-77, real GDP grew by only 2.9% p.a., but in contrast during 1978-82
growth accelerated to an average of 5.5% p.a., largely due to economic reforms.
Growth improved almost immediately following the introduction of the ambitious
1978 public investment program, and the economic liberalization accompanying it
that released the private sector from extensive pre-1977 controls. Expansion of
the investment program between 1977-82 was not complemented by significant
increase in national savings, necessitating large inflows of foreign capital to
finance large deficits in the budget and in the balance of payments. GOSL recog-
nizing these deficits could not be sustained over time, introduced major cuts in
budget allocations during 1980-81 and strengthened expenditure controls. Over
the next few years, annual investment levels will need to be controlled closely
and further policy changes introduced to restore economic balance in the economy.



-2-
These measures would include emphasis on quick-yielding investments to sustain
medium-term growth, while adjusting longer-term, large-scale investments to the
absorptive capacity of the economy.
1.03     Based on rainfall patterns, the Island can be divided into two major
zones: the wet zone (average annual rainfall of 1,900-2,500 mm) in the southwest
quadrant, and the dry zone (average annual rainfall of 900-1,900 mm) covering
about 64% of the Island. A narrow transition band between the dry and wet zones
is referred to as the intermediate zone. About three-quarters of the population
reside in the wet zone with an average population density of about 700 per sq km,
compared to only 80 per sq km in the dry zone. Until 1950, much of the population
growth took place in the wet zone. Therefore, GOSL has emphasized development
of the dry zone through major irrigation and settlement schemes, such as the
Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, which is scheduled to irrigate more than
100,000 ha by 1988. The proposed project would be located in the northwestern
part of the dry zone.
Agriculture
1.04    The agriculture sector, which employs about 50% of the labor force and
accounts for about 25% of GDP and 60% of export earnings, grew at an average
annual rate of 3.5% during 1978-80. W4hile paddy output steadily increased, mainly
due to improvements in producer incentives, production of plantation crops, the
main export earners fell due to a combination of management problems, abnormal
weather, adverse prices, and lack of production incentives. Following more
favorable weather conditions and the steady improvements in incentives in 1981,
agriculture as a whole recorded a 6.9% growth rate. Growth was particularly
encouraging in the paddy sector (7% p.a.) However, in 1982 the agricultural
sector suffered a serious setback, because of unfavorable weather conditions. Tea
and rubber production continued to decline, while paddy, in spite of recording
continuous expansion since 1978, also declined. Nevertheless, agriculture in 1982
grew by about 2.2% due to expansion of coconut, minor export crops, and subsidiary
food crops as well as forestry and fisheries. To stimulate agricultural produc-
tion and exports, GOSL has provided direct financial assistance to individual
farmers for planting/replanting tea, rubber, minor export crops, coconut, and
fruit trees. Fertilizers are subsidized, but such subsidies are gradually being
removed. GOSL also subsidizes milk and milk products, although this is being
reduced.
Objectives and Strategy for Future Agriculture and Rural Development
1.05    Principal objectives of GOSL's medium-term development program are to:
(a) increase employment and income levels in rural areas, particularly those of
economically disadvantaged people and educated youth; (b) achieve an agricultural
growth rate of 5.0% p.a. over tha next five years to attain food self-sufficiency
and better nutritional standards; and (c) expand export earnings from agricultural
exports such as tea, rubber, coconut, cocoa, coffee, spices and fruits. GOSL
strategy for achieving these objectives emphasizes: (i) maintaining appropriate



-3-
price incentives; (ii) strengthening agricultural supporting services such as
extension, research, credit, and marketing; (iii) improving input supply espe-
cially for seeds, plant materials, fertilizers and pesticides; (iv) expanding
and/or rehabilitating areas under plantations; (v) rehabilitatng existing irriga-
tion schemes, expanding irrigated areas and improving water management; (vi)
improving roads and expanding electrification; and (vii) decentralizing planning
and development.
1.06    In its effort to accelerate growth and improve rural living conditions,
GOSL designated the country's 24 districts as administrative units for planning
and development. Measures adopted by GOSL to implement this approach include:
(a) appointment of a District Minister and elected District Development Councils
and Village Development Councils to oversee planning and development in each
district; (b) provision for decentralized capital budgets; and (c) implementation
of rural development projects (RDP) in selected districts. District Ministers
are appointed by the President from elected members of Parliament. The decen-
tralizqd budget finances a limited number of small-scale capital works (generally)
costing less than Rs 500,000 each). Each fiscal year, each electorate receives
Rs 2.5 M for such projects.
1.07    As part of this decentralized development program, GOSL has been
implementing RDPs that include low-cost, quick-yielding, labor-intensive invest-
ments aimed at better utilizing existing infrastructure and development potential
of the districts. They attempt to respond to local developmental needs and
priorities and provide opportunities to achieve regional equity by balancing GOSL
investments in high capital cost projects, such as Mahaweli Ganga Development,
with lower-cost, quicker-yielding projects in areas that receive no significant
direct benefits from higher capital cost schemes.
Bank Group Support to Rural Development
1.08    The IDA-supported Kurunegala RDP (Cr. 891-CE) was the first district level
RDP implemented by GOSL in 1979. This was followed by the IDA-financed Second RDP
(Cr. 1079-CE) in Matale and Puttalam Districts. RDPs are also underway in Matara,
Hambantota, Nuwara Eliya, and Badulla Districts with financial assistance from
Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, and the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), respectively. In addition, RDPs are also under preparation
for Monoragala, Ratnapura and Kegalle. Each district development plan is prepared
after a field survey that takes into account leading sectors in need of investment
support to promote balanced and accelerated growth. Although investment by sector
vary among districts, main emphasis is given to income and employment generating
activities and improvement/rehabilitation of existing structures and services.
Given the multi-sectoral nature of RDPs, however, a great deal of flexibility in
investment planning and implementation is necessary. So far, institutional arran-
gements have been effective in coordinating activities within these relatively
complex projects and in providing the desired flexibility. There is need,
however, to improve monitoring and evaluation facilities at the central level.



-4-
Kurunegala RDP had some problems of quality control during the initial construc-
tion stage. Steps have been taken to remedy these shortcomings and results are
encouraging. In addition to the two IDA-financed RDPs, the Bank is the supervis-
ing agency for the IFAD-financed Badulla RDP. Progress reports for the three RDPs
show that most components are being implemented successfully.   Furthermore,
interim evaluation reports on the impact of the Kurunegala RDP show that this
project is already having favorable impact on the districts agricultural and
social sectors as well as on the decentralization process for planning and
implementing developmental activities at district level. However, extension of the
closing date of Kurunegala will be necessary, mainly to complete irrigation works.
Kurunegala and other on-going RDPs have provided valuable experience for designing
future RDPs, and lessons learned in the course of their implementation have been
incorporated in this proposed Third RD Project.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General Features
2.01    The proposed project would cover the Mannar and Vavuniya Districts, which
are among the poorest and least developed in Sri Lanka. Located in the northern
lowlands of the island, Mannar has an area of about 2,010 sq km and Vavuniya,
2,190 sq km. Population is sparse and unevenly distributed (107,000 in Mannar and
96,000 in Vavuniya). Densities are about 53 persons per sq km in Mannar and 44 in
Vavuniya, representing some of the lowest in Sri Lanka. In Mannar, there are
three perennial rivers of which the Aruvi Aru is the most important; most of its
dry season flow is diverted into the Giant's Tank which commands about 6,300 ha by
feeding about 160 minor tanks. In addition there are nine other major irrigation
schemes 1/ and about 200 minor schemes. Vavuniya has no major river that can be
tapped for irrigation. There are 14 major schemes and about 200 minor irrigation
schemes which depend mainly on rainfall.
2.02     Administratively, the Districts constitute one parliamentary electorate
each, with a Dlistrict Minister and four AGA divisions (administrative units unde
Assistant %overnment Agents) in each District. The rural population, 86% in
Mannar and 81% in Vavuniva, has low per capita income; over 50% of the population
in Mannar and Vavuniya are below the absolute poverty income level of about UJS$
110 (1991 estimate). In Mannar, agriculture and fisheries are the most important
sectors from the employment noint of view and in Vavuniya, agriculture. Given
their agro-climatic characteristics, cultivation in both Districts and fishing
activities in Mannar are confined to onlv one season. Employment is therefore
highly seasonal.
1/ Major irrigation schemes commanding over 80 ha and minor schemes 80 ha or
less.



-5-
2.03     Climate.  Rainfall in the two Districts is highly seasonal.  Mean annual
rainfall varies from 530 mm to 1,200 mm (at 75% probability level) in Mannar and
from 1,000 mm to 1,800 mm in Vavuniya of which about 80% falls during the northeast
monsoon (maha season). The seasonal rainfall significantly limits agricultural
production to only the maha season unless supplemental irrigation is provided.
Temperatures,however, are generally suitable for crop production throughout the
the year, provided moisture is available. Mean temperatures is relatively
low (200-250 C) in October-January, with significant diurnal
variation.
2.04     Soils and Groundwater Potential.  There are two soil types in inland
areas of Mannar: red-brown earths and low-humic gleys, both typical of the dry
zone.  Near the coast and on Mannar Island alluvia predominate: sandy on the
Island and maritime clay in the coastal mainland areas. A substratum of miocene
limestone in the coastal belt has considerable groundwater potential. Three
basins have been identified for groundwgater exploitation: Murunkan,
Mulankavil-Vellankulam, and Chilavathurai. About 200 deep tubewells were sunk
mainly in the Murunkan basin in 1975/76; 125 are now in operation, all in the
Murunkan basin. However, problems of saline intrusion from the sea constrain
further expansion in this area. Potential for a limited number of tubewells has
recently been confirmed in Mulankavil-Vellankulam basin. Investigations are still
to be completed for Chilavaturai basin. There are also a large number of open
wells in all parts of the District for drinking water and irrigation of small
gardens.
2.05    Soils in Vavuniya are red-brown earths and low-bumic gleys.  There are
some pockets of red-yellow latosols in the northern part of the District, which
are more fertile and have better groundwater potential than in the rest of the
District. The substrata, except in the north, consist mainly of hard crystalline
rocks with limited groundwater potential. There are about 3,000 shallow dug wells
with 4.5-7.5 m diameters and about 9 m depth. About 30% of households utilize
this groundwater to cultivate 0.2-1.0 ha of subsidiary foodcrops. Small farmers,
however, are financially constrained from exploiting these groundwater resources.
Land Use
2.06    Both Districts have a low proportion of cultivated land--about 9% in
Mannar and 12.6% in Vavuniya. Of the 21,600 ha used for agriculture in Mannar,
paddy accounts for 59%, while perennial crops (mango, citrus, coconut and pal-
myrah), account for 25%. Subsidiary food crops cover only 3% and other crops
account for the remaining area. Of the 27,100 ha used for agriculture in
Vavuniya, 63% is used for paddy. Subsidiary and other crops account for 37%.



-6-
2.07     Land use in the two Districts is as follows:
Table 2.1:  Land Use in Mannar and Vavuniya Districts
Mannar                     Vavuniya
% of Land                    % of Land
Agricultural Land            Area     Agric.  Total         Area   Agric.   Total
('000 ha)                      ('000 ha)
Paddy Land
Under Major Schemes         8.5       39.0    3.4           4.4       16.0      2.0
UJnder Minor Schemes        3.9        18.0    1.6         10.4       39.0     5.0
Rainfed/Lift Irrigation   0.4           2.0    0.2          2.2        8.0      1.0
12.8       59.0    5.2          17.0       63.0     8.0
Perennial Crops              5.4        25.0    2.2          -         -         -
Subsidiary Food Crops        0.7        3.0    0.3           9.2       34.0     4.2
Other Crops                  2.7        13.0    1.1          0.9        3.0     0.4
Subtotal Agric. Land    21.6        100.0    8.8          27.1     100.0    12.6
Forest                     186.4               75.2        104.0               47.4
Uncultivated                40.0               16.0         88.3               40.0
Total                  248.0               100.0        219.4              100.0
The Agricultural Sector
2.08    Land Tenure and Farm Size.  Mannar has predominance of small agricultural
holdings; about 55% of farmers operate holdings of less than 1.0 ha. In Vavuniya,
about 55% of the farmers operate holdings of less than 2.0 ha. In general, hold-
ings under major irrigation schemes are less than 1.5 ha, reflecting usual settle-
ment scheme allocations. Holdings under minor irrigation schemes are also small.
Larger holdings are usually located in rainfed areas with low levels of produc-
tivity. In both Districts, over half of holdings are owned by cultivators. About
40% are held on long leases from GOSL and few (about 10%) are rented from
individual owners. The following table shows the size distribution of operational
holdings:
Table 2.2: Land Tenure in Mannar and Vavuniya
Mannar                    Vavuniya
No of Farms      7           No of Farms      x
Less than 1.0 ha   6,400           55.0           3,600           27
1.0 - 2 ha         2,000          17.0           3,900          29
2 - 4 ha         2,400          21.0           4,100          30
Over 4 ha             900           8.0           1,900           14
Total        11 700         100.0          13,506         100
2.09     Agricultural Practices and Crop Yields.  Paddy is the most important crop
in the two Districts. Of the total asweddumized (levelled and hunded land



-7-
suitable for impounding water) paddy area of about 12,800 ha in Mannar, about
8,500 ha are under major irrigation schemes, 3,900 ha under minor schemes, and
about 400 ha under rainfed cultivation. In Vavuniya, of the total asweddumized
paddy area of about 17,000 ha, about 4,400 ha are under major irrigation schemes,
10,400 under minor schemes and about 2,200 ha under rainfed cultivation. Typi-
cally, 70%-80% of the total asweddumized land is cultivated during the maha
season.  In the southwest monsoon (yala), only about three percent of the total
area is cultivated, confined principally to major schemes. This compares
tnfavorably with irrigation schemes in other parts of the country. In Mannar,
paddy yields average about 3.0 MT/ha, comparing well with average national
figures. There are, however, wide yield variations depending on irrigation source
and rainfall. Yields reach about 4.0 MT/ha on irrigated areas under the Giant's
Tank; in rainfed areas, yields are only about 1.2 MT/ha. In Vavuniya paddy yields
are lower than in Mannar, averaging about 2.5 MT/ha. Although less drastic than
in Mannar, there are also wide yield variations, yields averaging as low as 1.0
MT/ha in rainfed areas. About 80% of paddy is planted with new improved varieties
and the balance, with old improved varieties. Due to shortages of certified seed,
especially during drier years, farmers generally keep their own seeds for at least
three seasons before acquiring new certified seed. Currently, paddy is mostly
broadcast, with transplanting practiced only on about 25% of area. About 55% of
farmers in the two Districts use fertilizer, although not necessarily up to recom-
mended levels.
2.10    Water from the Mahaweli Ganga will not reach Mannar District and will only
reach Vavuniya in the last phase of the Mahaweli Program; therefore rice produc-
tion in the two Districts will be mostly confined to maha for the foreseeable
future, since most of the tanks are not large enough to store sufficient water for
significant yala irrigation. The short-term and medium-term development potential
lies in increasing paddy output by making water supplies more reliable and expand-
ing the planted area by (a) improving distribution systems, (b) reducing con-
veyance losses, (c) introducing improved water management techniques, and (d)
increasing tank storage capacities. Experience elsewhere in Sri Lanka on very
similar soils indicates that, given adequate water supplies, over 4 MT/ha are
readily attainable and often exceeded.
2.11    At present, the bulk of subsidiary food crops and vegetables in both
Districts is cultivated in rainfed upland farms during the maha. Upland areas
grow pulses, sesame, sorghum, finger millet and maize. Where irrigation is avail-
able, chillies, bombay onions, shallots and various other vegetables are grown
during the two seasons. Orchard crops--bananas, citrus and mangoes--are slowly
gaining popularity in Vavuniya as markets develop; currently, they occupy about
three percent of the cropped area. To encourage area expansion of orchards, the
Department of Agriculture (DA) administers a financial assistance scheme for
farmer investment in new orchard plantings at the rate of Rs 7,900 per ha. In
Mannar, only about 350 ha of subsidiary food crops and almost no vegetables are
grown; 95% of consumption needs come from outside the District. Expansion of such



-8-
crops during yala is highly desirable, given the labor-intensive nature of produc-
tion and the severe unemployment in this season. Suitable land with adequate
irrigation water potential is available for such cultivation in both Districts.
2.12    Development potential in upland areas without supplementary irrigation is
limited; prospects lie in exploiting groundwater resources. In Mannar, investiga-
tions have identified potential tubewell fields (para 2.04), but further
groundwater use must be accompanied by careful monitoring of the water table to
prevent over-exploitation and permanent damage to the acquifer from saline intru-
sion. In Vavuniya, groundwater studies are yet to be implemented, but there is
sufficient evidence to support development of a limited number of shallow dug
wells. Existing wells do not generally provide year-round water for irrigation.
Thus the extent of vegetable cropping may be limited to about nine months. In
areas with lower-yielding wells, tree crops (mangoes, citrus) provide a good
cropping alternative, since little irrigation is required once the plantation is
established.
2.13    Agricultural Research and Extension.  Well-documented investigations
conducted over many years at the Dry Zone Research Station at Maha Illupallama
provide a solid foundation for the adaptive research work required for this
project. A new regional research station is being established under the
IDA-supported Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research (AE&AR) Project (Cr.
931-CE) in Kilinochchi, about 70 km north of Vavuniya, where agro-climatic condi-
tions resemble those of the project area. Testing and adapting research findings
to local conditions is being done at two adaptive research stations established
under the AE&AR Project in Vavuniya and Murunkan (Mannar).  However, the Murunkan
station, located on low-humic gley soils, cannot assist upland cropping.
2.14    Agricultural extension is being strengthened and organized under the AE&AR
Project according to the Training and Visit (T&V) system. Investments, staffing
and staff training under this project are generally on target. The AE&AR Project
would provide the additional staff and facilities required to implement activities
envisaged under the proposed project. Farmer training beyond that conducted under
the T&V system has been carried out successfully at a farmer training institute
near Vavuniya, where facilities are also available for extension staff training.
This center concentrates on training young farmers, who are required to conduct
work on sample plots. A similar establishment needs to be set up in Mannar.
2.15     Land Use Planning.  DA operates a land use planning unit in Peradeniya.
This unit receives technical assistance under the Anuradhapura Dry Land Farming
Project supported by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Under the AE&AR Project,
the Regional Research Station in Killinochchi will have a land use planning unit.
However, to develop local planning capability within the project area, it would be
necessary to establish one new land use planning sub-unit in the project area.
2.16    Agricultural Inputs.  Inputs are available through government agencies
such as Agrarian Service Centers (ASC) and from private dealers. Agricultural
staff of various departments are generally posted at ASCs. Department of Agrarian



-9-
Services (DAS) staff sells fertilizers and pesticides at those centers. Both
Districts have 2000-ton fertilizer stores operated by the Ceylon Fertilizer Cor-
poration. Fertilizers and pesticides are also sold by Multi-Purpose Cooperative
Societies and private dealers from about 25 sales points in each District,
accounting for most of the trade in more accessible areas. Mlore remote areas,
however, currently have no such facilities.
2.17    Seed is processed at DA plants in Murunkan (Mannar) and Maha Illupallama,
(Anuradhapura) and sold at ASCs. Most of the sales volume in certified seeds is
paddy, but pulses (green and black gram, cowpeas, groundnuts and some soybeans)
are also grown on contract, certified and sold to farmers. The seed cleaning
plant in Murunkan has a capacity of about 500 kg/hr, sufficient to process the
paddy requirements for the two Districts. The plant can also process pulse seeds.
Most vegetable seed comes from a specialized plant in Nuwara Eliya where the
climate is suitable for production.
2.18    Livestock.  Cattle, about 100,000 in each District, are mostly indigenous,
small Zebu-type, but clear signs of many decades of cross-breeding with Sindhi,
Sahiwal, Mysore and Ongole are also evident; there are very few buffaloes and
pigs, and a negligible number of sheep and goats. Cattle graze mostly in forest
areas or on clay plains near the beach (Mannar) in the maha season and on rice
stubbles after harvest. They are kept principally for manure which farmers value
highly for production of paddy, chillies and onions. Generally, milk production
is limited to home consumption with off-farm sales only within 20-25 km of the
Vavuniya and Mannar Milk Board chilling plants. Oxen and bulls are used for
tillage, but the demand for draft animals appears limited due to small farmers'
financial constraints. Surplus male animals are disposed of at consumption centers
in larger towns. There are no organized cattle markets: buyers contact stock
owners individually.
2.19    There are two veterinary surgeons in Mannar and three in Vavuniya,
assisted by a number of livestock development technicians. Veterinary services
are focussed principally on prevention of foot and mouth disease and haemmoragic
septicemia, both of which are endemic,and antihelminthic treatment. Veterinary
surgeons do provide artificial insemination (AI) service, using semen from exotic
bulls maintained in Jaffna. This service is only useful to a small, affluent
minority which can confine cows within farm holdings. AI success is handicapped
by poor viability of semen delivered in ice by public transport. In addition,
there are about six Sindhi-type bulls at a stud center in Mannar maintained by t'he
Livestock Development Board. Their impact, given the large number of males in
herds, is limited.
2.20    Agricultural Credit.  Institutional agricultural credit is provided
primarily by the two State-owned banks: the People's Bank (PB) and the Bank of
Ceylon (BC). National agricultural credit policy is established by a Rural Credit
Advisory Board. The Board, chaired by the Governor of the Central Bank, consists
of representatives of all institutions involved in agriculture credit. The



-10-
Central Bank's Department of Rural Credit functions as the Board's secretariat and
implements the Board's recommendations.
2.21    In Mannar District, PB operates through a district office and one branch
office. These service one multi-purpose cooperative and two rural banks. BC has
a district office, two ASC branches and a branch at the District' administrative
headquarters; they operate directly through branches. In Vavuniya District, PR
operates through a regional head office and two branch offices, which service four
multipurpose cooperatives and three rural banks. BC has a district office and a
network of eight ASC branches. Because of this limited branch network, institu-
tional credit satisfies only a small proportion of agricultural financing needs;
non-institutional sources still provide most of agricultural financing. Both PB
and BC follow similar credit policies. Cultivation loans for annual crops are
generally provided for six to ten months, at 9% interest. Medium and long-term
credit is available to farmers for investments such as farm equipment, at 12.5%
interest p.a., with 80-90% bank financing and up to 7 years repayment. The
Central Bank provides a 100% refinance facility for short-term loans at a conces-
sionary rate of 1.5% and for medium and long-term loans at 8.5%.
2.22    Inflation, as measured by Colombo's cost of living index, has risen
sharply in Sri Lanka since 1978, averaging 22% during 1980-81. However, sub-
sequent improvements in budgetary policies helped reduced lnflation rate to about
11% in 1982 over 1981, and to only 5.4% during calendar 1982. Therefore, current
agricultural lending rates are positive in real terms. However, the devaluation
of the rupee during February 1983, and subsequent price adjustments are expected
to raise the inflation rate to about 15% in 1983. Inflation should begin to
decline immediately thereafter, falling to about 10% by 1986. Thus, interest
rates on medium- and long-term loans are expected to be positive over most of the
project's disbursement period but interest on short-term loans are likely to
remain marginally negative.
2.23    In the two Districts, as in the rest of Sri Lanka, a long-standing problem
of rural credit in general and agricultural credit in particular has been a high
default rate (around 50%). This was aggravated during the 1977-78 maba season
when GOSL relaxed lending criteria. During that year disbursements of agricul-
tural credit increased tenfold but recoveries were negligible (less than 5%).
Annual volume of loans in these two Districts fluctuates widely, but has decreased
sharply since 1977-78 due mainly to farmer non-eligibility because of prior
default. During 1980-81, due to unfavorable weather conditions, the amount dis-
bursed under the Central Bank refinancing facility in Mannar were Rs 3.5 M of
which about 50% has been recovered. In Vavuniya, only Rs 0.25 M were disbursed,
of which about Rs 0.15 was recovered.
2.24    Withdrawal of the Central Bank guarantee in 1979 has forced banks to be
more cautious about borrower creditworthiness and loan recovery. GOSL has
launched a nationwide recovery drive which includes closely monitored reschedul-
ing. This, together with a more comprehensive approach towards credit viability,
which emphasizes medium-term investments to improve productivity, should allow



-11-
future expansion of the agricultural credit program based on an improved credit
delivery system and healthier farmer-bank relationships. This, however, should be
complemented with additional staff and facilities, and should be closely coor-
dinated with improvements in the agricultural extension service and distribution
of inputs supply.
2.25    Forestry.  Most of mainland Mannar is covered with natural forest inter-
spersed with upland garden plots exploited under chena cultivation. The only
forest reserve is part of the catchment area of Giant's Tank. The Forest Depart-
ment, which does not maintain staff in the District, exercises limited control
functions from Vavuniya. In Mannar, the palmyrah palm (Borassus flabellifer) is
common. It grows on vacant land, field boundaries and abandoned fields. It
produces a sweet sap from which jaggery, sugar or palm toddy is made. Leaves are
a good dry season fodder; the leaf base yields a tough, hard-wearing fiber and the
mature stem gives good salt water and rot-resistant poles. Recently, a Palmyrah
Development Board, based in Jaffna, was established.   Its role is to promote
cultivation of the tree and develop markets for jaggery and fiber.
2.26    Vavuniya has a forest reserve of about 43,000 ha and another 61,000 ha
under forest. Departmental staff, supervised by a Jaffna-based Divisional Forest
Officer, are posted to the area. They maintain a nursery which has recently
started distributing tree saplings to the general public under a social forestry
scheme. Much of the reserve land is degraded forest and slowly regenerating chena
land, which for improved productivity should now be reforested. Past plantations
in both Districts have demonstrated that teak and eucalyptus grow successfully,
thus the species proposed for forest plantations in the project are known, and
planting material is readily available.
Fisheries Sector
2.27    The coastal fishery of Mannar produces about 12,000 MT of fish annually,
the landed value of which is about Rs 52 M. This is about eight percent of the
total marine fish harvest of Sri Lanka. The industry employs nearly 4,000 people
in about 30 villages along the coast and on the island of Talaimannar. The
residential coastal fishing fleet, consists of over 1,200 craft, In addition,
there are about 850 migrant craft mainly from Negombo, Wannapuwa, Chilaw,
Thaduwewa and Jaffna. The mechanized resident fishing fleet of about 900 and a
migrant fleet of about 670 mechanized vessels account for approximately 85% of the
total marine fish catch in the District. The average catch per mechanized craft is
lower than the national average. This appears to be due mainly to antiquated
fishing techniques, inadequate input supplies and poor marketing arrangements.
2.28    Vidathalthivu is the fourth largest fishing village in Mannar.  To enable
fishermen to moor boats during low tide, a 150 m channel to the sea, the Arnolda
Canal, was dug in 1950; however, due to silting its current use is limited.
Ceylon Fisheries Harbour Corporation has recently desilted nearly 30 m, still
leaving 120 m in need of dredging. The viability of this operation and the pos-
sibility of alternatives need to be studied.



-12-
2.29    Ice requirements for fish preservation exceed the supplies produced within
the District; the remainder is brought in by wholesale agents. Control of the ice
supply by these agents weakens the bargaining position of fishermen. To address
this problem, GOSL in 1979 introduced tax incentives to stimulate private invest-
ment in ice plants. The response in other districts has been quite positive;
however, the major impediment to such expansion in Mannar District has been the
lack of electricity connections with the national grid. This handicap would be
overcome both under this project and the on-going IDA Sixth Power Project
(Cr.1048-CE).
2.30    Engine repair services within the District are provided by four
ill-equipped, private sector workshops and itinerant mechanics, as well as by one
workshop owned by the Ceylon Fishery Harbour Corporation. The Ministry of
Fisheries has an on-going program to increase and mechanize the existing fishing
fleet whereby up to 35% of the costs of boat hulls and engines are subsidized and
credit facilities for up to 88% of investment costs net of subsidy are offered.
In addition, credit is offered for repair and purchase of fishing gear and for
establishment of workshops. Functions and services of the Ministry of Fisheries
also include promotion and operation of the boat mechanization program, assistance
to fishermen's organizations, enforcement of fishery regulations and statistics
collection. The effectiveness of the organization is limited by lack of transport
facilities and training programs for fishermen.
Economic Infrastructure
2.31    Rural Electrification.  In the entire project area, only Vavuniya town is
supplied with electricity from the Anuradhapura grid substation (capacity 2 x 10
KVA) through a 33 KV transmission line approximately 50 km in length. Mannar is
one of the few districts still not connected to the national electricity grid.
Several small thermal plants based on diesel fuel are currently in operation, but
these are very expensive to maintain and their coverage is limited and unreliable.
Provision of hydro-power to Vavuniya and Mannar Districts is considered a priority
by GOSL. Mannar is expected to be connected to the national grid under the Sixth
Power Project during 1983.
2.32    Rural Roads.  Roads are classified into four categories (A to D).  A and B
roads are metalled and tarred; they are maintained by the Department of Highways.
Class C and D are minor roads which are metalled, tarred or gravelled and are
maintained by the Ministry of Local Government. The network of major roads is
inadequate in both Districts. There are 200 km of major roads in Mannar and 180
km in Vavuniya or about 0.10 and 0.08 km/km2, respectively, which are much lower
than in comparable districts. Minor roads (rural roads) serve highly scattered
agricultural and fishing villages and have evolved from foot tracks. Mlost rural
roads are in disrepair and are particularly difficult to use during the rainy
season. Their poor condition has prevented evolution of adequate marketing
facilities for agricultural and fishery products, and public transport expansion
to remote areas.



-13-
Social Infrastructure
2.33    Health.  The project area is served by one base hospital, three district
hospitals and five central dispensaries in each District. In addition, there are
three rural hospitals in Mannar and two in Vavuniya. Hospital beds per 1,000
population average 3.5 in Mannar and 2.3 in Vavuniya, compared to 2.6 for the
entire nation. Health institutions of the two Districts are comparable to those
elsewhere in the country. Available health facilities are scattered and often
inadequate to service both in-patients and out-patients. Some, however, are
underutilized and are unable to provide comprehensive health care, including
preventive and curative services. The referral system, whereby serious cases are
sent to larger institutions by ambulance is often ineffective because of ambulance
shortage, distances to be travelled and poor communications. Also it is difficult
to attract to and retain qualified medical personnel in smaller, more remote
locations due to poor facilities and lack of equipment. The Ministry of Health,
with financial assistance from ADB, is rationalizing the health care delivery
system to integrate curative and preventive care through a primary health care
delivery system in eight districts; Mannar and Vavuniya are excluded. To that
end, strategically located health centers have to be reorganized and strengthened
by upgrading: (a) village health centers to provide preventive health care at
village level; (b) sub-divisional health centers to provide preventive and cura-
tive out-patient service; and (c) a divisional health center to provide in- and
out-patient services.
2.34     Education and Vocational Training.  Both Mannar and Vavuniya have a high
proportion of schools in remote areas. The need for many small schools has
increased because of low population density and the existence of both Sinhala- and
Tamil-speaking communities. This has created problems in attracting qualified
teachers, principally because of lack of housing facilities. Mannar has a total
of 104 schools, of which 58 are primary, 32 are junior secondary and 14 are senior
secondary schools. Vavuniya has 139 schools, of which 81 are primary, 38 are
junior secondary and 20 are senior secondary school. Despite a large number of
schools, Mannar and Vavuniya lag behind the rest of the country in important
indicators of educational performance such as school attendance, average time
required for primary school graduation, and enrollment in advanced science.
2.35    While the education system under the Regional Department of Education is
considered satisfactory, there is need for greater emphasis on science and techni-
cal education to match the demands of the job market. There are only two schools
in the District which teach science to advanced level; however, facilities and
laboratory equipment are poor. Availability of science facilities at the junior
secondary level is also substandard. Training in technical fields is generally
inadequate as reflected in the "Report of the Committee on Technical Education"
that called for establishment of a Junior Technical College in Vavuniya to serve
the Districts of Vavuniya, Mannar and Mullaitivu.



-14-
2.36    Water Supply.  Main sources of drinking water supply in the project area
are open wells, tubewells and pipe-borne supply schemes.  The latter have
restricted coverage, and many schemes established some years ago are now in dis-
repair and are inadequate to meet the demands of a growing population. The drink-
ing water problem is particularly acute in fishing villages in Mannar because of
proximity to the sea. A project providing a pipe-borne water supply to Mannar and
other towns is being carried out with aid from the Netherlands. In Vavuniya, a
survey of groundwater potential mainly around towns is being carried out with the
assistance of the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ) with the objective of install-
ing about 350 drinking water schemes (well and pipe-borne) over a ten-year period.
However, there is still need for drinking wells in rural areas not covered by any
existing project.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Approach
3.01    The project seeks to raise income and living standards of the rural
population in Mannar and Vavuniya Districts, which have predominantly Tamil
populations and are among the poorest and least developed in Sri Lanka. These
objectives would be achieved through measures to increase agricultural production
and enhance economic and social infrastructure.
Project Components
3.02    The project would include the following:
A. Productive Components:
1. Plantations. Establish about 100 ha of horticultural crops, and 2,100
ha of forestry plantations by:
a) providing financial assistance to smallholders for planting about
100 ha of horticultural crops in Vavuniya;
b) distributing seedlings to small holders to plant about 700 ha with
eucalyptus and indigenous fuelwood species;
c) reforesting about 1,400 ha of degraded and marginal State-owned land
and catchment areas mainly with eucalyptus and teak; and
d) expanding existing fruit tree and forestry nurseries and providing
additional staff, equipment and vehicles to strengthen and upgrade
the implementation capacity of the Department of Agriculture, Forest
Department and the Palmyrah Development Board.
2. Irrigation. Increase production of paddy, subsidiary and horticultural
crops through:



-15-
a) rehabilitating about 19 major irrigation schemes and introducing
improved water management;
b) repairing/modernizing about 60 minor irrigation schemes in Mannar
and introducing improved water management;
c) installing 15 tubewells and settling about 150 unemployed youths in
the Vellankulam area of Mannar;
d) carrying out a groundwater exploration program to determine
groundwater potential in Vavuniya; and
e) providing additional staff, equipment, transport, facilities and
planning consultancy services to strengthen and expand the implemen-
tation capacity of the Irrigation Departments (ID) in both Districts
and DAS in Mannar.
3. Agricultural and Fisheries Support Services. Increase food and cash
crops, livestock and fisheries products by:
a) strengthening DAS capacity through construction of fertilizer and
seed stores, offices and transport, and enhancing seed multiplica-
tion programs with upgraded facilities for its seed multiplication
farm;
b) providing smallholder credit for construction of open dug wells and
purchase of bullocks, handsDrayers, pumps and farm implements.
Credit would also be provided for land improvement;
c) strengthening adaptive agricultural research and farmer training
by complementing activities provided under the AE&AR Project and
establishing a land use planning unit;
d) establishing a fisheries service center in Mannar to provide serv-
ices and facilities for fishing inputs and fish handling, and a
repair workshop. The project would also include a study of the
feasibility of improving the Arnolda Canal and would provide the
Department of Fisheries with training facilities and transport; and
e) strengthening livestock services through provision of buildings,
additional staff, transport and equipment for the Department of
Animal Production and Health (DAPH); and improving livestock market-
ing system by organizing producers' associations and establishing
two milk chilling centers and two cattle markets.



-16-
B. Economic Infrastructure:
1. Rural Roads. Rehabilitate and maintain about 750 km of feeder and
rural roads to facilitate transport of agricultural inputs and outputs
in both Districts, and of fishery products in Mannar. The project
would also assist the Department of Highways with additional staff,
facilities, transport and equipment to increase implementation and
maintenance capacity.
2. Rural Electrificaton. Electrify about 13 villages in Mannar and 10
villages in Vavuniya giving priority to fishery areas and areas with
substantial groundwater potential for agricultural development.
C. Social Infrastructure
1. Health. Improve existing health care services in strategically located
centers to remedy current shortages of facilities and personnel with
provision of new service buildings, staff quarters, vehicles and equip-
ment, training and additional staff for the Department of Health.
2. Education. Improve the quality of education services by providing
in-services training, facilities and equipment to rectify current
shortages at strategically located schools; developing vocational
training facilities; and additional staff and transport facilities to
improve supervision capability of the Department of Education.
3. Rural Water Supply. Sink about 100 community wells in water deficient
areas, giving priority to areas where voluntary labor would cover at
least 25% of labor cost requirements.
Main Project Features
3.03    Horticultural Development in Vavuniya District (Base Cost Rs 0.7 M -
Annex 1,Table 1). The project would establish 100 ha of horticultural crops.
This activity would be supported by increasing the coverage of GOSL financial
assistance for smallholder investments in new plantings of mixed and pure stands
of mangoes and citrus exceeding 0.2 ha. Implementation of this program would be
the responsibility of DA. Applicants would be required to use approved planting
material produced in part at the DA nursery and budwood orchards. The latter
would be established under the project at an existing DA farm; however, the
project would finance some additional equipment and staff for the departmental
farm to carry out the expanded program.
3.04    Forestry (Base Cost Rs 18.1 M - Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3). Forestry
development under the project would include establishing (a) industrial planta-
tions on about 1,400 ha of degraded and marginal State-owned land, and (b)
reforestation through a social forestry program involving tree planting on about
700 ha of degraded and marginal smallholder land and areas along field boundaries,



-17-
roads and canals. About 1,000 ha of uplands, previously farmed under chena cul-
tivation in Vavuniya, and about 400 ha of catchment area of the Giant's Tank in
Mannar would be converted into industrial plantations. Soil and site surveys for
these plantations, to be carried out by the Forest Department in conjunction with
the land use planning unit (para 3.17), would provide the basis for necessary site
selections. These plantations would be developed by the Forest Department under
small contracts. Abotut 70% of plantings would be eucalyptus and about 30% teak.
3.05    The social forestry program would encourage (a) smallholders to plant
suitable trees on marginal/uncultivated areas; and (b) schools and commtnity
groups to take up planting on vacant areas and along roads and canals on an
experimental basis. Farmers would be informed of the benefits obtained from
homestead and communal forestry plantations, assisted in demarcating areas of
waste land suitable for planting trees and provided with free seedlings. Tree
species likely to be used are eucalyptus, fruit trees, ipil-ipil, and palmyrah
palm.
3.06    Planting material for all species to be planted under both industrial
plantation and social forestry components (except palmyrah) would be produced at
existing Forest Department nurseries in Vavuniya and Mannar. The project would
provide additional equipment, nursery staff and materials for the Forest Depart-
ment nursery to carry out the expanded program. Overall implementation of the
forestry program (except palmyrah) would be the responsibility of the Forestry
Department, which would be strengthened by the provision of additional forestry
staff, training, offices, housing, equipment and transport. The project would
also include four sttudy tours for Forestry Department officials to learn from the
social forestry projects being implemented in neighboring countries. Distribution
of palmyrah seeds to smallholders would be the responsibility of the Palmyrah
Development Board. A four-ha palmyrah plantation would be established on an
experimental basis to test its potential under plantation conditions. The Pal-
myrah Development Board would post two development officers to Mannar to promote
exploitation of established trees and provide an outlet for leaf bases.
3.07    Irrigation (Base Cost: Major Schemes Rs 138.6 M, Minor Schemes Rs 9.1 M,
Groundwater Investigation and Development Rs 12.4 M - Annex 1 Tables 4 to 8).
Irrigation development and water management under the project would include: (a)
rehabilitation of 19 major irrigation schemes (five in Mannar and 14 in Vavuniya)
commanding a total irrigated area of about 4,400 ha; (b) rehabilitation of about
60 minor schemes in Mannar commanding a total irrigated area of about 1,000 ha;
(c) installation of about 15 tubewells irrigating about 60 ha in Mannar; and (d)
exploration of groundwater potential for irrigation in Vavuniya. ID would be
responsible for investigating, planning, designing and constructing major schemes
as well as operating and maintaining them down to field channels. Operation and
maintenance (O&M) of field channels would be the responsibility of farmers through
an elected farm leader (vel-vidane). DAS would carry out planning, investiga-
tions, designs, and rehabilitation/modernization of minor schemes, not exceeding
Rs 100,000 per scheme, and, in conjtnction with farmers, would be responsible for



-18-
O&M of all such schemes. Each major and minor scheme would be planned and con-
structed in consonance with standard ID specifications and the procedures,
criteria and guidelines given in Annex 2, which are similar to those agreed with
IDA for on-going rural development projects and the Village Irrigation Rehabilita-
tion Project (Cr. 1160-CE) (VIRP). However, earthwork for field channel
rehabilitation in major and minor schemes, estimated to average an equivalent of
Rs 1,650/ha, would be carried out by the benefiting farmers. Labor intensive
construction methods would be employed for civil works, although a limited quan-
tity of construction equipment would be provided to ID and DAS in both Districts.
Upon project completion, equipment provided would be used for O&M activities in
the project area.
3.08    Rehabilitation and restoration of civil works would include:  (a)
strengthening of tank hunds and repair or restoration of sluices, spillway and
anicut structures and augmentation works; (b) desilting, resectioning and improv-
ing main canals distributaries and repairing or reconstructing control structures;
(c) repairing and resectioning embankments and gravelling canal embankment tops to
be used as access roads; (d) constructing additional cross regulators,
regulator-cum-bridges, drainage outlet structures, culverts, canal escapes, and
silt traps; (e) installing measuring devices in main canals, head regulators, and
distributories to monitor discharge and seepage losses; (f) installing turnouts of
suitable size and control gates in distributories; and (g) rehabilitating farm and
field channels with appropriate structures to improve water management programs
including rotational distribution of irrigation water.
3.09    Of the 19 major schemes to be rehabilitated, one has been prepared to
feasibility level. A pre-feasibility study for Kurai tank in Mannar and sample
survey and preliminary designs for two additional schemes has also been completed.
Cost estimates for the remaining schemes have been prepared based on these
estimates, and on preliminary surveys of two breached tanks. Local engineering
consultants were employed in January 1983 to prepare feasibility studies and final
designs which ae expected to be completed by August 30, 1983. The cost of these
consultants (Rs 2 M) is recommended for retroactive financing (para 4.02). Addi-
tional local engineering consultants would be employed to prepare feasibility
reports for the rehabilitation of five breached schemes in Vavuniya. Criteria and
guidelines for the selection of the five breached schemes are in Annex 2.
Assurance has been obtained from GOSL that it would employ local engineering
consultants to plan and design these irrigation works on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA no later than January 1, 1985. Terms of reference for the
consultants to be employed under the project are included in Annex 3. Plans for
the remaining four schemes are being finalized by ID. Detailed engineering
designs and working estimates of five schemes to be constructed during the first
year of the project (including the Kurai Tank) and of two breached schemes would
be reviewed by IDA. Remaining schemes would be reviewed by the Project Directors
(PD) through contract staff (para 5.04). Salient features of the rehabilitation
program for major schemes are shown in Annex 4, Table 1.



-19-
3.10     DAS has identified 60 minor schemes; final selection, however, would
follow selection criteria presented in Annex 2. To ensure proper planning and
selection, detailed engineering designs and working estimates of the first ten
minor irrigation schemes would be reviewed by IDA. Remaining schemes would be
reviewed by PD through contract staff (para 5.04). DAS is establishing a nation-
wide program to promote improved water management under VIRP. This includes a
systematic approach to water management planning, strengthening farmer groups to
carry out such programs, and establishing regular DAS supervision. This improved
system would be adopted in this project. The project would utilize training
facilities established under VIRP for technical officers. It would provide DAS
(Mannar) with additional staff, supplementary training facilities, and equipment
to carry out its expanded program.
3.11    Under the project, 15 deep wells would be drilled in  the Mulamkavil-
Vellankulam basin in Mannar. Each well, discharging about 15 1/sec (1/2 cusec),
would serve 4 ha. Each farmer would be given 0.4 ha irrigated land and 0.2 ha
unirrigated land. Farms would be allocated to qualified, young settlers selected
from the Mannar District. Water would be lifted to a forebay from which irriga-
tion would be provided through a gravity-based distribution system lined to field
level. Final locations and construction of wells would be entrusted to the Water
Resouces Board. The project would provide investigation, drilling, equipping and
energizing of wells, a trunk-water distribution system, and additional staff and
transport to supervise the program. Land clearing and development would be
financed with credit (para 3.14 (c)); settlers would operate, maintain and replace
the pumps.
3.12    The project would include an exploration program to determine the scope
for economical groundwater exploitation in Vavuniya and to identify suiitable areas
for development of about 350 dug wells (para 3.14(c)) for irrigation and about 50
wells for drinking purposes (para 3.30). Support would include geophysical survey
and mapping of about 1,000 sq km, drilling of about 50 investigation boreholes and
50 six- and eight-inch test wells. This exploratory program would be coordinated
with the groundwater program being funded by GTZ. The geological survey and
mapping would start end-1983 and exploratory borehole drilling would start in
early 1984. The program would be carried out by the Water Resources Board.
3.13    Input Supplies (Base Cost Rs 6.9 M - Annex 1, Tables 9 and 10).  The
project would improve supplies of farm inputs through the following activities:
(a) DAS would be strengthened with two new Agrarian Services Centers
in Mannar, six additional outlets for fertilizer, pesticides and
seeds in each District, dunnage to all existing fertilizer and
seed stores, and provision of offices, staff quarters, transport
and equipment. New facilities would be sited in remote areas.
(b) Seed supply by DA would be facilitated by providing limited
equipment, transport and staff quarters at he Murunkan (Mannar)
seed processing plant, improving the seed store facilities, and



-20-
constructing a 20-ton store for storing pulses and an air-
conditioned store room for vegetable seeds in Vavuniya.
3.14    Agricultural Credit (Base Cost Rs 33.9 M - Annex 1, Tables 11 and 12).
The project would expand medium- and long-term agricultural credit to smallholders
through PB and BC in support of investments included in the project. Such credit
would include:
(a) medium-term (up to 3 years) loans to individual farmers for purchase
of sprayers and pumps for dug wells. Institutional credit is expected
to cover about 800 (300 in Mannar and 500 in Vavuniya) hand-operated
and motorized sprayers and about 900 pumps. Loans would also be
provided for tools and other farm equipment;
(b) medium-term (up to five years) loans to individual farmers or farmer
associations for purchase of draft animals. Institutional credit is
expected to be provided for about 450 animals (200 in Mannar and 250
in Vavuniya); and
(c) long-term (up to seven years) loans to individual farmers to construct
open dug wells and to carry out land improvement. It is expected that
during the project period institutional credit would be extended for
about 700 wells and 200 ha of improved land.
3.15    The project would strengthen the drive launched by PB and BC to recover or
otherwise rescheduled overdue loans. To implement the recovery program and
provide additional credit, each bank would establish an agricultural credit unit
in each District and would start posting additional staff by January 1984. The
project would provide required transport and foreign study tours for such staff.
The two banks would furnish to IDA by November 30, 1983: (a) an inventory of
defaulters; (b) an analysis and classification of portfolios (based on assessment
of farmers' income levels, earlier payment records, and loan reschedulings); and
(c) a collection program against willful defaulters.
3.16    Lending terms and conditions for loans to be financed under the project
are shown in Annex 5. Signing of subsidiary agreements between GOSL, PB and BC,
specifying the agricultural credit procedures to be followed under the project and
establishing agricultural credit units, with terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.17       Adaptive Research and Farmer Training (Base Cost Rs 9.1 M - Annex 1,
Tables 13 and 14). A land use planning unit would be established in Vavuniya to
aid implementation of the agricultural and forestry components and to improve
future agricultural planning in both Districts. The unit would consist of a
Planning Officer, a Soil Conservation Officer and two Agricultural Instructors
trained in soil conservation and land use planning. It would be supervised by the
DA's land use unit in Peradeniya. The project would provide offices, vehicles,
equipment, and aerial photographs.



-21-
3.18     A two-ha adaptive research farm would be established under the AE&ARP in
the Vellankulam area to support tubewell irrigation development (para 3.11).
About one-ha would be irrigated for testing continuous cropping systems. The
remainder would be devoted to developing systems of unirrigated cropping. The
project would upgrade hostel facilities at the farmer training center near
Vavuniya. A new training center would be established in Mannar. This center
would also cater for in-service and pre-season staff training, and provide train-
ing in palmyrah development. The project would supply staff housing, equipment,
vehicles, and additional DA staff to carry out expanded activities. It would also
include overseas training for thte Land Use Planning Officer and study tours for
agricultural officers.
3.19    Livestock Development (Base Cost Rs 16.3 - Annex 1, Tables 15 and 16).
The project would cover a number of separate hut related activities including (a)
strengthening DAPH services, (b) establishing cattle markets, and (c) enhancing
milk processing and marketing. To improve DAPH services, one additional veteri-
nary range and two existing ranges in Mannar and two additional ranges in
Vavuninya would be provided with adequate facilities, including clinics and hous-
ing. With the participation of the Livestock Development Board, the project would
encourage formation of livestock producer associations and through these would
provide farmer training in animal husbandry. The project would provide about 20
stock handling facilities in each District.
3.20    Artificial insemination program would be strengthened by supplying liquid
nitrogen containers for the transport of frozen semen. The project would import
seven Sindhi bulls for breeding. One-year old male offspring would be selected
and sold to herd owners. Until descendants of imported bulls become available,
suitable young Sindhi-type bulls would be made available to stock owners. The
project would provide offices, stores, quarters, furniture, equipment, transport
and additional staff for DAPH to implement these expanded programs.
3.21    One cattle market would be established under the project in each District
to facilitate efficient transport of animals to consumption centers. Markets
would be administered by each District Government Agent and supervised by DAPH.
The project would finance construction and recurrent costs of these markets.
3.22    To encourage milk production, an additional 4,000 liter milk chilling
center would he set up in each District. One would be in Murunkan (about 25 km
from Mannar) which would serve inland areas. The other would be in Neddukerny,
about 70 km from Vavuninya. In addition, about 15 collecting centers would be set
up in each District where milk would be bulked for transfer to the chilling cen-
ter. Facilities at this center would be adequate for washing and storing of milk
cans and keeping of hydrometers for testing incoming milk. Dairy producer
associations (para 3.19) would manage the collection centers and would also tran-
sport the milk. Chilling centers would be administered by the Milk Development
Board.



-22-
3.23    Fisheries (Base Cost Rs 3.7 M - Annex 1, Table 17).  The project would
improve fish marketing and input supply by providing for a service center at a
site to be determined to supply ice and to provide space for the sale and servic-
ing of fishing equipment and supplies. All commercial activities would be carried
out by private entrepreneurs with facility management under the Ceylon Fishery
Harbour Corporation. This center, to be located at a site within easy access of
large fishing villages and electricity supply, would be capable of generating
sufficient ice sales and fish storage demand to finance its O&M. A detailed
feasibility study of the service center, including design of the facility, and
financial and economic analyses would be reviewed by IDA prior to its implementa-
tion.
3.24    To ensure safer and quicker access from the sea to landing centers, the
project would install beacon lights at six on-shore locations. Local Government
authorities, in coordination with the Welfare Division of the Ministry of
Fisheries, would be responsible for installing these beacon lights. To assess the
feasibility of improving the landing facility at Vidathalthivu, the project would
cover necessary investigations for the rehabilitation of Arnolda Channel. The
project would also include a training component to upgrade fishing techniques, and
the repair and maintenance know-how of fishermen. The project would use the
regional training center in Jaffna, but would also provide for a limited number of
training staff and facilities in the District. This component would be imple-
mented by the Ministry of Fisheries which will be strengthened by providing addi-
tional staff, transport and equipment.
3.25    Rural Electrification (Base Cost Rs 39.2 M - Annex 1, Tables 18 and 19).
The project would provide electricity to 23 village areas with potential for rapid
economic growth. In Mannar, three fishing villages and ten villages with
prospects for groundwater development would be electrified. In Vavuniya, the
project would electrify ten villages with a high concentration of dug wells.
About 100 km of 33 kv line, 40 substations and about 60 km of low tension lines
(Annex 4, Table 2) would be constructed by the Ceylon Electricity Board which
would also operate the schemes.
3.26    Roads (Base Cost Rs 60.4 M - Annex 1, Tables 20 and 21).  About 500 km of
public feeder roads would be rehabilitated under the project. About 50 separate
road sections have been identified and are listed in Annex 4, Table 3.
Rehabilitation would include forming platforms by excavation, embankment gravell-
ing (in the case of gravelled roads), and remetalling and tarring metalled roads.
Because the terrain is reasonably level, existing platforms need not be widened.
Roads would have a minimum right-of-way of 15 m, 5 m platform, 3.5 m roadway, and
about 15 cm gravel compacted to 10 cm thick surfacing. In addition, the project
would also include rehabilitation of about 250 km of rural roads. Rural roads
would be built with a 11 m wide right-of-way, 5.5 m platform, 3.5 m roadway and
about 15 cm gravel compacted to 10 cm thick surfacing. Rural road sections in
urgent need of rehabilitation have already been identified. However, segments to
be rehabilitated would be prioritized annually taking into account: (a) the
agricultural and fishery potential of the areas, (b) project works proposed under



-23-
productive components, (c) population, and (d) current road condition. Preference
would be given to roads where community groups are willing to provide at least 25%
of total unskilled labor requirements. Selected roads sections would be included
in the project annual work program (para 5.11).
3.27     All feeder roads and at least 60% of the rural roads to be rehabilitated
under the project would be undertaken by the Department of Highways and the
remaining rural roads by the Department of Local Government Services (DLGS).
Labor-intensive construction methods would be employed. DLGS, with the assistance
of the project office staff (para 5.03), would organize community labor for road
rehabilitation. To upgrade the capability of the Department of Highways to carry
out its construction program, the project would provide a limited amount of con-
struction equipment, staff, material and transport. Equipment would be allocated
exclusively to the two Districts and would he used for O&M of the public road
system after construction work.
3.28     Health (Base Cost Rs 30.4 M - Annex 1, Tables 22 and 23).  The project
would improve the effectiveness of the existing health care delivery system by
strengthening strategically located health units. It would upgrade selected
existing health facilities at divisional (four), subdivisional (nine) and village
(30) levels to standard design used by the Ministry of Health. Centers to be
upgraded have been identified. The health component would be implemented by the
Department of Health. However, construction would be carried out by the Building
Department. The project would utilize Department of Health training facilities as
well as monitoring and evaluation methods established under the Health and Popula-
tion Project funded by ADB. The project would provide selected centers with
additional administrative and service buildings, wards, staff quarters, wells,
equipment, vehicles, staff, supplies and supplementary local training.
3.29     Education and Vocational Training (Base Cost Rs 41.7 M - Annex 1, Tables
24 and 25). The education component to be executed by the Regional Department of
Education and Ministry of Higher Education is designed to improve the quality of
education through: (a) providing in-service training and refresher courses for
teachers; (b) improving science training; (c) upgrading selected junior and senior
secondary schools; (d) attracting and keeping qualified teachers in remote areas;
and (e) establishing the first phase of a Junior Technical College. To that end,
the project would construct about 55 science rooms, 80 classrooms, 20 library
rooms, teacher quarters and the first phase of a Junior Technical College at
Vavuniya to provide vacational training to serve the Districts of Mannar, Vavuniya
and Mullativu. New facilities would be fully equipped and about 150 primary
schools would also be provided with basic science equipment and teaching aids.
Project would also provide vehicles and additional staff to assist in supervising
the education and construction programs. A preliminary list of schools to be
upgraded has been prepared. Priority would be given to schools with currently
qualified teachers, inadequate facilities and most remote locations. Buildings
would be of standard design used by the Ministry of Education. Equipment lists
for science rooms and laboratories, as well as for the technical college, have



-24-
been completed. Regional Departments of Education would conduct refresher cour-
ses, in-service training and seminars for teachers.
3.30    Rural Water Supplies (Base Cost Rs 5.2 M - Annex 1, Tables 26 and 27).
The project would include construction of about 50 community wells in each Dis-
trict. The wells would be of closed construction, and would be fitted with hand
pumps (UNICEF Specifications) to meet safe drinking water standards. Guidelines
for selection of well sites are given in Annex 6. Water quality tests would be
carried out on nearby wells before implementation. For siting new wells,
preference would be given to water-deficient areas and, within such areas, to
villages where organized community groups are willing to contribute at least 25%
of total unskilled labor requirements. The DLGS would carry out construction
through small private contractors or community groups and would install hand
pumps. Responsibility for well maintenance would be taken by local authorities,
under supervision of DLGS.
3.31    Project Coordination and Management (Base Cost Rs 22.3 M).  The structure
of and arrangements for project management are discussed in Chapter V. Assistance
for these activities would include additional staff, quarters, vehicles, office
buildings, office equipment and supplies for project coordination and management
in the two Districts, and limited support in terms of staff and vehicles for the
Regional Development Division (RDD) within the Ministry of Plan Implementation
(MPI). The project would also provide a technical assistance in the form of local
contract staff (paras 5.04 and 5.06) to assist PDs in supervising and monitoring
work progress and quality control, preparing reports, processing reimbursement
applications and general budget control, and RDD in monitoring the project and
maintaining general budgetary control at the central level. Funds would also be
provided for employing suitable local consultants to carry out project evaluation.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
Project Costs
4.01    Total project costs over the five-year period (January 1984 to December
1988) are estimated at Rs 717.4 M (US$31.2 M), with a foreign exchange component
of about 23%. Base costs are estimated at February 1983 prices, and include about
US$1.2 M in taxes and duties, but exclude expected farmer labor contributions for
field channel construction and O&M of field distribution systems, rural roads and
drinking water supplies. Physical contingencies amount to 11% of total base
costs. Price contingencies are estimated at 49% of base costs according to the
estimated annual inflation rates given in the footnote to Table 4.1.



-25-
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary by Components
% of
Foreign % of Total
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total    Cost   Base Costs
-Rs M-------- ------US$ M--------
A. PRODUCTIVE COMPONENTS
1. Plantation Crops
Horticultural Develop.   0.5   0.2         0.7      0.0   0.0    0.0        30.0      0.2
Forestry                  13.2   4.9    18.1        0.6   0.2    0.8        27.0      4.0
Subtotal               13.7   5.1    18.8       0.6   0.2    0.8         27.0      4.2
2. Irrigation
Major Schemes            113.2  25.4   138.6        4.9   1.1    6.0        18.0    31.0
Minor Schemes              6.8   2.4       9.2      0.3   0.1    0.4        26.0      2.0
Groundwater                6.4   6.0    12.4        0.3   0.3    0.6        48.0      2.8
Subtotal              f26.4  33.8   160.2        5.5   1.5    7.0        21.0    35.8
3. Supporting Services
Input Supply               4.8   2.1       6.9      0.2   0.1    0.3        30.0      1.5
Agricultural Credit       23.6  10.3    33.9        1.0   0.4    1.4        31.0      7.6
Agri. Research & Train.  6.0   3.1         9.1      0.3   0.1    0.4        34.0      2.0
Livestock                  8.4   7.8    16.2        0.4   0.3    0.7        48.0      3.6
Fisheries                  2.3   1.4       3.7      0.1   0.1    0.2        39.0      0.8
Subtotal               45.1  24.7    69.8       2.0   1.0    3.0         35.0    l5.5
Subtotal Productive Comp.       185.2  63.6   248.8       8.1   2.7   10.8         26.0    55.5
B. ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
1. Rural Electrification   23.5  15.7    39.2          1.0   0.7    1.7        40.0      8.7
2. Rural Roads               46.8  13.6    60.4        2.0   0.6    2.6        23.0    13.5
Subtotal               70.3  29.3    99.6       3.0   1.3    4.3         29.0    22.2
C. SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1. Health                    24.6   5.8    30.4        1.1   0.3    1.4        19.0      6.8
2. Education                 26.4  15.2    41.6        1.1   0.7    1.8        37.0      9.3
3. Water Supply                4.1   1.1      5.2      0.2   0.0    0.2        21.0      1.2
Subtotal               55.1  22.1    77.2       2.4   1.0    3.4         29.0    17.3
D. MANAGEMENT & COORD.           17.6   4.7    22.3       0.8   0.2    1.0         21.0      5.0
Total Baseline Costs            328.2 119.7   447.9    14.3   5.2   19.5           27.0   100.0
Physical Contingencies        38.0  12.8    50.8       1.7   0.5    2.2        25.0    11.3
Price Contingencies 1/    187.2  31.5   218.7          8.1   1.4    9.5        14.0    48.9
Total PROJECT COSTS             553.4 164.0   717.4    24.1   7.2   31.2           21.0   160.2
l/  Estimnates of price contingencies are based oni the following annual percentages:
FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88
Local Costs                      1.9.0  13.0  I'.0  10.0  10.0  10.0
Foreign Costs                     8.0   7.5   7.0   6.0   6.0   6.0



-26-
Financing
4.02    The proposed IDA credit of SDR 21.4 M (US$23.0 M equivalent) would finance
approximately 77% of project costs net of taxes and duties, equivalent to 100% of
foreign exchange costs and 69% of local costs. Remaining funds (Rs 188.6 M or
US$8.2 M) would be provided by GOSL (94%) and by beneficiaries (6%). To ensure
timely project implementation, some buildings, vehicles, and equipment would be
required immediately to carry out planning, designing and pre-construction inves-
tigations of project works. In addition, a local consulting firm was engaged in
January 1983 to prepare pre-construction designs and cost estimates for ten major
irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated under the project. Therefore, the project
would include up to SDR 0.47 M (US$0.5 M equivalent) of retroactive financing for
expenditures incurred on such items from January 15, 1983. The proposed financing
plan is summarized in Table 4.2 below:
Table 4.2: Proposed Project Financing
Total                       Benefi-         IDA
Contribution                Cost         IDA    GOSL   ciaries   Contribution
________--- US$ M4%
Civil Works                   19.9       17.9    2.0        -           90
Crop Development              0.9         -       0.9       --
Equipment and Vehicles        3.3         3.0    0.3        -           91
Agricultural Credit            2.2        1.3    0.4       0.5          59
Technical Assistance           0.9        0.8    0.1                    89
Operating Costs               4.0          -      4.0       -            -
Total                  31.2        23.0    7.7       0.5          74
Procurement
4.03    Project civil works would be labor-intensive, seasonal and scattered over
a wide area, and thus are not suitable for international competitive bidding
(ICB). Therefore, civil works would be awarded in accordance with local competi-
tive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA, or carried out by force account. Bids
for civil works contracts costing Rs 1.5 M or more would require IDA's prior
review. Except as noted below, goods (US$2 M base cost) would be procured through
ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif
price of imported goods or the import duty, whichever is lower, would be extended
to domestic manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Procurement of goods exceed-
ing US$100,000 would require IDA's prior review. Because of the relatively small
quantities, low unit costs and need for country-wide standardization, most educa-
tional and health equipment, would be acquired under GOSL's procurement procedures
satisfactory to IDA. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$ 15,000 per
contract that cannot be bulked into packages suitable for international tendering
or which are required urgently for project implementation may be procured after
solicitation of quotations from at least three independent suppliers in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Motorcycles and bicycles are to be purchased



-27-
by project staff, who would be provided with medium-term loans by GOSL. Loans
would be repaid from travel allowances for official travel. Aggregate expenditure
for non-ICB procurements of goods shall not exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent.
4.04     Commercial forestry plantations would be developed by the Department of
Forestry under small contracts. Horticultural and social forestry planting and
related field work would be done by beneficiaries using family and/or hired labor,
and inputs purchased through normal commercial channels. Similarly, equipment
financed by agricultural credit would be purchased by farmers through commercial
channels, and dug wells construction and land improvement would be carried out
by beneficiaries. A sufficient number of local dealerships and agencies with
ranges of equipment are available to ensure competitive prices. Consulting serv-
ices financed under the project would be obtained in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
Disbursements
4.05    Disbursements from the IDA credit would be made for:
(a) 90% of the cost of civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported vehicles, equipment,
livestock and furniture and 80% of expenditures for items procured
locally;
(c) 80% of loans disbursed by PB and BC for medium- and long-term credit
under the project; and
(d) 100% of expenditure on technical assistance and foreign training.
4.06    Disbursements for works undertaken by force account and for small con-
tracts costing less than Rs 300,000 under item (a) and for item (c) would be made
against statements of expenditures, documentation for which would be audited
annually and retained for review by IDA supervision missions. Disbursements for
item under (a) carried out by contractors for contracts costing Rs 300,000 or more
and for items under (b) and (d) would be fully documented. PDs, with the assis-
tance of contract staff (para 5.04), would be responsible for preparing IDA reim-
bursement applications after review and processing by the Central Accounting
Sub-unit. Disbursements under the credit (Annex 1, Table 30) would be completed
by September 1989, or about nine months after project completion. The disburse-
ment schedule is based on the disbursement profile of on-going RDPs and is con-
sidered reasonable given that a major part of the project investment is for civil
works, equipment, furniture and vehicles to be procured early in the project
period.



-28-
Accounts and Audits
4.07    Allocations for the project, as in ongoing RDPs, would be included in the
Ministry of Plan Implementation (MPI) budget, which would release funds to PD
(para 5.03). PDs would release funds to each implementing agency through imprest
accounts that would be replenished periodically. Each implementing agency would
make payments and claim reimbursements from PDs in line with GOSL's current
departmental limits. All other payments would be made directly by PDs after
receipt of certified documents from implementing agencies. Implementing agencies
would keep separate project accounts, and PDs would make internal reviews and
consolidate these accounts before submitting them to the Accounting Unit in MPI.
The Unit, after consolidating accounts for the two Districts and making internal
reviews, would submit them to the Auditor General and to IDA. The audit report
would include, inter alia, a statement verifying that funds disbursed by IDA
against statements of expenditure were used for the purpose for which they were
provided. Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that (a) all implementing
agencies would prepare and maintain separate project accounts, (b) PDs would
prepare and maintain consolidated project accounts, (c) project accounts would be
audited annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA, (d) copies of the
unaudited annual project accounts would be sent to IDA for review no later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year and copy of the audited report not
later than nine months after the end of the each fiscal year, and (e) the
auditor's report would include, inter alia, a statement that funds disbursed
against statements of expenditure were used for the purpose for which they were
provided.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Overall Project Management
5.01    The organization and management structure of the project would be similar
to that of the ongoing Kurunegala (Cr. 891-CE) and Second Rural Development (Cr.
No. 1079-CE) Projects since the organization and procedures adopted in these
projects have proved to be effective for complex, multi-component development
activities at district level. Project implementation would be carried out essen-
tially within the existing structure of agencies and departments, with limited
strengthening provided with the project (Annex 7).
5.02    Overall responsibility for implementing and coordinating project
activities would be with MPI which would liaise with IDA on all project-related
matters. Under its coordination, existing government agencies and departments
would implement individual project components (Annex 7). MPI has appointed a
qualified and experienced full-time Project Director (PD) in each District. PDs
would report to RDD within MPI and be responsible for implementing the project in



-29-
accordance with agreed procedures. Each PD would work under the general supervi-
sion of the Government Agent (GA) and District Minister (DM) and would be sup-
ported by an appropriately staffed Accounting Unit, Planning and Monitoring Unit,
and Technical Unit.
5.03    Responsibilities of each PD would include:  (a) resolving bottlenecks; (b)
assisting implementing agencies in organizing community labor for project works;
(c) reviewing project progress monthly; (d) preparing quarterly progress reports;
(e) preparing annual work programs and budgets in collaboration with implementing
agencies and updating the five-year work plan and budget; (f) releasing funds for
project expenditures; (g) preparing reimbursement claims; (h) preparing con-
solidated project accounts and internal review of each implementing agency's
accounts; (i) liaising as appropriate with the Project Coordinating Committee
(PCC) (para 5.05); and (j) assisting the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in RDD
(para 5.06) to prepare the project completion report.
5.04    The Accounting, Planning and Monitoring, and Technical Units would assist
PDs in implementing and supervising the project. The Planning and Monitoring Unit
would be supported by the Land Use Planning Unit (para 3.17) for agricultural
development planning. This unit would also assist the District Administration and
the District Development Council in the overall planning process for the Dis-
tricts. The Technical Unit would have contract staff, including an engineer, an
agriculturist, and a livestock officer, responsible for: (a) review of plans for
civil works to ensure compliance with agreed specifications and guidelines; (b)
inspection of field works and monitoring the quality and progress of all on-going
civil and other works; (c) notification of PDs on compliance of implementing
agencies with agreed project criteria, guidelines and specifications; (d) assis-
tance in preparing and reviewing procurement documents and monitoring procurement;
(e) assistance in preparing reimbursement applications; (f) assistance in monitor-
ing project progress and maintaining centralized budgetary control; and (g) assis-
tance in preparing quarterly progress reports, annual progress reports, annual
and five-year work programs, budgets, and the project completion report.
5.05    Overall direction of project management would be provided by the Rural
Development Projects Steering Committee (RDPSC), already established at the
national level in MPI originally for Kurunegala RDP, and now for all RDPs, to
resolve project-related policy issues, and implementation bottlenecks that cannot
be resolved at district or project level. It is chaired by the Secretary of MPI,
with the Director of RDD as its member-secretary; and as members, the heads of
concerned agencies and departments, GAs and PDs. In addition to coordination and
general project direction at the national level, this Committee is responsible
for: (i) ensuring consonance of district developmental schemes with national
policies and programs; (ii) monitoring overall project progress; and (iii) review-
ing and approving annual and five-year work programs and budgets. A Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) would be established in each District to: (i) coor-
dinate interdepartmental activities at district level; (ii) monitor project
progress; (iii) review quarterly and annual progress reports; (iv) review annual
and five-year work plans and budgets prior to submission to RDPSC; and (v) ensure



-30-
consonance of project activities with other district developmental activities.
PCC would be chaired by DM with the respective GA as Vice Chairman, and PD as
member-secretary. This committee would meet at least bimonthly. Assurances have
been obtained from GOSL that it would establish and maintain a Project Coordina-
tion Committee in each District.
5.06    At the national level, a Project Cell and a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(within RDD), and a Procurement Unit (within MPI) supervise and coordinate the
various RDPs in the country. The Project Cell's responsibilities include: (a)
broad general guidance and assistance to PDs; (b) overall monitoring of project
progress; and (c) liaison with head offices of implementing agencies for resolu-
tion of project-related issues. Responsibilities of the Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit are: (a) establishing indicators for monitoring and evaluation; (b) fol-
low-up on reimbursement position; (c) coordinating RDP monitoring and evaluation
work being done by various institutions; (d) reviewing monitoring atnd evaluation
work in non-rural development projects; and (e) preparing project completion
reports. An Accounting Sub-unit would be established under the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit. The Accounting Sub-unit would have contract staff, including an
accountant, an assistant accountant and support staff. The Accounting Sub-unit's
responsibilities would involve: (a) releasing imprest funds to PDs; (b) reviewing
the annual accounts prepared by PDs and preparing consolidated project accounts
for submission to IDA; (c) transmitting and monitoring all reimbursement applica-
tions; and (d) consolidating annual budgets. The Procurement TJnit would be
responsible for procuring all equipment and vehicles to be centrally procured and
for preparing reimbursement applications with respect to such procurement.
Project Implementation
5.07    The project would be implemented over a five-year period (1984 to 1988).
With additional staffing and infrastructural support provided under the project,
all agencies are expected to implement assigned project activities with little
additional coordination and supervision beyond that currently provided by GA under
Sri Lanka's decentralized development administration. Supporting infrastructure
required for development of the various sectors would be completed in the first
three years of the project. Other activities--rehabilitation of irrigation works,
command area development, various smallholder crop development programs, and
improvement of rural roads and social infrastructure--would be phased over the
project period in accordance with implementation capacities of the various agen-
cies. Staff mobilization would begin by July 1983.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
5.08    Responsibility for O&M of all vehicles and equipment would rest with
respective operating agencies and departments. There are adequate private repair
facilities to maintain farm equipment purchased by farmers and to service GOSL
staff motorcycles and bicycles. ID would be responsible for O&M of major irriga-
tion schemes down to field channel level. Responsibility for field channel O&M in
major and minor schemes would rest with farmers under DAS supervision and guidance.



-31-
Currently DAS is strengthening farmer groups to carry out such activities. Activi-
ties. Settlers would be responsible for O&M of the channel system of tubewell
development; they would also operate, maintain and replace the pumps. O&M of
rehabilitated feeder roads would be carried out by the Department of Highways.
Rural water works and rural roads would be maintained by the Department of Local
Government in cooperation with local authorities. Buildings would be maintained by
appropriate participating agencies.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.09    Project monitoring would be the responsibility of each PD.  Two types of
monitoring are envisaged: (a) "project input" monitoring of civil and field
works, procurement, staff recruitment and implementation of crop development
programs; and (b) "project output" monitoring of increased services and produc-
tion. For project input monitoring, each implementing agency would submit
quarterly and annual reports to PDs. Report formats would be based on those
developed for ongoing RDPs. For project output monitoring, implementing agencies
would report at least annually on a set of selected indicators that would measure
progress toward specific objectives. Indicators and report format to be used
under the project would be developed by the Evaluation Unit within RDD taking into
account work done in on-going RDPs.
5.10    PDs would prepare a consolidated, quarterly progress report based on
individual agency reports. This would be reviewed by PCC within two weeks of the
end of each quarter. GOSL would submit quarterly reports to IDA within eight
weeks of the end of each quarter. Quarterly reports, together with output/benefit
monitoring, would be used in preparing a comprehensive annual progress report and,
a detailed, annual work plan for the following calendar year. As required, an
updated comprehensive work plan for the remainder of the project period would also
be prepared. Following approval by RDPSC, GOSL would submit to IDA, by November
30 of each year, the detailed annual work plan for the following year, the updated
overall work plan for the remainder of the project period, and by March 31 of each
year, the annual progress report for the preceding year. Overall project evalua-
tion would be the responsibility of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, which
would contract evaluation of particular components to suitable local consultants
acceptable to IDA. Evaluation would be based on data generated from the monitor-
ing system supplemented with special data collection as required. On-going
monitoring and evaluation work being carried out for Kurunegala RDP and VIRP would
provide guidance for the project monitoring and evaluation system. A detailed
draft plan for project evaluation will be submitted to IDA for comments by Novem-
ber 30, 1983. Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that it would employ
suitable local consultants by January 1, 1984 to evaluate project components under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Staff Training and Technical Assistance
5.11    To improve the capability of the different implementing agencies, training
under the project would include: (a) study tours for four forest officers to



-32-
observe social forestry projects in neighboring countries; (b) fifty staff-months
of training in water management for technical staff of ID and DAS at Maha Ilup-
palama and Killinochchi Research Stations; (c) a one-year technical training
program in aerial photography for the Land Use Planning Officer at a suitable
international institute, and study tours for agricultural officers at a suitable
international institute for tropical agriculture; (d) study tours for agricultural
credit officers to learn from experience in neighbouring countries; and (e) 100
staff-months of training for fishermen in catching and preserving techniques at
the Jaffna Training Center.
5.12    Technical assistance would be provided in the form of: (a) local contract
staff (540 staff-months) comprising two engineers, two agriculturalists, two
livestock officers to assist PD in implementation and supervision, and one
accountant and an assistant accountant to assist RDD; and (b) local consulting
services (150 staff-months) to assist ID in preparing feasibility reports and
pre-construction estimates for major irrigation schemes. The staff composition
and cost estimates are given in Annex 3 and cost estimates in Annex 1, Tables 4,
5, 28 and 29.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, FARM
INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Impact
6.01    Annual Crops.  About 3,950 ha would benefit under the project from a
better managed, more reliable water supply. In addition to higher yields and
cropping intensities on existing irrigated land, major works and new dug wells
would extend irrigation to an estimated 2,200 ha previously cultivated under
rainfed conditions, and tubewells, to about 60 ha currently under scrub forest.
6.02    Cropping intensities in irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated are low,
averaging about 70% in Mannar and 80% in Vavuniya confined only to maha. With the
project, these are expected to rise to 95% in maha and 10% in yala in both Dis-
tricts. Cropping intensities in minor irrigation schemes in Mannar, estimated at
about 80% during maha, are expected to rise to 90%. With-project intensities are
anticipated to correspond to those achieved currently in better operating tanks.
In addition, more reliability in irrigation deliveries is expected to reduce crop
failure risk from an average of 25% to 5% in areas served by major schemes and
from 30% to 15% in areas served by minor schemes. In all irrigation schemes,
minor and major, paddy is virtually the only crop grown; this would continue with
the project. However, with better water and input supplies and improved cultural
practices, average paddy yields in Mannar would rise from 2.6 MT/ha to 3.6 MT/ha
in major schemes and from 2.4 to 3.0 MT/ha in minor schemes; in Vavuniya, yields
would increase from 2.4 MT/ha to 3.4 MT/ha.
6.03    Small upland holders in potential groundwater areas would be able to
install and energize small wells through credit. Cropping in upland areas without
irrigation is confined to only one season. About 60% of the area is sown to



-33-
pulses, 15% to low-value, drought-resistant vegetables and about 25% to high-value
crops; however, yields are low due to water stress throughout the growing season.
With irrigation, area under pulses would decrease to about 25%, the remaining area
(75%) would be under cultivation of high-value vegetables in continuous rotation
over the nine-month irrigation period. With irrigation and better input supply,
vegetable and chilli yields are expected to increase from 1.3 MT/ha to 3.0 MT/ha
and from 0.8 MT/ha to 1.4 MT/ha, respectively.
6.04    The Velankulam tubewell settlement scheme would be developed in a
scrub-forest area, formerly cultivated under chena, that provides limited grazing
and some fuelwood. With the project, two-thirds of the area would have assured
water supply for about 11 months, with small quantities even available in the dry
month of September. Based on the pilot scheme implemented in the area and on
current crop rotation research, settlers are expected to plant high-value
vegetables in a continuous rotation system. Expected yield and production costs
have been estimated in terms of irrigated chillies. Irrigated area is expected to
produce about 3 MT/ha. Unirrigated area would be planted with low yielding,
drought-resistant vegetables expected to yield about 0.8 MT/ha.
6.05    Without the project, cropped areas, intensities and yields are assumed to
remain unchanged from current levels. Detailed assumptions for present and future
intensities and yields for irrigation schemes are presented in Annex 8, Table 1.
Project crop production is summarized below:
Table 6.1 Annual Crop Production (MT)
Future Without   Future With
Project         Project         Incremental
Paddy                  6,800           17,000             10,200
Vegetables               300            1,400              1,100
Pulses                   300              100               -200
6.06    Orchards.  About 100 ha of mangoes and citrus would be established in
smallholder upland areas having limited irrigation but sufficient subsurface
moisture to sustain mature trees. Orchards would be planted in small areas (not
more than 1/3 of holdings) currently cultivated with pulses or low-value
vegetables. However, it is expected that farmers would intercrop pulses during
the first years of orchard establishment. Mango production would start in year
five and would reach full development in year ten. At full development, total
mango production is estimated at 1,500 MT (15 MT/ha). Detailed assumptions for
present and future input requirements and yields are presented in Annex 8, Table
2.
6.07    Forestry.  About 1,400 ha of degraded state forest and smallholder mar-
ginal lands would be planted with eucalyptus and teak. Yields and input require-
ments are given in Annex 8, Table 2. Forestry plantations would be thinned peri-
odically, producing interim outputs of fuelwood, construction poles and sawlogs.



-34-
Total wood production over the project life is estimated at 620 m3 of which about
280 m3 would be sawlogs.
6.08    Livestock.  Milk production is limited to home consumption, reflecting
inadequate marketing facilities. The project, by installing a 4,000-litre chill-
ing center and about 15 collecting points in each District, would encourage
smallholder, milk production and marketing. Based on experience elsewhere in the
country under similar conditions, it is estimated that about 2,000 litres/day
would be collected during the first project year, reaching 3,500 litres/day after
four years in each District. Producers are expected to deliver less than 10
litre/day from a mixed 30-animal herd. Technical parameters assumed for this
typical herd are given in Annex 8, Table 3.
Marketing and Commodity Prices
6.09    Rice.  Sri Lanka's rice imports have declined steadily over the last five
years but remained at about 100,000 MT p.a. This import level nearly doubles
during years with unfavorable weather. Project-induced production of about 10,000
MT p.a. would be readily absorbed by the domestic market. Current marketing,
storage and milling facilities are adequate for present production levels and are
being strengthened by public and private sector investments.
6.10    During the last few years GOSL has been reducing the costly obligations of
directly guaranteeing food supplies and subsidizing retail prices. These measures
have been accompanied by a major shift to private sector rice marketing, with
Government's role increasingly limited to market regulations. GOSL sets a guaran-
teed floor GPS price for producers. Consumers' price are controlled by GOSL
through imports and the price at which it sells imported rice. During the past
three years, the guaranteed price was increased annually until it reached its
current level of Rs 2.75/kg which has been in operation since early 1982. The
free market price over the last harvesting season, however, averaged Rs 3.4/kg.
Under current market conditions only a small portion of paddy procured (about 15%)
is being sold to the Paddy Marketing Board; the balance traded is sold on the free
market. Therefore, although there is still significant difference between GPS and
import base prices (70%), there is little difference between import-based and open
market prices. This is due in part to substantial declines in world market, rice
prices during the last year. For the purpose of financial analyses, it has been
assumed that the current differential between import-based and market prices,
which reflects GOSL's policy of trade liberlization, will continue. Prices used
in the financial and economic analyses are shown in Annex 8, Table 4.
6.11    Milk.  Sri Lanka's total milk production is estimated at 400,000
litres/day, of which about 70% is utilized for home consumption or marketed
locally either directly or through middlemen. Only about 30% milk produced is
processed through the three plants run by the National Milk Board. A new plant is
being installed 70 km north of the project area to produce about 20,000 litres/day
of sterilized milk. In addition to local production, imports of dairy products
have increased from Rs 70-85 M in 1973-76 to over Rs 500 M in 1981. Large dairy



-35-
product imports were likely to continue for the foreseeable future unless drastic
policy changes were introduced. Prices received by producers during 1982 ranged
from 2.00-2.80/litre except in Jaffna where prices were at about 3.20/litre within
a well developed milk market. Although these prices were sufficient to meet cash
costs, they did not cover the full costs of production especially in the coconut
triangle and mid-country. To remedy this, and following the recommendations of
IDA's Dairy Sector-Review Mission, GOSL has just announced price increases for all
dairy consumer products (20-35%), as well as in producer milk prices (about 40%).
At the same time it has also announced decreases in overall subsidies to the
processing sector. New prices will encourage attainment of the milk production
levels expected with the project. Prices used in the financial analyses are based
on current prices obtained by livestock owners from existing Milk Board collection
facilities adjusted for recent price increases. This price is about 20% higher
than the imported milk equivalent.
6.12    Forestry.  In addition to domestic production, Sri Lanka has imported
about 13,000 m  plywood and sawnwood annually between 1979-1981.  At present,
however, Sri Lanka is self-sufficient both in sawnwood and in plywood as a result
of (a) reduction in public investment and demand for industrial wood, and (b) a
temporary boost in log production from forests of the Mahaweli area and from
salvage operations involving cyclone-damaged teak. When these effects end
(mid-1980s), imports are likely to resume to meet FAO's projected increase in
demand of about 3% p.a. into the next century. Therefore no difficulty is
anticipated in finding markets for the project-generated production either sub-
stituting for imports or supplying poles or fuelwood. The existing
well-developed, marketing organizations of the Timber Corporation would have no
difficulties in handling the relatively small project production. Wood prices in
Sri Lanka have been at about world levels. During 1981 teak and mahogany sold at
about Rs 8,000 (US$400)/m3 and domestic utility timber, Rs 3,500 (US$180) - Rs
5,500 (US$290)/m3. In all financial calculations, market prices have been
projected in real terms to 1995 prices based on expected world market price
increases.
6.13    Other Agricultural Activities.  A variety of traditional cash and staple
crops to be grown can easily be absorbed through farm family consumption, in local
and domestic urban markets and in limited export trade (mangoes and chillies).
While fertilizer Is still subsidized, these subsidies have decreased substantially
over the past few years. For financial analyses it has been assumed that the
present differential between local and border prices would be maintained through
1995.
Farm Income
6.14    Most project beneficiaries would be smallholders, landless laborers and
small livestock holders. Some larger rainfed farmers would benefit from the
project by having small portions (about 0.7 ha) of their rainfed area brought
under irrigation through the provision of credit for dug wells. Therefore, farm



-36-
income has been analyzed on the basis of six representative models covering
investments in (a) major irrigation works (Mannar); (b) major irrigation works
(Vavuniva); (c) minor irrigation works (Mannar); (d) tubewells (Mannar); (e)
installation of dug wells (Mannar and Vavuniya); and (f) orchards on partially
irrigated lands (Vavuniya). Farm holdings under major and minor irrigation
schemes are generally of similar size; therefore, an average paddy holding of 1 ha
was assumed for all existing irrigated holdings supplemented by 0.2 ha of upland,
reflecting usual settlement schemes allocations. Farm families are exDected to
have off-farm income mainly from seasonal agricultural employment. Since youths
to be settled within the tubewell development area would be selected from land-
less, unemployed laborers, income without-project was assumed to come from
seasonal agricultural emDloyment. Most beneficiaries of livestock development
would be small livestock holders owning no agricultural land. Therefore the
income nosition of a typical herd of 30 animals was analyzed for the livestock
component. Table 6.2 below summarizes the projected impact of the project on net
farm incomes (shown in Annex 8, Tables 3, 5-7).
Table 6.2: Net Family Income
Future
Model                Without-  TWith-
'Farm Size   Present   Project  Project  Increase
(ha)      -------------Rs----
Major Irrigation - Mannar          1.2       5,600      6,800   16,600        145
Major Irrigation - Vavuniya        1.2       5,800      7,200   11,000         53
Minor Irrigation - Mannar          1.2       5,300      6,300   13,300        110
Tubewells - Mannar                0.8        3,000      3,000   19,000        530
Dug wells - Mannar & Vavuniya   1.0          9,600      9,400   22,700        140
Orchards                           1.0      11,200    11,000   18,100          65
Livestock                      30 animals   9,500       9,500   14,300         50
Current incomes of prospective beneficiaries vary widely mainly due to variations
in agricultural resources and activities pursued. Similarly, income effects from
the project would vary in relative terms but would be significant. Nevertheless,
even with the project, benefited smallholder incomes would remain relatively low.
Assuming an average family size of 5.8 persons, per capita income for the average
henefitting family would rise from about US$45 to TJS$110, compared with an average
Der capita income of 11SS270 nationwide and an absolute povertY income level of
about TJSSlIO (1981 estimates).
Cost Recoverv
6.15     The capital cost of project works would amount to Rs 324 M in present
value (PV) terms while incremental n&M costs of all project components during the
project life are estimated at Rs 112 M. Hence, the PV of total costs over the
Sn-year project life would amount to Rs 436 M (PV).



-37-
6.16     Sales of project-generated products of State-run plantations would
provide GOSL with revenue of about Rs 111 M (PV). Under the Irrigation Ordinance
of 1946, as amended in 1968, GOSL is empowered to levy water charges towards
recovery of capital and O&M costs of irrigation systems. Water charge rates are
low, e.g. Rs 75/ha for schemes with more than 150% cropping intensity and Rs 50/ha
for scheme with cropping intensities of 150% or less, compared to an estimated
average O&M cost of Rs 300/ha to be bored by ID. No water charges are levied by
GOSL on minor schemes, and O&M of such schemes are left to farmers under direct
supervision and advise of DAS. Currently, water charges cannot be enforced under
existing legislation. Therefore, up-to-date collections of water charges have
been insignificant. GOSL has recently formed a Committee under the chairmanship
of the Secretary of the Ministry of Lands and Land Development to work out a
reasonable basis for irrigation charges. A Cabinet Paper on cost recovery is
expected to be completed soon stipulating necessary amendments to the current
Irrigation Ordinance. Collections of water chargs are expected to improve
immediately following the amendments to the Irrigation Ordinance. With improved
irrigation water in major irrigation schemes under the project, and following
amendments to the Irrigation Ordinance, it is expected that collection of water
charges in the project area would improve. Under the assumption that water char-
ges would be at least maintain at current levels in real terms, incremental water
charges due to the project are estimated at Rs 2 M (PV). In addition, under the
project, farmers' contribution to construction of field channel systems in minor
and major schemes, estimated at Rs 1,650/ha, would amount to Rs 7.0 M in PV.
Farmers would also meet a substantial portion of incremental O&M costs through
labor contributions, notably through the watercourse maintenance in major and
minor schemes and O&M of pumps and watercourses in tubewell and dug well schemes.
Such contributions are estimated at Rs 18 M (PV). In addition, farmers' contribu-
tion to milk collection O&M would amount to Rs 10 M (PV) and payments of elec-
tricity tariffs to Rs 19 M (PV).
6.17     Hence, recoveries from various forms of farmer contributions/repayments
and from GOSL commercial forestry activities would total about Rs 167 M (PV) or
38% of total project cost due mainly to the revenues accruing from the forestry
component. Since about 45% of the project investment costs would be directed to
economic and social infrastructure, and given the relatively low incomes prevail-
ing in the project area even after project implementation (para 6.14) this
recovery level is considered reasonable and similar to ongoing rural development
projects, such as Badulla RD (26%) and Second RD (45%). GOSL budgetary contribu-
tion to the project over the 50-year project life would amount to Rs 269 M (PV).
In addition GOSL contribution to agriculture credit is estimated at Rs 23 M (PV)
which would be recovered through credit repayments by farmers.



-38-
Table 6.3: Present Value of Project Costs and Recoveries _/
Capital Costs                                         Rs M
Plantation Crops                                     13.7
Irrigation                                          134.8
Support Services (excluding credit)                  25.5
Economic Infrastructure                              R1.0
Social Infrastructure                                56.4
Management & Coordination                            12.5
Subtotal                                       323.9
O&NM of all Project Components                        111.9
Total Project Costs                            435.8
Recoveries
Water Charges                                         1.7
Farmers' Contribution to
Rehabilitation of Irrigation Works                  7.1
Farmers' Contribution to Irrigation O&M              18.3
Farmers' Contribution to Milk Marketing              10.4
Electricity Tariff                                   18.6
Forestry Products                                   111.3
Total                                           167.4
1/  Discounted at 10% p.a., estimated to be the opportunity
cost of capital in Sri Lanka.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01    The proposed project would increase agricultural production, raise incomes
and improve living standards in the predominantly rural Districts of Mannar and
Vavuniya. The project would enable higher productivity from existing under-utilized
irrigation schemes, degraded marginal lands, areas with under-developed groundwater
potential, and under-utilized livestock resources. The project area would receive
enhancements to economic and social infrastructure to ensure full realization of
project benefits and improve the social well-being of the rural population.
Emphasis on rehabilitation and quick-yielding investments is in consonance with
current GOSL development strategy. Benefits can be expected to flow almost
immediately from investments made during the first years of the project. About
7,200 smallholders and small livestock owners would have their incomes increased
as a result of the project. As project works are widely dispersed throughout the
Districts, the project should help to reduce intra-district disparities.



-39-
Employment and Income Effects
7.02    Overall employment would be raised substantially as a result of more
intensive land use, particularly in groundwater areas during the yala, thereby
helping to alleviate high unemployment during that season. With higher land use
intensities, new agriculture-based settlement programs and improved livestock
husbandry, agricultural labor requirements in the project area would expand from
about 1.0 M staff-days at present to about 1.5 M staff-days at full project
development. While most of this additional employment would represent higher
family employment in on-farm activities, hired labor is also expected to increase.
In addition, project civil and field works would create new jobs for skilled and
unskilled labor during the five-year project implementation period, mainly during
off-season of agricultural and fishery activities. Additional value-added from
agriculture, plus an increase in input requirements should also generate addi-
tional indirect employment.
Economic and Social Infrastructure
7.03    Rehabilitation and expansion of economic and social infrastructure in the
two Districts would improve living standards, especially among families in iso-
lated areas. The project would improve drinking water supplies for about 2,000
rural families. Electricity would be provided to fishery areas and areas with
groundwater development potential; electricity hook-up is anticipated to benefit
about 3,000 households. Isolated villages, especially along the coast in Mannar
and in northern Vavuniya, would enjoy improved road transport. About 70 schools
in each District would be provided with additional facilities and equipment.
Curative and preventive health services throughout the Districts would be
upgraded. Consequently, disparities in living standards within the two Districts,
and from the country as a whole, would diminish.
Environmental Impact
7.04    By promoting commercial and social forestry activities on degraded and
marginal lands and in upper catchment areas, the project would have an important
positive impact on the micro-climate and general environment of the project area.
It would also help arresting the deforestation within the Districts, thereby
relieving the pressure on wood extraction from erosion-prone, water catchment
areas.
Benefits to the Economy and Economic Analysis
7.05    Considering incremental capital and recurrent costs and benefits valued in
border rupees and constant currency values, the Sri Lanka economy is expected to
realize net benefits from project investments of about Rs 214 M in present worth



-40-
(PW)l/ terms. The economy of Sri Lanka would realize an economic rate of return
(ERR) from project investments, inclusive of physical contingencies, of about 16%.
In calculating the economic benefits of the project, only the benefits generated
by the directly productive components--i.e., surface and groundwater irrigation,
orchards, forestry and livestock--have been considered. To analyze the economic
viability of each component, the ERR, PW and switching values of individual
productive component were calculated and are shown in Annex 8, Table 8. ERRs for
such components range from 23% (horticulture) to 12% (livestock). The economic
real flow for the total project is presented in Annex 8, Table 9. The following
outline the principal assumptions underlying the economic analysis:
(a) Project Life and Phasing. The project would have an anticipated life
of 50 years, including a five-year implementation period. Annual
crop production would reach full development within ten years, and
orchards, within 20 years. TJnder the forestry component, eucalyp-
tus would be harvested after twenty years and teak after 40. The
phasing of project benefits takes into account differences in
implementation rates and periods required for each productive com-
ponent to reach full development (para 6.01-6.08)
(b) Prices. For internationally traded goods, prices were derived from
projected 1984-1995 world market prices expressed in constant
February 1983 currency values. Appropriate adjustments were made for
freight, handling, processing and quality differentials.
Non-tradeable goods were expressed in border rupees through applica-
tion of a Standard Conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85. To adjust for
output foregone during the slack period, a 30% discount has been
applied to the wage market rate. Year specific prices have been used
for inputs and outputs over the 1984-1995 period, after which prices
were assumed to remain unchanged in real terms. Fuelwood produced on
project plantation has been valued on a kerosene basis.  Input and
output prices used in the economic analysis are summarized in Annex
8, Table 4.
(c) Benefits. Direct project benefits would be increased availability of
rice, vegetables, fruits, timber, fuelwood and livestock products.
Projected incremental production is based on crop yield, intensity,
and livestock yield estimates described in paras 6.01-6.08.
(d)  Investment Costs. All project costs, excluding those for social
infrastructure, are included in the analysis. Investments for sup-
porting services and feeder roads have been apportioned to productive
1/ Discounted at 10% p.a., estimated to be the opportunity cost of capital in Sri
Lanka.



-41-
components based on area benefitted. Investments in rural elec-
trification, ground- water exploration and fisheries were included
only in estimating the overall ERR.
(e) Production Costs. Per ha input requirements by crop as well as
livestock activity costs are specified in Annex 8, Tables 1-3. Total
farm labor requirements, including family labor, were valued accord-
ing to economic wages summarized in Annex 8, Table 4. Adjustment to
production cost streams was made to reflect realistically the stag-
gered incurrence of costs and derivation of benefits in agricul-
tural activities.
Project Risk and Sensitivity
7.06    Risks relating to the engineering and agronomic components are considered
relatively small. Executing agencies have experience in carrying out works
proposed, while project yields, intensities, and production techniques are cur-
rently observable on farmers' holdings within the Districts or in comparable areas
in other districts. Also, problems related to coordination and implementation,
often associated with multi-component projects, are not expected to be significant
for this project given Sri Lanka's success decentralized government. The proposed
management system is a replication of the one used in on-going RDPs, which has
proved satisfactory.
7.07    The poor quality of civil works in irrigation activities has been a common
problem throughout Sri Lanka and was experienced particularly in the early stages
of the Kurunegala RDP. However, it has now been overcome. To minimize this risk,
the project has hired planning consultants and would employ specialized staff to
supervise project civil works. Improved water management techniques, currently
being introduced in minor and major irrigation works within and outside Sri
Lanka's RDPs, are taking longer to implement than originally estimated. However,
results in some areas are encouraging. To strengthen and accelerate this effort,
the project would provide institutional support and training for the introduction
of water management. The project would also provide specialized agricultural
staff to supervise the project's agricultural components.
7.08     Sensitivity tests were performed to assess the impact of variations in
incremental costs and benefits. These tests indicate that the project would still
remain viable in the unlikely event that total project incremental costs increase
by up to 45% or that incremental benefits decrease up to the following percent-
ages: (a) major irrigation by 70%; (b) minor irrigation by 590%; (c) tubewells by
790%; (d) dug wells by 240%; (e) forestry by 150%; (f) livestock by 330%; hor-
ticulture by over 1,000%; or (f) overall incremental benefits by 30%. Sensitivity
test is shown in Annex 8, Table 8.



-42-
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01    Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that:
(a)  it would employ local engineering consultants to plan and design
irrigation works in terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA not
later than January 1, 1985 (para 3.09).
(b)  (i) all implementing agencies would prepare and maintain separate
project accounts, (ii) PDs would prepare and maintain consolidated
project accounts, (iii) project accounts would be audited annually by
an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA, (iv) copies of the
unaudited annual project accounts would be sent to IDA for review no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year and copy of
the audited report not later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year, and (v) the auditor's report would include, inter alia,
a statement that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure
were used for the purpose for which they were provided (para 4.07);
(c)  MPI would appoint and maintain a suitable Project Director for each
District, appointed in consultation with IDA (para 5.02);
(d)  it would establish and maintain a Project Coordination Committee in
each District (5.05);
(e)  it would employ suitable local consultants by January 1, 1984, to
evaluate project components under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA (5.10).
8.02    Conditions of credit effectiveness would be the signing of subsidiary
agreements between GOSL, PB and BC, specifying the agricultural credit procedures
to be followed under the project and establishing agricultural credit units, with
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 3.16).
8.03    With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of SDR's 21.4 M (US$23 M). The Borrower would be the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



43
ANNEX 1
Table A
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prciect Copornent bs Time
(RS. Million)
Total
Base   Costs            ---------------
(US$
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   RS,   Million)
A. PRODUCTIVE COMPONENTS
1. PLANTATION CROPS
IHORTICULT. 0EV.                      0.'    0.1    0,1   Ol    0.2    0.7          0.0
FORESTRY                              5.1    5.9    4,1    1.9    1.1   18.1         0.8
Sub-Total PLANTATION CROPS               5.4    5.9    4.2    2.0    1.2   18.8         0.8
2. IRRIGATION
MAJOR IRRIG.                         28,7   34.7   34.5   23,5   17.2  138o6         6.0
MINOR IRRI6.                          2.5    2.0    2.3    1.4    0,9    9.1         0.4
OW DEV. AND INV.                      6.8    2,3    1.1    1.1    1.    12.4         0.5
Sub-Total IRRIGATION                    38.1   38.9   37.9   25.9   19.2  160.1         7.0
3. SUPPORTING SERVICES
INPUT SUPPiY                          3,3    1.8    0.9    0.6    0,4    6.9         0.3
AGRIC. CREDIT                         3.1    3.4    6,0    8,3   13.2   33.?         1.5
ADAPT. RESEARCH I TRAIN.              4.1    2.1    1.1    0.9    0.8    9.1         0.4
LIVESTOCK                             6.1    6.7    1.9    0.8    0,7   16.3         0.,7
FISHERIES                             1.1    1.0    0.9    0.3    0.3    3.7         0.2
Sub-Total SUPPORTING SERVICES           17,7   15.0   10.7   10.9   15.5   69,9         3.0
Sub-Total PRODUCTIVE COMPONENTS            61.2   59,?   52.8   38.9   36.0  248.8         10,8
B. ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
1. RURAL ELECTRIFIC                      3,2    9.6    7.7   10,7    8.1   39.2         1.7
2. RURAL ROADS                          13.0    9.9   13.9   14.3    ?.3   60.4         2.6
Sub-Total ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE          16.2   19,5   21.6   24.9   17,4   99.6          4.3
C. SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1, HEALTH                                9.5    6.2    5,6    5.2    3.9   30.4         1.3
2. EDUCATION                             6.0   10.8   11.5    8.7    4.6   41.7         1.8
3. WATER SUPPLY                          1.0    1.1    1.9    1.0    0.2    5.2         0.2
Sub-Total SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE            16.6   18.0   19.1   14.9    8.7   77,2         3.4
D. MGT I COORD.                             9.8    2.7    3.5    3.1    3.1   22.3          1.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                         103,7  100,1   97.0   81.9   65.2  447.8        19,5
Phusical Contingencies                    12.0   12.1   11.5    9.1    6.1   50.8         2.2
Price Continsencies                       21.1   37I4   511 55.0   54,1  218.7           9,5
Total PROJECT COSTS                          136.8  149.6  159.6  146,0  125.4  717.3        31.2
Taxes                                      3,9    5.6    6.3    5,8    5.2   26.9         1.2
Foreign Exchange                          51.6   33.0   30.6   27.7   211.1  164.0        7.1



44
SRI LANKA                                               ANNEX  1
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MANNAR                                Table B
ProJect Component bu Time
(RS. Million)
Total
Base Costs         ---------------
(US$
1984 1985 1986 1987 1988  RS.   Million)
A. PRODUCTIVE COMPONENTS
1. PLANTATION CROPS
FORESTRY                            1.8  2.1  0.8  0.5  0.3    5.6         0.2
Sub-Total PLANTATION CROPS              1.8  2.1  0.8  0.5  0.3    5.6         0.2
2. IRRIGATION
MAJOR IRRIG,                       18.6 21.7 17.6  6.9  4.0   68.8         3.0
MINOR IRRIG.                        2.5  2.0  2.3  1.4  0.9    911         0.4
GW DEV. AND INV.                    1.8  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1    6.1         0.3
Sub-Total IRRIGATION                  22.9 24.7 21.0  9.4  6.0   84.0         3.7
3. SUPPORTING SERVICES
INPUT SUPPLY                        2.1  1.1  0.7  0.4  0.2    4.5         0.2
AGRIC. CREDIT                       1.6  1.7  3.0  4.1  6.4   16.7         0.7
ADAPT. RESEARCH S TRAIN.            1.3  0.7  0.5  0.4  0.4    3.4         0.1
LIVESTOCK                           1.5  4.8  0.9  0.4  0.3    7.9         0,3
FISHERIES                           1.1  1.0  0.9  0.3  0.3    3.7         0.2
Sub-Total SUPPORTING SERVICES           7.6  9.4  5.9  5.6  7.7   36.2         1.6
Sub-Total PRODUCTIVE COMPONENTS           32.3 36.3 27.7 15.5 14.0  125.8         5.'
B. ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
1. RURAL ELECTRIFIC                       -  1.6  2.2  6.5  5.0   15.3        C,7
2. RURAL ROADlS                        5.3  4.4  6.7  6.9  3.8   27.0        12
Sub-Total ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE          5.3  5.?  9.0 13.4  8.8   42.4        18
C. SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1. HEALTH                              4.7  3.1  3.0  3.0  2.1   15.8         0.7
2. EDUCATION                           2.6  2.8  3.4  2.6  1.8   13.3         0.6
3. WATER SUPPLY                         0.5  0.5  1.0  0.5  0.1    2.6        Q.t
Sub-Total SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE            7.8  6.4  7.4  6.1  4.0   31,'         1.4
D. MGT I COORD,                            5.1  1.5  1.9  1.7  1.7   11.         0..
Total BASELINE COSTS                        50.5 50.1 45.9 36.7 28.5  211.7         9,2
Physical Contingencies                    5.8  6.2  5.6  4.0  2.5   24.1         1.0
Price Continsencies                      10.5 18.9 24.7 24.8 23.2  102.1         4,4
Total PROJECT COSTS                         66.9 75.1 76.2 65.5 54.2  337.9        14.7
Taxes                                     2.0  2.9  3.1  2.6  2.1   12.8         0.6
Foreign Exchanle                         22.9 15.6 12.4 11.7 10.1   72,7         3.2



45
SRI LANKAANE                                                        
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - VAVUNIYA                                TAble  C
Project Cosponent bv Time
(RS. Million)
Total
Base Costs         ---------------
___   _    ___    _  _----------    e(US$
1984 1985 1986 1987 1988  RS.   Million)
A. PRODUCTIVE COMPONENTS
1. PLANTATION CROPS
HORTICULT. BEV.                     0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2    0.7         0.0
FORESTRY                            3.3  3.7  3.3  1.4  0.7   12.4         0.5
Sub-Total PLANTATION CROPS             3.5  3.8  3.4  1.5  0.9   13.2         0.6
2. IRRIGATION
MAJOR IRRIG.                       10.1 13.0 16.9 16.5 13.3   69.8         3.0
GW DEV, AND INV.                    5.1  1.2  0.0    -    -    6.3         0.3
Sub-Total IRRIGATION                  15.2 14.2 16.9 16.5 13.3   76.1         3.3
3. SUPPORTING SERVICES
INPUT SUPPLY                        1.1  0.7  0.2  0.2  0.2    2.4         0.1
AGRIC. CREDIT                       1.5  1.7  3.0  4.2  6.8   17.2         0.7
ADAPT. RESEARCH I TRAIN.            2.9  1.3  0.6  0.5  0.4    5.7         0.2
LIVESTOCK                           4.6  1.9  1.0  0.5  0.4    8.4         0.4
Sub-Total SUPPORTING SERVICES         10.1  5.6  4.8  5.3  7.8   33.7         1,5
Sub-Total PROIIUCTIVE COMPONENTS         28.8 23.6 25.1 23.4 22.0  122.9         5.3
B. ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
1. RURAL ELECTRIFIC                    3.2  8.0  5.5  4.2  3.0   23.9         1.0
2. RURAL ROADS                         7.8  5.5  7.2  7.4  5.5   33.4         1.5
Sub-Total ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE         10.9 13.5 12.7 11.6  8.5   57.2        2.5
C. SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1. HEALTH                              4-9  3.1  2.6  2.2  1.8   14.6         0.6
2. EDUCATION                           3.4  7.9  8.1  61  2.98  28.4          1.2
3  WATER SUPPLY                        0.5  0.5  1.0  0.5  0.1    2.6         0.1
Sub-Total SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE            8.7 11.6 11.7  8.8  4.7   45.5        2.0
D. MGT I COORD.                            4.7  1.2  1.6  1.5  1.5   10.4        0.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                        53.2 50.0 51.0 45.2 36.7  236.1        10.3
Physical Contingencies                    6.1  6.0  5.9  5.1  3.6   26.7         1.2
Price Contingencies                      10.6 18.5 26.4 30.2 30.9  116.6        5.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                         69.9 74.4 83.4 80.5 71.2  379.4        16.5
Taxes                                     2.0  2.7  3.2  3.2  3.0   14.1        0.6
Foreisn Exchange                         28.7 17.4 18.2 16.0 11.0   91.4        4.0



SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1. VAVUNIYA-HORTICCULTURALDEVELOPMENT
lietailed Cost Table
(RS. '000'
QuauetltB Base Costs                                                              Ph4.
------------------------------                  -------------------------------o--------- Cort          r,
Unrt    19T4 1985 1986 198' 1988 Total Unit Cost   1984  1985  1986   1987   1988  Total  Rate  Exch.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Irfrastructure
open Dus Well                                                  L           I 1    -    -    -    -       I          30   30.0      -        -- 30.0  0.15  0G15
Linona irxa. 1rrre>                                           Ha                                        1          20   20.0       -       -0.0  0.15  0.15
Sb-c-t;l Infrustructule                                                                                                       50.0                 -            -   50.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                            50.0     -        -       -       -   50.0
B. EOUIPMENT ANID VEHICLES
1. EquiFeret
..c-wheel Tractor                                             No          I    -                          50   500                 -       -       -        -   50.0   0.1   0,9
Trailes                                                        No          I                             1          25   25.0      -        -       -       -   25.0   0.1   0.9
Other Tractor Eajisgent                                        LS-       -      -     -     -            -                20.0     -        -       -       -   20.0    0,1    0.9
fo4ev Sprasel                                                  Nr.         22                                       12   24.0       -       -       -       -   24.0   0.1    0.9
Sub-Total ECouiment                                                                                                          119,0         -        -           -  119.0
Sub-Total EOUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                                                                                                119.0      -       -       -       -  119.0
C. CROF DEVELOPMENT
Firurcial Aist- for Manso and other Fruits ia                      Ha        10   15   20   25   30  1'00  s 5.00/Ha   23.8 44.4   69.4   98.8  123.8  360.0                   0   0.2
iltal INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                             192.8 44.4   69.4   98.8  123.8  529.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
KVS                                                             ;taff/saar       1    1    1    1    1        5            9    e,0  9.0       9.0     9.0    9.0   45.0  0.05          0
Labor                                                           staff/aear      I    2    2    2    2         9          6.5     cS  13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   58.5  0.05             0
Allowances /b                                                        LS        - - - - -                        -           -2.3 3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3  15.5 0.05    0
OtM of Ei&urment  r                                                  LS                     -         -11,9 11.9   11.9    11.9    11,9    59.5  0.05    0.1                                                        r
TIM of Cg;Wol roKvsd                                                 LS        -      -     -      -     -      -- 1.3  1.3                    1.3     1.3    1.3    6.3  0.05  0.35                                -rr
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                               31.0 38.5   38.5   38.5   38.5  184.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                                223.7 82.8  107.8  137,2  162.2  713,8
/a Per Ha cost as. foilowst Ist Yr-Fs 2375, 2nd to 4th Yr=Rs 875o,4.
'b  Calculated at 15% to 30. of basic salaro,
.c Calculated at IOX of initial costs.
,r Calc.iated at 2.5% of isn:tial costs.



47
ANNEX 1
SRI LAWN(A                                                                       Table  2
THIRD RLRAlL DEVELOPllENT PROJECT
Table 2. HANNAR - FORESTRY
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Quantita                                         Base Costs                   Phs.
------------ --------------------           -------------------------------------------- Cont. For.
Unit   1984  1985  1986 1987 198B Total Unit Cost  1984    1985    1986   1987   1988  Total   Rate  Exch.
1. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Building and Facilities
Houjing tor Forest Ranger                  No         -     1    -    -    -      1       135       -   135.0       -      -      -   135.0  0.15   0.1
Housing for Forest Guard                  No          1     -    -            -    -  I    90    90.0        -      -      -      -    90.0  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total Building and Facilities                                                                   90.0   135.0       -      -      -   225.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                  90,0   135.0       -      -      -  225.0
B. EOIUIPNENT AND VEHICLES
1. EQUIPMENT
Water Puap, Pipes I Nursery Tools          No         I     -    -    -    -      1        30    30.0               -      -      -    30.0   0.1   0.9
2. Vehicles
Itotorcacles                               No         I     -    -    -    -      1        32    32.0        -      -      -      -    32.0   0.1  0.9
Bieocles                                   No         I     -    -    -    -      1       2.5     2.5        -      -      -      -     2.5   0.1   0.9
3-Ton Truck                                No         1     -               -     1       220   220.0        -      -      -      -   220.    0.1  0.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                                 254.5        -      -      -      -   254.5
Sub-Total EOUIPNENT AND VEHICLES                                                                      284.5        -      -      -      -   284.5
C. CROP DEVELOPMENT
Labor for Hursers                        staft/sear      3     3    3    2          11       6.5   19.5    19.5  19.5   12.0         -    71.5     0   0.3
Operation of Nursers Puws                     LS            -    -    -    -         -              10.0    10.0    5.0    5.0       -    30.0      0   0.3
Fertilizer                                    LS         -     -    -    -      -     -5.0                   5.0    5.0    3.0       -    18.0      0   0.3
Polsethelene Pots                             LS         -     -    -    -           -              40.0   50.0   10.0  10.0         -   110.0      0   0.3
Site Survess                                  Ha       200   200    -    -    -   400        1.5  300.0   300.0        -      -      -   600.0      0     0
Forestro Plantation /a                        Ha       200   200    -    -    -   400    7.9/Ha   938.0 1.323.0  545.0  260.0  100.0 3,166.0        0   0.3
Palearah Seed Collection                      LS         -     -    -    -15.0   20.0   20.0   25.0  25.0   105.0                                  0   0.3
Sub-Total CROP DEVELOPMENT                                                                          1,327.5 1,727.5  604.5  316.0  125.0 4,100.5
D. TECHONICAL ASSISTANCE TRAINING
Forester Officer                           Trainee       -     2    -    -    -      2        25       -    50.0       -      -      -    50.0   0.1   0.9
Total INvESTHENT COSTS                                                                                  1,702.0 1,912.5  604.5  316.0  125.0 4.660.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
Forest Ranser                               staff/wear     1     1    1    1    1      5        12    12.0   12.0  12.0  12.0   12.0   60.0  0.05           0
Forest Wuard                                staff/seer     1     3    3    3    3    13         10    10.0    30.0   30.0  30.0  30.0   130.0  0.05         0
Clerical Staff                              staff/sear     1     2    2    2    2      7         9     9.0    18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   81.0  0.05        0
Driver                                      staff/sear     I     I    I    I    1      5         8     8.0      8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    40.0  0.05      0
Palwsrah Deyt. Officer /b                   staff/lear     1     2    2    2    2      9        20    20.0   40.0   40.0   40.0  40.0   180.0  0.05         0
Plantation Foreman /b                       staff/sear     I     I    I    I    1      5        16    16.0    16.0  16.0  16.0   16.0    80.0  0.05         0
Labor /c                                    staff/seer     I     I    I    I    1      5       6.5     6.5      6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    32.5  0.05      0
Allowances /c                                   LS         -     -    -    -    -      -              20.9    34.3   34.3  34.3   34.3  158.0  0.05         0
OUN of Vehicles /d                              LS         -     -    -    -    -      -              36.5    36.5  36.5  36.5   36.5   182.3  0.05   0.5
OWI of Buildings /e                             LS         -     -    -    -    -      -               2.3      5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    24.8  0.05  0.05
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                     141.1   206.9  206.9  206.9  206.9   968.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                     1,B43.1 2.119.4  811.3  522.9  331.9 5.628.5
/a  Per Ha cost. lst Yr-Rs 4,690; 2nd Yr-Rs 1925t 3rd Yr-Rs 800; 4th Yr-Rs 500.
/b For Paldirab Dev. Board.
/c Calculated at 15% to 30% of basic selara,
/d Calculated at 101 to 202 of initial costs.
/e Calculated at 2.5% of initial costs.



48
ANNEX I
SRI LANK                                                                        Table  3
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
lTble 3. VAVUUIYA - FORESTRY
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Ouantito                                           Base Costs                     Pho.
---------------------------------            ---------------------------------------------- Cont, For.
Unit   1984  1985  196  1987 1988 Total Unit Cost 1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   Total  Rate  Exch.
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Buildins and Facilities
Housing for ACF                            No               -     -    -    -      1       315   315.0        -       -       -      -    315.0  0.15   0.1
Housing for Forest Ranser                  No         I     1     -    -    -      2       190   190.0   190.0        -       -      -    380.0  0.15   0.1
Housins for Forest Guard                   No         1     -     -    -    -      1         0    90.0        -       -       -      -      90,0  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total Building and Facilities                                                                   595.0   190.0        -       -      -    785,0
Sub-Total CIVIL iWORS                                                                                  595.0   190.0                             785.0
B. EQUIPNENT AND VEHICLES
1. Evuipsent
Water Puep, Pips   Nursers Tools           No         1     -     -    -    -      1        50    50.0        -       -       -      -     50.0   0.1   0.9
Surves Eeisinent                           No         I        -                   I-       10    10.0        -                             10.0   0.1   0.9
Sundrs Eauipent                            No         1     -     -          -               5     5.0        -       -       -      -       5.0   0.1   0.9
Sub-Total Esuipnent                                                                                  65.0        -       -       -      -      65,0
2. Vehicles
4-vheel Drive                              Na         I     -     -    -    -      1       250   250.0        -       -       -      -    250.0   0.1   0.9
Notorcales                                 No         1     2     1    -    -      4        32    32.0    64.0   32.0         -      -    128.0   0.1   0.9
Bicrcles                                   No         2     4     -    -    -      6       2.5     5.0    10.0        -       -      -     15.0   0.1   0.9
3-Ton Truck t/a                            No         1     -     -    -    -      1       220   220.0        -       -       -      -    220.0   0.1   0.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                                  507.0   74.0   32.0          -      -    613.0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                                                                       572.0    74.0   32.0         -      -    678.0
C. CROP EVELOPIfNI
Labor for Nurser.j                       staff/wear      6     6     2    -    -    14        6.5    39.0    39.0    13.0        -      -     91.0      0   0.3
Opration ot Nursera Puws                      LS         -     -      -               -               10.0    10.0     5.0     5.0      -      30.0     0   0.3
Fertilizer for Nursery                        LS         -     -     -                               15.0    15.0    10.0      5.0      -      45.0     0   0.3
Polvethelmne Pats                             LS         -     -      -                              60.0    95.0   80.0    30.0   10.0   275.0         0   0.3
Site Surveys                                  Ha       300   400   300    -    - 1P000        1.5  450.0   600.0   450.0         -      -  1,500.0      0     0
Forestre Plantation /b                        Ha       300   400   300    -    - 1.000    7.8/Ha 1,407.0 20453.5 2,417.0 1,047.5  440.0  7.765.0        0   0.3
Sub-Total CROP DEVELOPIENT                                                                           1,981.0 3,212.5 2P975.0 1.087.5  450.0  9,706.0
D. TEINICAL ASSISTAICE TRAINING
Forester Officer                           Trainee       -     2     -    -    -      2        25       -    50.0        -       -      -     50.0   0.1   0.9
TrAtl INVESTMEIT COSTS                                                                                  3.148.0 3.526.5 3,007.0 1,087.5  450.0 11,219.0
11. RECWRENT COSTS
ACF                                         staff/wear     -     -      1    1    1     3        26       -        -    26.0   26.0   26.0       78.0  0.05     0
Forest Ranger                               staff/wear     1     2      3    3    3    12         12    12.0   24.0    36.0   36.0   36.0    144.0  0.05        0
Forest Guard                                staff/vear     1     3      4    5    5    18        10    10.0    30.0    40.0   50.0   50.0    180.0  0.05        0
Clerical Staff                              staff/veer     1     2      2    2    2     9         9      9.0    18.0    18.0    18.0   18.0      81.0  0.05     0
Driver                                      staff/wear     1     2     2    2    2      9         8     8.0    16.0    16.0    16.0  16.0        72.0  0.05     0
Allowances /c                                   LS         -     -      -    -    -     -                4.5     9.0    19.2    19.2  19.2       71.1  0.05     0
oUn of Vehicles /d                              LS                                                      B6.7   94.1    97.3    97.3  97.3    472.7  0.05   0.5
Oti of Buildings /e                             LS                                                      14.9   19.6    19.6    19.6  19.6    93.4  0.05  0.05
OIN of Emuipeent /f                             LS                                                       6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5    6.5      32.5  0.05   0.5
Total REWPNT COSTS                                                                                         151.6  217.2  278.6  288.6  288.6  1,224.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                     3.299.6 3.743.7 3,285.6 19376.1  738.6 129443.7
/a For distributing seedlings in Nv.t Nan.
/b Per Ha cost' 1st Yr-Rs 4,690; 2nd Yr-Rs 1.925; 3rd Yr-Re 800, 4th Yr-Rs 500.
Ic  Calculated at 15% to 302 of basic sulev.
/d Calculated at 107 to 20M of initial costs.
Ie Calculated at 2-52 of initial costs.
/t Calculated at 102 of initial costs.



.~~~~~~ Y!j                                      D                                   - 
*, *              s    _    . 4      _         O          s     . - . .. .   . , .- .  . ,   -,. ', .,    ,,,      s                                lN      ,o     - 4 
,  . >. o  o tJ3> o s S ~    eJ _ _ w |8 _ _ E S tjtv _ w _ g o s _ o o og ,,_ ' - o C   2 
o; W 0 o o o  > o ,1 o, oI                                                                 o-.
!  !StuS>Yooo>S    ,!M!9!s  ,-J!>-aooooo-ws                              o olOoSt  o0 t--0>-0t w-0-r ~- 
aasMaaaa                 _          tooo;oo                             000              00OOOO OOO                                  r
;a>O OO       4,                O          o;ooo-                                         --5.''                                             wi                   t=
22222~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
*  '  4-.4,.',4-4,4-4  ,  4,,  4-t44-4.4  44,        4                                         ,   2128 ~    ~ ~  ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~_ 
*  4-',4-4-.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 4.4  4-  4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4   4 4 4 4 4 , 4 4             '.44.44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4(.~*     



AN-NEX I
SRI LANKATal   5
THIRD RURAL 0000L8P4ENT 98J1CT
Table 5. YAM IY19 - 4AJ3 IRRIOA7198
Detailed Cost Table
(RS.  IO
bsartits                                            Base Costs                         Ph,.
------------------- -Unit                    -------------------------        -    -     C.s,Fr
Irit     1984  lIS       6  19V8IC   1988  Total Cast   19       0905     1986      1 987     1988    To,tal   Rate  Each.
0. i1 WE1T9ENT COSTS
A. CMSL M SRR
1. 8oldiass is Fac,ilities
Tae,  H,oaso, Theats I OFfice            .2         100   100    ST      -          250    2     200.8    200.0    100.0          -         -    508.8  8.12   0.1
1eteraltoe             .1                            81    AT      -     -      -    88O   2      81.0      88.0         -        -         -    18 .8 12   5
Oil-Total Buldiass ea   Facilties                                                                   290.0    280.0    100.0                         6  80.1
Kalcoals Tart                            Ha          88    50    45      -      - 168   26  1,560.0  1,430.0  1,178.80                         4,160.0  0.15  0.15
Cherasaado Tac                           Ha          55    65    01   45        - 245   20  1,100.0  1,300.0  8,600.0    900.0              -4,900.0  0.15  8.85
fehe,e.biculaa                            Ia         90      -  -     -      -       90   18    980.0          - -           -         -         900.8  0,11  0,15
aacod-i  Tac                             Ha           -   l6T   885    80       - 405 12.5           -2.808,8  2,062.2  1,080.0             -5,08225   0.11  0.15
4a8d.kaode  cr                           8a           -    So   BOS      -      - 688 12.5          I- 1,00.0  1,088.0            -         -2.D0088  8.12  0.15
l8ihattarkilat                ~~~          ~    ~~Ha  - 65   100   160  - 325   28            1 ,200.0  2,008.0  3,280.0         -6,580.0  8.15  0.12
0,ateriaft ubI.                          40           -    2      88    98 D        228 12.2              625.0  8,888,8  1,125.80             2,750.0  0.15  0.11
Peria Th-raci Tack                       Ha          OS    82    40       -     - 160   20  1,600.0  1,300.0    800.8             -         -  1200.8  0.05  0.12
Ocoocao Ta.k                             Ha           -     -     45    70    80   875 12.5          -         -    582.5      a87.0    750,8  2,147.5  0.15  0.15
larks st ta he  Iaet,,d                  Ha           -      - I       220  '300   678   35          -         -5,250.0  7,900.0 18,586.8 23.450.0  1.15  0.15
Sob-Total loT,atru,,ure                                                                           4,680.0  8,953.0 15,445.0 14.88000 80,25M.  55,110.0
Ito-Total CIVIL 40450                                                                                4,940.0  9,205.0 15.545.0 14.800,0 00,258.8 55,778,8
8. 888I84ENT MD11 E9HICLERS
a lit, Castrol Urit                    1L                                                 408.0    60.0.          -                  -  1,888.0   0.1   0.9
S-rar  Irtrrets                          LS-               -     -             -      -          218.80                 - -                      2100.   0.1   8.9
Far Trato  aith Traler                   Mo           3            -     -      -     3  250    750.0          -        -         -         -    750,8 00  0.9 
2-ton Trailer8o, Do-8                                              -  6               6 50    000.8            -                                  00.8   8.0   0.9
lbrator  Roller                         90           2                               I 2   00    200.0        -        -         -         -    200.8   0.0   0.9
Oraftisog Machire                        No           2      -     -            -     2 108    20.0            -        -         -         -     20.0   0.0   0.9
horn, I D,esa's baste.                   LS  S--                  -      -            -            0.          -                                   5. 8.0 1l .9
T-rerter                                 NOa          2                               3 0 13      39.0                                            3       9.8   0.1   0.4
Olrice Eosie-et                          LS                                                08.8 0                                          10.0   0.1   0.4
Fo,nitre                                 LS-               -      -             -      -          40.0         -        -         -         -     40.8   8.1   0.4
Sat-Total Ecoortet                                                                                2,004.8    880.0          -        -         -2,604.0
2. Veiaooe
4-eheel Droio Diese                      M.           3     -                             258    250.0         -        -         --             750,8   8.8   8.9
3-toolr                                  Wa           2     - No   2                  2  220    4480.8 0                                         440.8   S  0.9 
Boooe                                 90           2      -3                          2.5       1.5         -                  -         -      7.5   0.108.9
Sati-Total Yehirle                                                                                1,091.5         -        -         -         -1.197.5
Sat-Tustal EQUOIPMENT AN8 VERIOtES                                                                   1,200.5   08.8 0                               3,8801.5
C. TECHNIICAL 8881I0T840 WO4 TRA1N1NG
I. P-maroo Coesoltacts
Tea. Leader                          Lstaf/amonth     4     6                        II   18      75.8    180.0         -         -        -     188.0   8.1      8
Plannar/OEtlineer                    stafltt/st    1.3    86                        7.3  [5       09.8    900. 4                                 188.8   0.1      0
Orsoa  Enuirreer                     stafl3aetlh  00.5   100                       28.5   12    138.8    020.0          -         -        -     258.0   0.1      8
Osrerslleaeistjtrarsoeost   statR/.oslh   1.3      4     -5.2   02                       85.8     48.          -                  -     8.0   8.1        0
TerlSical Asses"t"etlorafttsaa       stat?Iscth  19.8    88                        84.9  4.5      88.9     M225                                  381.4   0.1      0
losetestieo  tFielId CanaOs           %89.0                                                             00.0         -         -        -     188.0   0.8      0
Field IssiitasI Sortie                   LS226.0    208.0                                                              -         -        -     428.0   0.1      0
AllIoaLSe 10235.8    500.0                                                                                              -7  95.0   0.1 
0verHead are Fritt                       LS382.5    757.03                                                                                    1,839,8   0.1   0.2
St-Total Flamrese  Cens,,Itaots                                                                   1,312.1  2,225.8         -         -         -  3,537,9
2. Trailo
Trejoers en Nats, ralt.               IrAinev;             108    2  10 18  88       00    0         -     50.0      50.0      58.8     58.0    200.8   0.0       0
Set-Total TED89I0AL A101IS4(A1E AND T1I81N                                                           1,012.1  2,225.8      50.0      58.0     50.0  3,722.9
Total IMMINENNT COSTS                                                                                   9,453.6 12,110.9 15,595.0 14,050.0 01,308.8 83,389.4
08ie  Eroiree                             stat towe        I      I     I      I     I     5   35      38.1      38.0     35,8      35.0      25.0    175.8  0.05      0
Techerera IRssistant                      statf/Wea,       3      5     4     4      4    19 14,5      43.3      58.0     38,8      38.0      58.0    015.5  8,05      0
Osersere                                  etaff/warer             4     7     7      7    25   00         -      40.0     70,0      00.0      70.0    250.0  8,05      0
Dra0ttsa                                  stattjoeer       2      2     2      2     2    19   12      24.1      26.0     28.0      26.0      26.0    130.1  0.85      8
Clerial Stat /Toedst                      stattdwea        5      5     5     5      5    235    9     45.8      45.0     45.0      45.0      45,0    225.0  0.95      8
Deba ws.160/war                                           10    1I    18    to    to    58    8        sol.      00.0     88,8      88.0      80.0    400.0  8.05      0
L.bre,                                    statto ee        3      5     5      5     5    23  6.5      09.5      33.5     32.5      32.5     02.5    149.5  0.05       0
Allooararns /a                     10~~~LS            -     -     -      -                49.1      61.4      76.4     76,4      78.4    048.9  8.88       0
NiclceesSaI.                           1-530.0                                                              -         -         -        -      30.8  0.05   0.2
of8 athuecl n lb                            tS158.8    050.9    150.8    138.8    158.8    153.7  0.05   8.5
0OM  at CMs  torks /0                         LS023.5    354.4    743,0  0,113.0  1,394.3  3,728.8  0.05                                                              0
iselieeSw lanI                         LS-30.8                                                                   -              -        -      30.0  0.05  0.88
Total REC08T  COSTS                                                                                       832.4    889,1  1,31.7  0,686.7  1,967,9  6.492.7
Tatal INISILINE 00910                                                                                    10,088.8 12,999.0 16,911,7 18,536.2 13,267.9 69821
/a  eC,alaited at 155 to 302 of basio sler.
lb   ulmeaSated8  18% So 20  of initial cots,.
IC Caleslated at 2,52 of inetial cost.



51
ANNEX I
SRI LAMA                                                                      Table  6
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6. MNANNR - MINOR IRRIGATION
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '900)
Quantit3                                    Base Costs                    Pho.
------------------------------ Unit ---------------------------------------------- Cont. For,
Unit    1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 Total Cost  1984    1985    1986    1987    1988  Total  Rate  Exch.
I, INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Buildings and Facilites
TEw . Housir,s. Sheds I Office         No        I    I    I    -    -      3   50    50.0    50.0    50.0         -      -   1500  0.15  0.15
2. Infrastructure
Rehabilitation of Minor Tanks          No       10   15   20   10    5    60   95   950.0 1,425.0 1900.0  958.0  475.0 5,700,0  0.15  0.15
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                     1,000,0 1,475.0 1f950.0   950.0  475.0 5,850.0
B. EQUIPMENT AND vEHICLES
1. EauipRent
Tractor with Trailer                   No        0    -    -    -           1  250   250.0        -       -        -      -   250.0   0.1   0.9
kater Bowser                           No        1    -    -    -    -       150    50.0          -       -        -      -    50.0  0.1   0.9
Vibrator                               No        2    -    -    -           2 25    50.0          -       -        -      -    50.0   0.1   0.9
Photocopier                            No        I    -    -    -    -      1  115   115.0        -       -        -      -   115.0   0.1   0.4
Tgpewriter                             No        2    -    -    -    -      2   13    26.0        -       -        -      -    26.0   0.1   0.4
Duplicating llachine                   No        1    -    -    -    -      1  35    35.0         -       -        -      -    35.0  0Q1  0.4
Furniture                              LS        -    -    -    -    -      -          20.0       -       -        -           20.0   0.1  0,4
Sub-Total Esuipsent                                                                      546.0       -       -        -      -   546.0
2. Vehicles
4-wheel Drive Diesel                   No        2    -    -    -    -      2  250   500.0        -       -        -      -   500.0   0.1   0,9
Motorcocle                             No        5    5    -    -    -    10   32   160.0   160.0         -        -      -   320.0  0.1   0.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                       660.0   160.0       -        -      -   820.0
Sub-Total EQUIPIIENt AND VEHICLES                                                         19206.0   160.0        -       -      - 1,366.0
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
Training                               Trainee      -    5    5    5    5    20    6         -    30.0    30.0    30.0   30.0   120.0   0.1       0
Total IN9ESTIENT COSTS                                                                       2,206.0 1,665.0 1,980.0  980.0  505.0 7.336.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
Technical Otficer                       staff/wear    2    2    2    2    2    10 14.5    29.0    29.0    29.0    29,0   29.0   145.0  0.05         0
Work Supervisor                         staff/vear    2    2    2    2    2    10   10    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0  20.0   100.0  0.05          0
Drivers/Operators                       staff/wear    4    4    4    4    4    20    8    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0   32.0   160.0  0.05         0
Clerical Staff/Twpist                   staff/wear    2    2    2    2    2    10    9    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0   18.0    90.0  0.05         0
Allowances /a                               LS         -    -    -    -    -      -         23.8    23.8    23.8   23.8   23.8   119.0  0.05        0
Office and Survew Supplies                  LS         -    -    -    -    -      -         50.0        -       -       -      -    50.0  0.05   0.2
asK of Vehicles /b                          LS         -    -    -    -    -      -        116.0   132.0   132.0   132.0  132.0   644.0  0.05   0.5
OI of Civic Works /c                        LS         -    -    -    -    -      -         25.0    61.9   110.6   134.4  146.3   478.1  0.05  0.05
Total RECtRREYT COSTS                                                                          313.8   316.7   365.4   389.2  401.1 1,786.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                          2,519.8 1,981.7 29345.4 1,369.2  906.1 9,122.1
/a Calculated at 05Z to 302 of basic salar,.
/b Calculated at IOZ to 202 of initial costs.
/c Calculated at 2.51 of initial costs.



52
ANNEX I
SRI LANKA                                                                Table  7
THIRD RURAL. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 7. 9IANAR - OROUNDATER DEVELOPIIENT
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Ouartits                                    Base Costs                      Phv.
------------------------------ Unit ----------------------------------------------- Cont. For.
Unit    1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 Total Cost  1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   Total   Rate  Exch.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
------------Ir---
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Infrastructure
Temporarv Sheds I Stores                No         I    -    -    -    -      1   40    40.0        -       -       -        -    40.0  0.15  0.15
Investisatiors                          LS         - - - - -                  -         20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0   100.0  0.15  0.15
Corstruction of 8-in wells              No         3    3    3    3    3    15   40   120.0   120.0   120.0   120.0   120.0   600.0  0.15  0.15
Construction of Puuehouse               No        3    3    3    3    3    15   20    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0   300.0  0.15  0.15
Installing Turbine Puws                 No        3    3    3    3    3    15   30    90.0    90.0    90-0    90.0    90.0   450.0  0.15  0.15
Construction of Channel Suite.          No         3    3    3    3    3    15   80   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0 1,200.0  0.15  0.15
Sub-Total Infrastructure                                                                  570.0  530.0   530.0  530.0   530.0 2o690.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                        570.0   530.0   530.0   530.0   530.0 2,690.0
B. EOUIPtlENT AND VEHICLES
1. Eauip ent
Turbine Puups                           No        3    3    3    3    3    15  120   360.0   360.0   360.0   360.0   360.0 1,800.0   0.1   0.9
Office Eouip. I Furniture               LS        -    -    -    -    -       -         95.0        -       -       -        -    95.0   0.1   0.4
Sub-Total Eauipsent                                                                       455.0   360.0   360.0   360.0   360.0 1,895-0
2. Vehicles
4-wheel Drive Diesel                    No        2    -    -    -    -       2  250   500,0        -       -       -        -   500.0   0.1   0.9
1otorcvcles                             No         2    -    -    -    -      2   32    64.0        -       -       -        -    64.0   0.1   0.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                        564.0        -       -       -            564.0
Sub-Total EOUIPIENT AND VEHICLES                                                           1,019.0   360.0   360.0   360.0   360.0 2,459.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                         1t589.0   89.0   890.0   890. 0   890.0 5,149,0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
__ _________ __
Technical Officer                        staff/Year    I    I    I    I    1    5 14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5    72.5  0.05           0
Technical Assistant                      staff/sear    I    I    I    I    1       5   12    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    60.0  0.05        0
Driver                                   staff/sear    I    I    I    I    1       5    8      8.0     8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0    40.0  0.05      0
Alloiances /a                                LS         -    -    -    -    -      -          5,9      5.9     5.9     5.9      5.9    29.5  0.05      0
Otl of Vehicles /b                           LS         -    -    -    -    -      -        106.4   106.4   106.4   106.4   106.4   532.0  0.05   0.5
07K of Infrastructure /c                     LS         -    -    -    -    -      -          14.3    27.5    40.8    54,0    67.2   203.8  0.05  0.03
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                            161.1   174.3   187.6   200.8   214.1   937.8
======= ======= ======= ======= ======= =======
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                            1,750.1 1i064.3 tO77.6 1,090.8 1,104.1 6,086.8
/a Calculated at 15X to 30Z of basic salars,
lb Calculated at 10% to 20% of initial costs.
/c Calculated at 2.5% of initial costs.



SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DE9ELOPlENT PROJECT
Table 8. VAWNIYA - GROUNDATER INVESTIGATION
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Guantite                                Base Costs              Phw.
-------------------------------- Unit ----------------------------------    Cont. For.
Unit 1984  1985  1986 1987 1988 Total Cost 1984   1985  1986 1987 1988 Total  Rate Exch.
i. INVESTENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VORKS
1. Infrastructure
Aerial Photo Interpretation /a           LS       -    -   -   -    -         -      1,250.0  750.0    -   -   - 2000.0  0.15   0.5
Drilling 14 inch rotarN overburden        ft  1,800  200    -   -   - 2,000 0.25   450.0   50.0    -   -   -  500.0  0.15   0.5
Supp. I Plas. 8-inch PVC casing          ft   19350  150   -   -   - 1,500 0.2  270.0   30.0    -   -   -   300,0  0.15   0.5
Supp. 8-inch PMC I Place in borehole      ft    700  100   -   -    -   800 0.4  280.0   40.0    -   -   -  320,0  0.15   0.5
Cement 6routing                          No      45    5    -   -   -    50   2   90.0   10.0    -   -   -   100.0  0.15   0.5
Drilling 6-inch borehole in hard rack     ft  4,500  500    -   -    - 5,000  0.4 1,800.0  200.0    -   -   - 2,000.0 0.15   0.5
Developing well with compressed air      Hrs    225   25   -   -   -   250    1  225.0   25,0    -   -   -   250.0  0,15   0.5
Sup. I Inst. well head capping            No     45    5   -   -   -    50   5   225.0   25.0    -   -   -  250.0  0.15   0.5
Analusis of water sawles from wells      No      60   20    -   -   -    80  0.5   30.0   10.0    -   -   -    40.0  0.15   0.5
Conducting Pumping tests                  No     45    5    -   -   -    50  10  450.0   50.0    -   -   -  500.0  0.15   0.5
Report Preparation                       LS       -    -    -   -   -         -          5.0   10.0 10.0    -   -    25.0  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total Infrastructure                                                                5,075.0 1,200.0 10.0    -   - 6,285.0
Sub-Total CIVIL IORKS                                                                      5,075.0 1200.0 10.0    -   - 6,285.0
Total INVESTIENT COSTS                                                                        5.075.0 1.200.0 10.0    -   - 6,285.0
c_====-  -------   ---- ==    ,=  ==_====
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                          5.075,0 1.200.0 10.0    -   - 6,285.0
a     ld     c opa-e                    sac------a-------------------a---------------------------------------b-o----------- 1 
/a Including cost of Photographvt geophusical survev. and geological mapping of about 1000 ka.



54
SRI LAKA                                                                ANNEX 1
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROECT                                                    Table  9
Table 9. MANNAR - INPUT SUPPLIES
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Duantita                                   Base Costs                    Phy.
------------------------------ Unit --------------------------------------- Cont. For.
Unit   1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 Total Cost  1984    1985    1986   1987   1988  Total   Rate  Exch,
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Buildings and Facilities
District Office /a                                  No      -     -    -     -    -     -     - 480.0   320.0         -       -      -   800.0  0.15   0.1
Fertilizer and Seed Stores /b                       No        1    1    2    2    -      6   75    75.0    75.0  150.0  150.0        -   450.0  0.15   0.1
Agr. Ser, Center /c                                 No        I    -    1    -    -      2  260   260.0        -  260.0       -      -   520.0  0.15   0.1
Dunnage for all stores /b                           No        3    5    5    5    3    21    3       9-0    15-0   15.0  15.0    9.0    63.0  0.15   0.1
Staff Quarter Al /d                                 No        -    1    -    -           1  315        -   315.0       -      -      -   315.0  0.15   0.1
Staff Quarter KVS /d                                No        1    -    -    -    -      1  190   190.0        -      -       -      -   190.0  0.15   0.1
Garages for Tractors /b                             No        5    5    -    -    -    10   20   100.0   100.0         -      -      -   200.0  0.15   0.1
Improve,ents to Seed Processing Center /d           LS        -    -    -    -    -      -          50.0       -      -       -      -    50.0  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total Buildings and Facilities                                                                  19164.0   825-0  425,0  165.0    9,0 2Y588.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                  1,164.0   825.0  425.0  165.0 - 9.0 2P588.0
B. EQUIPKENT AND vENICLES
1. Eauip ent
Generator 12 Kw /e                                 No         1    -    -    -    -      1  100   100.0        -      -       -      -   100.0   0-1   0.9
2. Vehicles
5-ton Truck                                         No        1    -    -    -    -      1  355   355.0        -      -       -      -   355,0   0.1   0.9
4-wheel Drive Diesel                               No         1    -    -    -    -      1  250   250.0        -      -       -      -   250.0   0.1   0.9
Motorccles                                         No        2    2    -    -    -      4   32    64.0    64.0        -      -      -   128.0   0.1   0.9
Bicycles                                            No        5    5    5    -    -    15  2.5    12.5    12.5   12.5         -      -    37-5   0.1   0.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                                    681,5    76.5   12.5       -      -   770.5
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                                                                         781.5    76.5   12.5       -      -   870.5
Total INVESITMENT COSTS                                                                                   1.945.5   901.5  437.5  165.0    9.0 3,458.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
______________
Agricultural Instructor                              staff/cear    1    1    1    I    1      5   15    15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0  15.0    75.0  0.05          0
KVS                                                  staff/sear    1    1    1    1    1      5   10    10.0    10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    50.0  0.05        0
Driver                                               staff/t ear    1    1    1    1    1     5    8      8.0     8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    40.0  0.05       0
Allowances /f                                            LS        -    -    -    -    -      -           5-7     5.7    5,7    5.7    5.7    28.5  0.05       0
ODM of Vehicles /d                                       LS        -    -    -    -    -      -          98.4   106.1  107.3  107.3  107.3   526,4  0.05   0.5
GIN of Eeuipeent /h                                      LS        -    -    -                 -         10-0    10.0   10-0   10.0  10.0    50.0  0.05   0.4
01) of Buildinas /i                                      LS              -    -    -          -          29.1   49.7   60.4   64.5   64.7   26844  0.05  0.05
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                       176.2  204.5  216.4  220.5  220.7 1038.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                       2,121.7 1,106.0  653.8  385.5  229.7 4.496,7
/a 400 .2 at Rs 2.000fm2 for DAS.
/b  For DAS,
/c  130 .2 at Rs 2.000/a2 for DAS.
/d  For Dept. of Agric,
/e  For Seed Processing Center,
/f  Calculated at 152 to 30% of basic salary.
/s  Calculated at IOZ to 20% of initial costs.
/h Calculated at 10 of initial costs.
/i Calculated at 2.5T of initial costs.



55
SRI LAN~A                                                 ANNEX  1
THIRD RURL DEVELOPiNT PROJECT                                       Table  10
Table 10. VAVMIYA - INPUT SUPPLIES
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Duantits                                  Base Costs                   Phu.
-------------------------Unit --------------------------------------- Cont, For,
Unit 1994 1985 186 1987 1988 Total Cost 1984    1985   1986   1987   1988  Total  Rate  Exch.
I. INYESTKENT COSTS
_________ ____
A. CIVIL MORKS
__________ _
1. Building and Facilities
District Office /a                            No     -    -    -    -    -      -        480,0  320,0       -      -      -   800.0  0.15   0.1
Fertilizer and Seed Stores /b                 Ko     1    2    1    1    1      6  75    75.0  150.0  75.0  75.0  75.0   450.0  0.15   0.1
Dunnage for All Stores                        No    10    5    5    2    -    22    3    30.0  15.0   15.0   6.0          -    66.0  0.15   0.1
Seed Store /c                                 No     -    -    -    -    -      -         52,4   35.0       -      -      -    87,4  0,15   0.1
Improvewents to Existins Seed Store Id        LS     -    -    -    -    -      -         50.0       -      -      -      -    50.0  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total Building and Facilities                                                           687.4  520.0   90.0   81,0   75.0 1V453.4
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                           687,4  520.0  90.0   81.0   75,0 1,453.4
B. EMIUIPNENT AND VEHICLES
1. Eeuipment
Air Conditioner 2000 BTY                      No     2       -       -    -     2   15    30.0       -      -      -      -    30.0   0.1   0.9
Office Esuip. I Telep.                        LS     -                          -          15.0  15,0       -      -      -    30.0   0.1   0.4
Sub-Total Eauipment                                                                           45.0   15.0      -      -       -    60.0
2. VAehicles
4-wheel Drive JeeP                            No     1    -    -    -    -      1 250   250.0        -      -      -      -   250.0   0.1   0.9
Hotorcscles                                   No     2    2    -    -    -      4   32    64.0   64.0       -      -      -   128.0  0,1   0.9
Bicscles                                      No    5    5    5    -    -    15  2.5    12.5   12.5   12.5         -      -    37.5  0.1   0.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                          326,5   76.5   12.5       -       -   415.5
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                                                                371.5   91.5   12.5      -       -   475.5
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                           1,058.9  611.5  102.5  81.0  75.0 19928.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
01K of Vehicles /e                                 LS  -48,4   59.2   60.5  60.5  60.5   288.9  0.05   0.5
O'I1 of Eauipeent /f                               LS -4.5  6.0  6.0  6,0  6.0  28.5 0.05  0.4
OUI of Buildings /g                                LS  -17.2  30.2   32.4   34.5  36.3   150.6  0.05  0.05
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                               70,0   95,4   98.9  100.9  102.8   468,0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                              1.129,0  706.8  201.4  181.9  177.8 2,396.9
/a 400 a2 at Rs 2y000/S2 for DAS,
/b For DMS.
/c 38 e2 at Rs 2,300/22 with insulated walls for Department of Agriculture.
/d Access doors for crossed ventilation.
/e Calculated at 10% to 202 of initial costs.
/I Calculated at 10X of initial costs,
/g Calculated at 2.5% of initial costs.



56
ANNEX 1
SRI LiA                                                           Table 11
TFin lRli REiLiT PIOJECT
Tabdl 11. IMO - ARIC.LTtJ1L CtEtIT
Btilsd Cost Table
(2R. 000)
W.2ity                                      la.  ats                       Obo.
Wntitt                                               CBt. For.
tbit  1094 I     1006 107  1006  Total Cast 104    105    100         1907    190     Total   R E Ch.
1. IOWSW TCtTS
A. EllJIPEdT AN YEtICLES
1. Webicls
4-1uu  Brie /a                     O        I   -    -    -      -      1 250  250.0         -       -      -       -    250.0  0.1   0.9
iotorcols,l 122 ccb               No       4   2   2    2        -    10  t2       .0   64.0   64.0   64.0          -    320.0   0.1  0.9
Sud-Total Whiele                                                                   378.0   64.0    4.0    64.0        -   570.0
Sub-Total ESUIPNOT MB  MI211CLES                                                       379.0   64.0   64.0   64.0          -   570.0
B. ABBI TtiDM  tlEDI  hc
OBP  BWi Mills                       No      20   30   60   90  150   350  30   600.0  900.0 I10OO.O 2,700.0 4,500.0 10-500.O         0 0.I5
Dratt biuals                         No      20  30  40    50   60   200    4   90.0  120.0  160.0  200.0  240.0   *00.0    0               0
Hand lprars                          No      20   30  S0   100  100  300    I   20.0    O.0   50.0  100.0  100.0   200.0             0   0.7
fPusa  (kroas/ecttit)                 No      30  40  t0   110 'I"    450    7  210.0  290.0  560.0  770.0 1,330.0  3,150.0           O   0.7
Oi r far Esuiprnt                    lb      20   30   40   50   60  200  1.5   30.0   45.0   60.0   75.0   90.0   300.0              0   0.6
LWd laroyeot /d                       Ka      20  20   20   20   20   100    8   16.0  160.0  160.0  160.0  160.0   900.0    0  0.15
Sub-Total AiltMLTUttL C0IT lc                                                        1,100.0 1,525.0 2,790.0 4,005.0 6.420.0  S.iS50.O
C. TECICAL ASSISTNCE AN TRAINI0N
Overseas Training  hb              TrinlC    2    2   2    -        -     6  50   100.0  100.0  100.0          -       -   200.0  0.1   0.9
TotalI iNSE0T ClSTS                                                                     1,570.0 1,6W9.0 2,954.0 4,069.0 6,420.0 16,720.0
Total iASELiE COST                                                                      1,570.0 1,699.0 2,954.0 4,069.0 6,420.0 16,720.0
fa aoe ter n.
/b Five for each PI aed K.
/c  Inclusin of asers doura      nt miyalert to 202 of iestiat cost.
/d  Includes 10.25 Ma/sr tor settlers wider tlw i   brouifater Bev. Ptoarah,
ANNEX 1
Table 12
SRI LigW
THIRD 1RAL ;V2iT    PRO.ECT
Table 12. W9fl1A - hilCiLXTti.L CE1T
-etailed Cost Table
(RS. X000)
wititv                                         ae Custs                    Pht.
nit -----I- ---                                                           -     Coot. For.
Unit  1904 105 1006  107 9   .i0  Total Cut  1904    1905    1196    1907    i0    Total   Gts EXCh.
1. iwMSlE)T CDSTS
A. E0IPOtT AIN OliCLES
1. ehicles
4-heel Dri  Diffml /a              ND      I   -      -    -    -        0 250  250.0        -       -       -       -    250.0   0.   0.9
otarooles, 125 cc/b hN                     4    2    2    2        -    10  32   128.0   64.0   64.0   64.0               320.0  0.1   0.9
Sub-Ttal Yshie  s                                                                   271.0   a4.0   64.0    -.0               570.0
lSTotal E0IPEtiT MS t4ICLES                                                            378.0   64.0    64.0   64.0        -    570.0
B. IMRilLTilUL UtlT le
OWs DiM Wills                        NO      20   30    60   00   150   350   30  600.0   900, 1-030.0 2.700.0 4,500.0 10,10.0         0  0.15
Nid Sraers                            No      40  60   100  150   50  50         1   40.0   60.0   100.0   150.0   10.0    00.0        0   0.7
Draft Miaiels                         NO     20   30    40    0   000  250    4    0.0  120.0  i60.   240.0  400.0  1,00.0             0     0
Fns (kerosenel.letric)                M.     30   40   i0   110 10   450    7  210.0  200.0  560.0  770.0 1,330.0  3,150.0             0   0.7
Lnd lwseent                          Ha      2.   15   20   25 M     0   100    8    cO.0  120.0  160.   200.0  240.0   8000           0 0.15
Dher fare Eauirat (carts)             NO      20  30   40   60   000  25   1.5   30.0   45.0   60.0   90.0  150.0   375.0    0  0.6
SldT-otal i1tICLTliL CiEDIT  t                                                        1,040.0 1.525.0 2.040.0 4,150.0 4,770.0 16,M.0
C, T7ECiC>iL ASSISTAM  MS TR2i0192
Overseas Trainirn  lb              Trairwe    2   2      2     -     -     5  50   100.0  100.0   100.0         -       -    300.0  0.1   0.9
Total I00101110T CDSTS                                                                   1,.18.0 1,60-    3,004.0 4,214.0 6,770.0 17,195.0
Total    1Ei1 COSTS                                                                       0,500.0 1.6090. 3-004.0 4,214.0 6,770.0 17,195.0
/al.to? K.
lb  Five for ih n  nd KC.
/c  Irclusive of t aris  dwowir ent ewivalant to 20n of innestent mct.



57
ANNEX 1
SRI LUA                                          Table 13
THIRD MEAL lELEllT  PROJECT
Table 13. NAWW   - ASRICLLTIRN. APTIW  RESEhRCNUID TRAINDIN
btailed Cost Table
(RS. '0001
urmtitv                                Ba   Cots                  Phb.
-U_it---                                     -Ccant. For,.
Unit   1914 185 1986 1917 188 Total Cost 1984    185  1986  1987  188 Total  Rkte Exch.
33=233 3                 33       S      =   _233    _   _32  _23 _3             __
1. IWIES3TT COTS
A. CIVIL UIS
1. Buildings and Facilities
District Training Center /a        No        -    -    -    -    ---          150.0  225.0      -     -      -  375.0  0.15   0.1
Quarters for KS /b                 No        I   -   -   -   -    1 190  190.0           -      -     -      -   190.0  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total Buildirns and Facilities                                               340.0  225.0      -     -      -  565.0
2. Infrastructurt
Land Clearing lb                   a         2   -   -   -   -    2   10   20.0          -      -     -      -   20.0  0.15  0.15
Itrigation Infrastrutue /b          c        1   -   -   -   -    1  15   15.0           -      -     -      -    15.0  0.15  0.1O
Sub-Total Infatructure                                                            35.0      _      _     _      _   35.0
Sub-Total CIVIL MS                                                                  375.0  225.0      -     -      -  600.0
B. EOUIPWE1T AD VEHICLES
1. Eeuinent
3  a Caralb                        No        I   -    -    -    -    1   3    3.0        -      -     -      -    3.0  0.1  0.9
Slide Projector  b                 No        I   -    -    -    -    1   2    2.0        -      -     -      -    2.0  0.1  0.9
Teaching Aids lb                   LS        -    -    -    -    -    -        30.0  40.0  30.0       -      -  100.0  0.1  0.9
2-2h   Tvrwr /b                    No        I   I           -    -    -    2  50   50.0  50,0  -            -100.0  0.1  0.9
PairVrk Own /b                     No        4   4   -    -   -    8   2    8.0   8.0           -     -      -   16.0  0.1  0.9
Office Esuipsent /b                LS        -    -    -    -    -    -        45.0      -      -     -      -   45.0  0.1  0.4
Furniture /b                       LS        -    -     -    -    -    _        10.0  130.0  130.0  40.0     -  310.0  0.1  0.4
Sub-Total Eouipent                                                               148.0  228.0  160.0  40.0      -  576.0
2. Vehicles
4-,Iel Drive Diesel/b              NO        I   -   -   -   -    1 250  250.0           -      -     -      -  250.0  0.1  0.9
Nini-Dus 16-seat lb                No        I   -   -   -   -    1 300  300.0           -             -     -  300.0  0.1  0.9
Dicieles lb                        No        2   2   -   -   -    4 2.5    5.0   5.0            -     -      -   10.0  0.1  0.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                               555.0   5.0       -     -          560.0
Sub-Total EJUIPIENT  ND VEHICLES                                                    703.0  233.0  160.0  40.0      - 1136.0
Total INESTIET COSTS                                                                 1,079.0  458.0  160.0  40.0      - 1,736.0
II. RECIUIT COSTS
Agricultural Instructor lb          staff/war    1   2   2   2   2    9 18.5   18.5  37.0  37.0  37.0  37.0  166.5  0.05    0
VIs /c                              staff/war   2   2   5   6   6   21  10   20.0  20.0  50.0  60.0  60.0  210.0  0.05    0
SNS lb                              staff/war   -  1    2   2   2    7  22             -  22.0 44,0 44.0 44.0   154.0 0.05    0
Laborer lb                          staff/war    2   4   5   6   6   23 6.5   13.0  26.0  32.5  39.0  39,0  149.5  0.05    0
Driver lb                           staff/war   2   2   2   2   2   10   8   16.0  16,0  16.0  16.0  16,0   80.0  0.05    0
Allowancs /c                            LS        -   -   -   -   -    -            15.9  30.0  46.6  50.6  50.6  193.6  0.05    0
Supplies                                LS       -   -   -   -   -    -             30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  150.0 0.05    0
OIN of luildinrs /d                     LS        -    -    -    -    -    -         8.5  14.1  14.1  14.1  14.1   65.0 0.05  0.05
CIA of Euient le                        LS       -    -    -    -    -    -         14.8  37,6  53.6  57.6  57.6  221.2  0.05   0.4
014 of Vehicles /t                      LS                 -               -        55.5  56.0  56.0  56.0  56.0  279.5  0.05  0.5
Total ECIRNT CUTS                                                                      192.2  28B.7  379.0 404.3  404.3 1,669.3
Total ISELIE COSTS                                                                    1,270.2 746.7  539.8 444.3  404.3 3,405.3
/a 15,000 so ft at Rs250/sa ft.
/b  For Training Catr.
/c Calculated at 152 to 302 of basic salary.
Id Calculatad at 2.52 of initial costs.
/e Calculated at 102 o initial costs.
/f Calculated at 102 to 202 of initial costs.



-k  -   -   -   -   -   -    -    --     -                                                                                                           .   .   .      .     .   .j.   .   .5.    .    .
<  ;555|tituiiWWF                                                                                                            i                                    6;                                                                                                                 ;                         3   5;;i51E  I w ;i Ffl 
....                                                                                .    . .    .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .o-So ._ ._ .   ._ _._ .   ._ .v .                                                                                                         
3S11stasttu-X>ts l~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                           .   .   .   .   .   . , .   .   .   .   .   1, .   . , .   .i
-  -oasasaaa  ;  ;     ;;-              ;--;---  --                                                             ' --  -   
2~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FS 1  2
U                                     a                                                                                               -    ~~~         ~~~          ~~~          ~~~         ~~~         ~~~         ~~~         ~~~        ~~~        ~~~        ~~~        ~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



S9
ANNEX 1
N1 LANA                                                        Table 15
THIS U*L  I lENWIT PROMCT
Table 15. NNIIN    - LIYESTC
Detiled Cost Table
llS. '000)
utitu                                         Uae tosts                      .
Cant. For.
Unit   1964 1M5 1966 1917  19  Totl Unit Cost 1964    1965    1916   197   199   Totl  Rate  Exch.
1. I)8ESTET COSTS
A. CIVIL VONS
1. Buildinr an Facilities
Veterina,n Clinics /a                          NO        1   2    1                4       370   370.0  740.0  370.0       -      - 1,480.0  0.15   0.1
Ibusing tor Veei'narV SurOn                    No        1    I    -    -     -    2       220  220.0  220.0        -      -      -  440.0  0.15   0.1
Iusing tor Livntowk Ievt. Tednician            LS        -    1    1               2       130       -   130.0  130.0      -      -   260.0 0.15   0.1
Milk-Chilling Cnrs /b                          N         -        -     -     -    -  -          175.0  200.0       -      -      -  375.0  0.15   0.1
milk-Collsetion Centers /c                     No        4    6   -     -     -    10       32  129.0  192.0        -                 320.0  0.15   0.1
Cattle Market                                  No      0.4  0.6    -        -     -  1     405   162.0  243.0       -      -      -  405.0  0.15   0.1
Su-Total Buildins and Failities                                                                  1055.0 19725.0  500.0       -      - 3M2O0M0
Sh-Tatal CIVIL VOMS                                                                                  1,055.0 1,725.0  500.0      -      -1.280.0
3. E2UIPIEIT AS VEHICLES
1. Vehicles
4-* aeel Drive Diel Is                         No        I    -    -    -    -     1       250   250.0       -      -      -      -  250.0  0.1   0.9
Motorcvcles /d                                 No        2    2    -    -    -     4        32    64.0   64.0       -      -      -   129.0  0.1   0.9
1/2-tn Scooter Truck /c                       NO         -    1    1    1   -    3          40       -    40.0  40.0  40.0        -   120.0   0.1   0.9
Sut-Total Vehicles                                                                                  314.0  104.0  40.0  40.0         -   496.0
2. Eeuipent
Milk Chillinf  Ta* /b                        No        -    I   -    -    -       1    2M0          - 2.000        -      -      - 2M0000   0.1   0.9
Deir lb                                        Na        -        - --             1       700       -  700.0       -      -      -700.0  0.1   0.9
Nillk Cans (45 liters) /c                     Na        40  60    -    -    - 100          0.6   24.0   36.0        -      -      -    60.0   0.1  0.9
NWroster tor Collec. Ccnts-/c                  No        4   6   13    -   -    23         0.1     0.4    0.6    1.3       -      -    2.3  0.1   0.9
Ox Cart                                        No        -    3    2    -   -      5        10       -   30020.0           -      -    50.0   0.1 0.9
S*-Total Esuimnt                                                                                     24.4 2,766.6  21.3       -      - 2.612.3
Sub-Total EOJIPENT MSD  EHIM.ES                                                                        331.4 2,870.6  61.3  40.0        - 3,310.3
Total IlESTEIIT COSTS                                                                                  1P393.4 4,595.6  561.3  40.0       - 61590.3
11. RECOfT COTS
Livestock 0ev. Bad OWt                         - to/war    1    1    1    1   1    5             15   15.0   15.0  15.0   15.0  15.0   75.0  0.05          0
Veterinara   Sugeon                             statt/var    -    1   2    2    2       7        20       -    20.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  140.0  0.05         0
Livstock Det. Technicion                       statt/vear   -    1   2    2   2         7        10       -    10.0  20.0  20.0  20.0   70.0  0.05         0
Driver                                         staff/wer    -    1   2    2    2        7        8        -    9.0  16.0  16.0  16.0   56.0  0.05          0
Laborer                                        statt/war    1    2   2    2   2         9       6.5    6.5   13.0  13.0  13.0  13.0   5S.5  0.05           0
Cattle Yarket Oberat. Cost                          LS        -    -    -    -    -     -               5.0     5.0   5.0    5.0    5.0   25.0  0.05       0
Allowc  I                                          LS         -    -    -    -   -      -               0.7    8.4   15.5  15.5  15.5   55.7  0.05         0
eficiec  Psavent on Purchased Dulls                 Mo       25   50   30   15    -   120       0.5   12.5   25.0  15.0   7.5          -   60.0  0.05      0
M  oat Vehicles /t                                 LS         -    -   -    -   -       -              56.4   68.4  74.0  79.6  79.6  356.0  0.05   0.5
OiM at Buildinis /t                                L          -    -    -    -   -      -              22.3   59.4  71.9  71.9  71.9  297.3 0.05  0.05
Supplies tor Clinic                                LS         -    -    -    -    -    -                  -    15.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  105.0  0.05   0.6
Total RECURENT CWST                                                                                       118.4  247.2  315.4  313.5  306.0 1.300.5
Total DASELIE COSTS                                                                                      1,511.8 4,842.8  876.7  353.5  306.0 7,690.8
/a For Veterinary Sureon.
/b For Milk Sourd.
/c  Fot PA.
/d Two tot the Vets. one tor Lives. Dev. Dard. and one tor IPA.
/e Calculated at 15Z to 302 at basic salary,
/t Calculated at 102 to 20 at initial casts,
/9 Calculated at 2.52 at initial costs.



60
ANNEX 1
SRI LSA                                                       Table 16
TRIM UN UELWEMT PiCT
Table 16. VAIYA - LI lST
Detailed Cost Table
(Re. '0001
Ouantita                                     )as Costs                     h-
_________--C-nt. For.
Unit   1984 198516 1987 198  Total Unit Cost 1984   1M85   1986   1987   1988 Total  Rate  Exch.
1. IUSTIMT COSTS
A. CIVIL MIS
1. Building nd Facilities
Veteritierv Clinics /a                       NO        1   1   -   -   -    2           370   370.0  370.0        -     -      -  740.0  0.15  0.1
Stock Handling Facilities                    No        5   10   5   -   -   20            5   25.0   50.0   25.0        -      -   100.0  0.15   0.1
Housing for Veterinary Surgon                LS        1    1   -   -   -    2          220  220.0  220.0         -     -      -  440.0  0.15   0.1
Housing for Livestock DMvt. Technician       LS        -    I   I   -   -    2          130       -   130.0  130.0      -      -  260.0  0.15  0.1
Milk-Chilling Centers /b                     No        1   -   -   -   -    1           375  375.0        -       -     -      -  375,0  0.15   0.1
Milk-Collection Centers /c                   No        6   4   -   -   -   10            32  192.0  128.0        -      -      -  320.0  0.15   0.1
Cattle Market                                No      0.4  0.6    -   -   -    1         405   162.0  243.0       -      -      -   405.0  0.15  0.1
Sub-Total building an Fcilities                                                                1,344.0 1,141.0  155.0             - 2,640.0
Sub-Total CIVIL U155                                                                              1,344.0 1.141.0  155.0      -      - 2640.0
B. E1IPNENT NO  EIICLES
1. vEhicles
4-Ael Drive Diesl /d                         No        1   1   1   -   -    3           250  250.0  250.0  250.0        -      -   750.0  0.1  0.9
otovcvcles/e                                 Wao       1   2   3    -   -    6           32   32.0   64.0   96.0        -      -  192.0  0.1  0.9
1/2-ton Scootar Truck                        No        I   1   1   -   -    3            40   40.0   40.0   40.0        -      -   120.0  0.1  0.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                               322.0  354.0  386.0       -      - 1,062.0
2. Esuiewnt
Lisuid Nitrosn Containers 3.51 /a             o        I   -   -   -   -    1            12   12.0        -      -      -      -    12.0  0.1  0.9
Liouid llitrosn Containers 31  /             Wa        1   1   -   -   -    2             8    8.0    8.0         -     -           16.0  0.1  0.9
Lieuid Nitrogn Containers l.71/              Wa        -    1   1   -   -    2            4       -    4.0    4.0       -      -    8.0  0.1  0.9
Imported lulls                               No        3   4   -   -   -    7             8   24.0   32.0         -     -      -   56.0  0.1  0.9
Milk-Cilling Center /b                       No        1   -   -   -   -    1    2,000 2,000.0           -       -      -      - 2,000.0  0.1  0.9
kmser /b                                     No        I   -   -   -   -    1           700  700.0        -      -      -      -  700.0  0.1  0.9
O Cart /c                                    lo        5   -   -   -   -    5            10   50.0        -      -      -      -   50.0  0.1  0.9
Milk Cans (45 liters) /c                     No       50  50   -   -   -   100          0.6   30.0   30.0         -     -      -   60.0  0.1  0.9
Hdrometers for Collec, Cent. /c              No        5   8   10   -   -   23          0.1    0.5    0.8    1.0        -      -    2.3  0.1  0.9
Sub-Total Esuipent                                                                             2,824.5   74.8    5.0       -      - 2.904.3
SlTotal E1IPIE4T NI VENILES                                                                      3,146.5  428.8  39.0        -      - 3,966.3
Total IM'ESTiENT CCST$                                                                               4,490.5 19569.8  546.0      -      - 6.606.3
II. ECRRDT COSTS
Livestock Dev. Bord Otf.                      staff/year   1   1   1   1   1    5             15   15.0   15.0   15.0  15.0  15.0   75.0  0.05    0
Vetrinary Surmon                              statf/veer   -    1   2   2   2    7            20       -   20.0   40.0  40.0  40.0  140.0  0-05    0
Livestock Devt. Technician                    staff/vear    -   2   5   5   5    17           12       -   24.0   60.0  60.0  60.0  204.0  0.05    0
Driver                                        staff/weer   -    1   2   2   2    7             8       -    8.0   16.0  16.0  16.0   56.0  0.05    0
Ldorer                                        staff/wear   1   2   2   2   2    9            6.5    6.5   13.0   13.0  13.0  13.0   58.5  0.05    0
Cattle Ibrket Orerat- Cost                        LS        -   -   -   -   -    -                   5.0    5.0    5.0   5.0   5.0   25.0  0.05    0
Allownces /t                                      LS        -       -    -    -    -    -            0.7   11.3   23.7  23.7  23.7   83.0  0.05    0
Wcicwev Payment on Purchrud ulls                  WO       25  50  30  15   -   120          0.5   12.5   25.0   15.0   7.5         -   60.0 0.05    0
OUI of Vehicles /g                                LS        -    -       -   -       -               9.2  121.6  187.2  187.2  187.2  742.4  0.05   0.5
O 1 M of Buildings /h                             LS        -                                       28-9   50.1   53.4  53.4  53.4  239.2  0.05 0.05
Supplies for Clinic                               LS        -    -       -    -    -                   -    15.0   30.0  30.0  30.0  105.0  0.05   0.6
Total IEOLT    COSTS                                                                                   127.8  308.0  453.3  450.8  443.3 1788.1
Total SELIINE COSTS                                                                                   4.618.3 1,s77.8 1,004.3  450.8  443.3 8,394.4
/a For Vetariierv Sur.eon.
lb For Milk Bourd.
/c For VPA.
Id  For Veterinary Sorg.
/e  Four for vet. , one for Livest. Dev. Burd, and one for PA
/f Calculad at 151 to 30T of basic salary,
/g Calculated at 10 to 202 of initial costs.
lb Calculated at 2.5% of initial costs,



61
SRI LANKA                                               ANNEX  1
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     Table  17
Table 17. MANNAR-FISHERIES SERVICES
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Guantitv                                    Base Costs                    Phs.
------------------------------ Unit -------------------------------------------- Cont. For.
Unit    1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 Total Cost  1984    1985    1986   1987   1988  Total   Rate  Exch.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. BUILDINGS
Fishery Service Center /a            No                                    -             -   600.0  400.0       -       - 1,000.0  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                          -   600.0  400.0        -      - 1,000.0
B. EQUIPMENT I VEHICLES
1. EOUIPMENT
Platfore Weight Scale                LS        -    -    -    -      -     -             -        -   25.0      -       -    25.0   0.1   0.9
Dial Spring Balances                 LS         -    -    -    -    -                    -        -    50       -       -     5.0   0.1   0.9
Refrigeration (5 MT)                 No         -    -    I    -    -      1  150        -        -  150.0      -       -   150.0   0.1   0.9
Beacon Lights                        No         3    3    -    -    -      6   10    30.0    30.0        -      -       -    60.0   0.1   0.9
Furniture                            LS        -    -                      -             -        -   10.0      -       -    10.0   0.1   0.4
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                                      30.0    30.0  190.0        -      -   250.0
2. VEHICLES
Pick-Up                              No         1    -               -     1  220   220.0         -      -      -       -   220.0   0.1   0.9
Notorcycles                          No        2    2    -    -    -       4   32    64.0    64.0        -      -       -   128.0   0.1   0.?
18-20 Fishing Boat I Gear            No         1    -    -    -    -      1  500   500.0         -      -      -       -   500,0   0.1   0.9
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                      784.0    64.0       -      -       -   848.0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT I VEHICLES                                                             814.0    94.0  190.0        -      - 1,098.0
C. TECHNICAL ASSIST. A TRAINING
Training                             Trainee      20   20   20   20   20   100    6   120,0   120.0  120.0  120.0  120.0   600.0   0.1          0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                        934.0   814.0  710.0  120.0  120.0 29698.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
Extension Officer                     staff/Year    1    1    1    1    1        510.5    10.5    10.5   10.5   10.5   10.5    52.5  0.05         0
Extension Worker                      staff/year    1    2    3    3    3    12  7.5        7.5    15.0   22.5   22.5   22.5    90.0  0.05        0
Driver                                staffI/ear    I    1    1    1    1       5    8      8.0      8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    40.0  0.05       0
Allowances /b                             LS                                    -           5.9      7.0    8.1    8.1    8.1    37.3  0.05       0
DIM of Vehicles /c                        LS                                    -         128.6   138.2  138.2  138.2  138.2  681.4  0.05   0.5
OIM of Buildings /d                       LS                                    -             -    15.0   25.0   25.0   25.0    90.0  0.05  0.05
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                         160.5   193.7  212.3  212.3  212.3   991.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                         1,094.5 1,007.7  922.3  332.3  332.3 3,689.2
/a 3800 so ft at Rs 270/so ft.
/b Calculated at 15% to 30% of basic salary.
/c Calculated at 10 to 20% of initial costs,
/d Calculated at 2.5% of initial costs,



62
SRI LMA                                                       ANNEX 1
THIRD RI.AL EYELOIENT PROlECT                                            Table 18
Table 18. Oh    -  iMM  ELECTRIFICATION
ktailad Cost Tabie
(RS. '1000
Guantit                                  BDM  Costs                    P1h.
-Unit -    -                                       Cant. For.
Unit 1984 19M  191  1987 1919 Toal Cast 1914  IS    1916    1917    199    Total  Rate  Exch,
==  -=  =-==  _3               2332           3:=2  :3:2 5=: _ 2=3=2- -= S   :3:G- =33  2=2
I. INVESTireT COSTS
Ak CIVIL  MS
Sthi                           lbur1n0 -    -       -     -    -            1I00.0        -       -       -  1,000.0  0.15   0.4
var,alai                        Noa--                                                     -  640.0  640.0  1.29800  0.15   0.4
Tharee                          No    -    -    --   250.0  250.0                                  -       -   50.0  0.15   0.4
EmAkilawidi                     No    -         -     -    -     -                 -       -  693.0  690.0  1.390,0  0.15   0.4
Lahu ROad                       No-                                               -   400.0       -       -    400.0  0.15   0.4
hM   Curch                      No    -    -    -    -         -                     1- ,248.0 17872.0     -  3.120.0  0.15   0.4
uIlaakula                       No    -         -     -     -     --   325.0  325.0                -       -   650.0  0.15   0.4
Thi PpAptheeswaras-Adwarr
Alkaddiveli                  Na    -                                                      l-  -  - 12.0 2,391.0  4W360.0  0.15   0.4
Nir3kawdan                     No     -         -     -    -     -    --          -       - 1.310.0 14310.0  24600  0.15   0.4
Sub-Total CIVIL US                                                            -  ,5750 2,223.0 6,474.0 5,039.0 15.310.0
Total iYNESTNENT COSTS                                                           - 1,575.0 2,223.0 6,474.0 5,038.0 159310.0
232   =23  333= =333           _333333
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                              - 1575.0 22230 6474.0 5,038.0 15,310.0
ANNEX 1
Table 19
SRI- LMA
THIRD RUXL DELOPIENT PIQIECT
Table 19. VllYA - RUM. ELECTRIFICATION
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
0atity                                     BDsM  Costs                    Phw.
---------t--------- ---------u                      ---                     Coat. For.
Unit 1984 195 196 197 199 Total Cost  1914   115    1986    1917    1989   Total  Rate  Exch,
=== =D == __- --  - _= =____ __3_=232 22:3=3=3332 =32=32   333    _=== 3__
I. IMlSThET CSTS
A. CIVIL  ME
aduaa             No    -         -    -     -    -             - 1440.0  960.0         -       -  2,400.0  0.15   0.4
aasde             No     -    -    -        -     -    -      0.0   440.0       -       -       -  1100.0  0.15   0.4
Hedu*erne         No     -       -    -     -     -       2       1,660.0       -       -       -  4,150.0  0.15  0.4
Cheddikula        No     -    -   -    -    -                   - 4440.0 2960.0         -       -  7400.0  0.15   0.4
Ounthi            N      -    -   -    -    -                   -       -      .0  1.380.0      -  2t300.0  0.15   0.4
Noochimadai       No  -            -    -    -        -                 -  660.0  440.0         -  1.100.0  0.15   0.4
Sastrikula        me     -    -   -   -    -                                        920.0 1,390.0  2,300.0  0.15   0.4
Poovarasaul    No        -   -   -    -   -                                     -   840.0  560.0  1,400.0  0.15   0.4
Pawaiuadu         N                          -     -  -  -    -                     520.0   710.0  1,300.0  0.15   0.4
Raieadra,ul       N      -   -   -   -    -                                               -  -  -    320.0   400.0  0.15   0.4
Sub-Total CIVIL MOKS                                         3r150.0 7,980.0 5.500.0 4,180.0 3,040.0 23,950.0
Total IM3EST1ENT COSTS                                          3,150.0 7,910.0 5,500.0 4,180.0 3,040.0 23,950.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             3,150.0 7,910.0 5S500.0 4,180.0 3,040.0 23,850.0



63
WI LAS                                                      ANNEX 1
THIRD UML mmKVWLiT PRET                                                Table 20
Table 20.  MIWR -  MM  18
Detailed Cst Table
(RS. '000)
gutitu                                       Ds  Costs                     "
Unit                                                  Cant. For.
Uhit   194 19M  1916 197  191  Total Cost  1I4    1M5    196    1917    199    Total  Rate   xch.
1. In  CWITS
A. CIVIL 1MS
1. kuildins and Facilities
Ta.r  Housin, Office I Stom               LS        -    -    -    -      -     -        240.0  120.0  120.0  120.0          -    640.0  0.15   0.1
2. Intrastrctlure
AiriCUltuu   Nd Feeder Roads              Ka       15   25  50    50   20   160 92.5 1,237.5 29062.5 49125.0 4,125.0 1i450.0 I3M200,0  0.15  0.15
Fisery Roads                              Km       t0  10  10   10        5    45  97   970.0  870.0  870.0  970.0  435.0  3.915,0  0.15  0.15
Rural R1ed                                Ka       10  20   25   25    20   101  43   430.0  360.0 1,075.0 1,075.0   90o0  4.300.0  0.15  0.15
*-Totl Infratruat4e                                                                       2,537.5 3792.5 6,070.0 6,070.0 29945.0 21,415.0
1*Total CIVIL  MS                                                                            2P7M.5 39912.5 6.I90.0 6,190.0 29945.0 22,015.0
D. EWJTPIW   N  ffHlCLES
I, Esuipeent
2 1/2-ton Timr TruLk                      NO        2    -    -    -      -     2 250   500.0        -       -       -       -    50.0  0-1   0.9
Theodolite                                NO        I    -    -    -      -     1 120   120.0        -       -       -       -    120.0  0.1   0,9
Survy  Poles                              No       22    -    -    -      -    22 0.5    11.0        -       -       -       -     11.0   0.1   0.9
Tar loiler  gal,                          NO        2    -    -     -     -     2   6U   120.0       -       -       -       -    120.0  0.1   0.9
Tractor with Trailer                      No        2    -    -    -      -     2  250   500.0       -       -       -       -    500.0   0.1   0.9
Lellinr  Instriaents and Triod            lo        3    -    -    -      -     3   60   180,0       -       -       -       -    190.0   0.1  0.9
Link COimi                                No        4    -   -      -           4   5    20.0        -       -               -    20.0  0.1   0.9
O3fice Ewip,ent                           LS                                    120.0         -       -       -       -    120,0  0.1   0.4
Tweriters                                 No        3    -    -    -            3   13    39.0       -       -       -       -    39,0   0.1  0-4
Calculatrs                                Ko        5   --          -     -     5   5    250         -       -       -       -     23.0   0.  0.4
*Totl Ewuipent                                                                            1,635.0       -       -       -       -  1oU5.0
2. ehicles
4-4ml Drive Disl                          No        2    -    -    -      -     2 250   500.0        -       -       -       -    50.0  0.1   0.9
S-Tal EIUIPfT A   ln                                                                         2135.0        -       - -                2,135.0
Total IITET W       S                                                                           4,c12.5 3,912,5 64,10.0 6,190.0 2P945.0 24,150.0
Ih. EUCSkN COSTS
Drivers                                    stAff/ar    4    4    4    4        4    20    8    32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   140.0  0.05          0
Clerical Statt                             staff/weer   2    2   2       2     2    10    9    19.0   18.0    18.o   18.0   18.0    90.0  0.0s         0
VorSk Spevisor                             staff/veor  14   14   14   14    14   70  10   140.0  140.0  140.0  140,0  140.0   700.0  0.05              0
Drattumn                                   staff/war    1    1 I         1     1    5   12   12.0    12.0   12.0   12.0    12.0    60.0  0.05          0
eretors                                    stattf/r    1   3    3    3         3    13  12    12.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0    156.0  0.05          0
Allouaeice  /                                  LS        -        -                            32.1   35.7    35.7   35.7   35,7    174t9  0,05        0
OI VehiCles /b                                 LIS0 -                                           .0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    500.0  0,05   0.5
I Agrijt Feeds  I Fishery Roads                Ka        -   25   60  120   180   385  2.5        -   62.5   150.0  300.0  450.0   962.5   05   0.1
DIN Rural Rads                                 Ka        -   10   3    55    90  175  0.5         -     5.0   15.0   27.5    40.0       97,5  0,05  0.05
Total E NT  CSTS                                                                                  3461   441.2  538.7  701.2  863.7  2.D9O0,
Totl DSINE COSTS                                                                                 5,258.6 4v33.7 6,728.7 68991.2 3948.7 27,040.9
/a Calculated at 15 to 30? of basic salary.
/b Calculated at 10 to 202 of initial costs.



64
SRI LANKA                                         ANNeX 1
THIRD RIMA  DMWNWM(  PROJECT                                 Table 21
Table 21. VAIIMIYA - RURML ROAM
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '00)
uanltito                                    bas# Costs                   Phu.
-              --               U nitnit    ----                                     Cant, For.
Unit   1984 195 196  1987  198. Total Cost 1984   1985   1996   1917   1999   Total  Rate Exch.
_2=2= =   33=323=323  =33  =--3 23222   33=32233233  3332  s3323  :    s_3 ==
1. IWNSTIENT COSTS
A. CIUIL VMS
1. Buildinrs nd Facilities
Tea. Housing, Office I Stores        LS        -   -    -    -    -    -            240.0  120.0  120.0  120.0         -   600.0  0.15  0.1
2. IWASTWUCTURE
Asriculture ad Feeder Roads          ro       40  70   90   90   00  350  60 2,400.0 4,200.0 5,400.0 5,400.0 3P600.0 21,0M.0  0.15  0.15
Rural Roads                          Ka       10  20   25   25   20  100  45  450.0  900.0 1,125.0 1,125.0  900.0 4,500.0  0.15  0.15
Sub-Total IWRASTRICTURE                                                              2,950.0 5.100.0 66525.0 6t525.0 4,500.0 25,500.0
Sub-Total CIYIL W     _M 3,090.0 5220.0 6r645*0 6t5640 4,500.0 26,100,0
3. E0UIPEIIT AIND lICLES
1. EOUIPENT
Theodolites                          Ih        2   -    -    -    -    2  120  240.0           -       -       -       -   240.0  0.1  0.9
Lmls nd Tripods                      No        3   -    -    -    -    3  60  180.0            -       -       -       -   190.0  0.1  0.9
Engineering Chain                    Io        3   -    -    -    -    3   3    9.0            -       -       -       -     9.0  0.1  0.9
Survey Poles                         No       25   -    -    -    -   25 0.5   12.5            -       -       -       -    12.5  0.1  0.9
Tar Boiler 125 gal.                  No        2   -    -    -    -    2  60  120.0             -      -       -       -   120.0  0.1  0.9
Htor 6rader                          No        I   -    -    -    -    1 900  900.0            -       -       -       -   900.0  0.1  0.9
Front-and Loader                     No        I   -    -    -    -    1 600  600.0             -      -       -       -   600.0  0.1  0.9
Bulldozer-T4                         NO        I   -    -    -    -    1 600  600.0            -       -       -       -   600.0  0.1  0.9
Tractor with Trailer                 No        2   -    -    -    -    2 250  500.0            -       -       -       -   500.0  0.1  0.9
2 12-ton Tiper Truck               NI         2   -    -    -    -    2 250  500.0            -       -       -       -   500.0  0.1  0.9
Photostat Machine                    No        I   -    -    -    -    I 115  115.0            -       -       -       -   115.0  0.1  0.4
Office Eeuipnt                       LS        -   -    -    -    -    -            150.0      -       -       -       -   150.0  0.1  0.4
Twewriters                           ib        4   -    -    -    -    4  13   52.0            -       -       -       -    52.0  0.1  0.4
Calculators                           io       5   -    -    -    -    5   5   25.0            -       -       -       -    25.0  0.1  0.4
Sub-Total EOUIPIEhT                                                                  4.003,5      -       -       -       - 4.003.5
2. VEHICLES
4-,heel Drive Disel                  No        2   -    -    -    -    2 250  500.0            -       -       -       -   500.0  0.1  0.9
Sub-Total EUJIPENT AND lEHICLES                                                         4,503.5      -       -       -       - 46503.5
Total IIIVESTIOIT COSTS                                                                    7,593.5 5,220.0 6645.0 6t645.0 46500.0 30,603.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
Drivers                               staff/ear    4   4    4    4    4   20   8   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   160.0  0.05    0
Clerical Staff                        staff/year   3   3    3    3    3   15   9   27.0   27.0   27.0   27.0   27.0   135.0  0.05    0
Draftsan                              staff/vear    I   1    1    1    1    5  12   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0    60.0  0.05    0
Oterators                             staff/war    I   7    3    3    3   13  12   12.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   156.0  0.05    0
Allownces /a                              LS        -   -    -    -    -    -             12.5   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1    76.7  0.05    0
OSI of Yehiclas /b                        LS        -   -    -    -    -    -            100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   500.0  0.05  0.5
MO  of Agric. and Feeds Roads             Ka        -  40  110  200  290  640 2.5            -  100.0  275.0  500.0  725.0  16N0.0  0.05   0.1
OIN of Rural Roads                        Ks        -   10   30   55   80  175 0.5           -    5.0   15.0   27.5   40.0    87.5  0.05  0.05
Total ECURRENT COSTS                                                                         195.5  329.1  513.0  750.6  988.1  2775.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                        7,789.0 5,548.1 7,158.1 7395.6 5,488.1 33,379.7
/a  Calculated at 15Y to 302 of basic salary.
/b Calculated at IO to 207 of initia. costs.



21 j>                       5   a0 - S 0 1 k 0 Y                                           2   's             - n                                                                       o' en'       -                        = g 9riaja
o:    _.in                                                        Dg                                           I ^                                                                 
0                     m-r                                                                                                    -                                            I
CAS.ICAAC4I                   ....  s  .                                                           S                               '~         ~                      a                              .               -  -    s _  r ____w__ i3 i
I0   I                                I2                                          * I         I'                                -               _             W                                enOSWen.-   IIW_     IIW_~ i  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                            I     ~            I     '%            I                        A              J   Sw   w_   ws     w- IL    IB ac' 
,,   .,,   .  sw  -  u9ssa                           s                             w,,,                     w,,,,   w            ,                            ,,,,,., tw              ;                         li -   je. 
o >Z< w4 ~-                               a                                                                                    w        .u I!z te  01  0i
a-                     a           ____t                                                                                       So   S    S.w.aSo  a  ialc ;c3S   _on  I 
|~~~~~~ -40                                                                      l                           >aaa__~o$  ii9 | en        oooooOooioj       t1_
!,S  il j  !fl fl*    SF  w9    uab>     ~ ,s      ss      -I                                      ]a                 XP                     ;s         owsi3 v            oosoiiflz                                             z 
!!-8        -. KtW!'                                                                                                                                                                                        _             ,_,
22n2j  .                       ii uw.   I0                      a       90  g          ' .   ,2su  Ia!a       S                                                Ososo   00j                                                  so~~5j 
:: ~      ~                         FFFF.PFFF                                                                                                                                                                 ooo             o     o       
at,~~~ an                                                                                                           a                                                                                                                                   I i         FFFF    .....     .... !
F ~ ~        ~          ~         ~        ~        - _                                                      -noooooooooFFFFFwFFoFFFFFFF.            F.....j  m9



o~~~ n   ~ o                         oo0-n , ,p o                                                                                                                                                                                             loo
11I                      A. if00                                                                                                              04                                       4 - O        o 00            1.C.I
G-4--                                     4-Oja                                  m             2  X    n4  -I       ~-       X                 0                                     oIO-                                                   '1-10 4|mff~|-
S<|o"i        .|-  4  ,--I  0140                            44      4-f   I                                    'CO        g0            g        f                                         104        0-                                                 ooc nng|w@i
^-                               o44                                  ' L        I   |   40       -i |                                                _                                                           I         S
-.4-,'     -~~-                                                               --       --                                     --       -     --  
51~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. t                                                                                                                                 !-tgZ
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -40404 -   -'a
4-044-04'                                               4- ~s -:l &-Zi                                                                    4-    40-440-04-- v                       I-'         -:                           - r
Z ,s. Z,             9 Z.  w6                                                            . . Z:,                              w                                      __   .w_,
II Ir   w_          X w F.                                                             wI                    wI I I               I II _ I                                             _ E1 I  
21HI ~ ~ ~ ~         ~             ~             ~             ~            ~             ~            ~            ~           ~           ~ ~ ~ ic 1w 
44  4  040  4--~~~----                                                                                                         --        --
40.  4                                                  4l                1                   o                     N   W N0  N  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  --  -  -  -  -  -  - 0-
m  <~_   N  WoS   o  NO   WD 8Oo   i  C!S  
I:   40 11404.0400 w                                                                             044'   o'                    o 1    :o|O              I  O  ,4O  O  O1  -O  I      I  I  O04-- I O  4,JOO     4-' OO - 
.._t      ;OOOoOoo1 :otOWtWI  401.04044.0                            0          O                 .OI  I I              4444,    O  104    IO                                 I O 404I   I  I O 44- O'l1 
1 ~     ~       4* e44040444 01  1    _4 11 _01 _1                                                                                                                                         1    10     4 iiO0I      im imIj _
r~~ ~                                                                   (* .S04J4 O|t3I8                                                                                                                                             0404 X                -         1a.o                           ,o      
ii - . !!         404-                                         i LI jo    I r                              ~ ! r~ !           i                                           m                                                                   -:   ~i  
'I. I                                                           II.. g                            I -:m48   >g   }   ' s     i ->*                                                                        .4 -                             IIGSO<   !o!Noosgs  !c  
11044,4'~~ O04         0    00      0    0  0o* o4 1 G*4444    I                                                     0      0     0     0    0 ,O  ,o,0                                00         '0 4 _0        Fl   
o~'       -                               -        O        '               o                            o                                        o                                                     oU-       ooOoooooi! .1
; s w 9 o o o o o o o o o111011                                                                                             0104    10001    100.



67
ANNVEX 1
SRI LAMKA                                                       Table  24
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Table 24. MNR    - EDUCATION
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Duantits                                     Base Costs                     Ph1.
----------------------------- Unit ------------------------------------------------ Cont. For.
Unit    1    1985 1986 1587 1988 Total Cost  1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    Total  Rate  Exch.
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Quildir,ss and Facilities
Science Rooms for Junior Sec. Schools                      NO         5    5    6    5    5    26   80   400.0  400.0  480.0   400.0  400.0  2,080.0  0.15   0.1
Double Unit Science Labs. for Senior Sec. Schools           No        -    I    1    -    -      2  325       -   325.0  325.0         -       -    650.0  0.15   0.1
Single Unit Science Labs. for Junior Sec. Schools          No         I    I    i    1    -      4  200   200.0  200.0   200.0  200.0          -    800.0  0.15   0.1
Additional Classroos 20 ft x 20 ft                         No        5    5   10  10   10    40   50   250.0  250-0   50.8   100.0   500.0  2000.0  0.15   0-1.
Library Rooms 20 ft x 20 ft                                No         2    2    2    2    1      9   50   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   50.0   450.0  0.15   0.1
Wells                                                      No         5    5    5    5    3    23   15    75.0   75.0    75.0   75.0   45.0   345.0  0.15   0.1
Urinals                                                    No         7    7    6    4    -    24    7    49.0   49.0   42.0   28.0            -    168.0  0.15   0.1
Lavatories                                                  No        3    2    3    5    -    13    6    10.0    12.0   18.0    30.0          -     78.0  0.05   0.1
3-roon Qluarters                                            No        1    1    1   -    -       3  150   150.0  150.0  150.0          -       -    450.0  0.15   0.1
6-roos Quarters                                            No         -    -    1    1    -      2  234       -       -   234.0   234.0        -    468.0  O.15   0.1
Teachers Quarters                                          No         3    3    3    3    -    12   90   270.0  270.0   270.0   270.0          -  1,080.0  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total Buildings and Facilities                                                                         1,512.0 0,831.0 2,394.0 1,837.0   995.0  8.569.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                         1,512.0 1,B31.0 2,394.0 1.837.0  995.0  8.569.0
B. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
1. Euipmet
Prisary School Eauipeent Kits                              No        24   40   11    -    -    75    6   144.0  240.0    66.0          -       -    450.0   0.1   0.9
Science Eouir. for Jtmior Sec. Schools                     No         6    6    7    6    5    30   32   192.0   192.0  224.0   192.0   160.0    960.0   0.1   0.9
Science EGuip. for Senior Sec. Schools                      No        -    I    I    -    -      2  130       -   130.0   130.0        -       -    260.0   0.1   0.9
Furniture /a                                                No        5    5   10   10   10    40   25   125.0   125.0  250.0   250.0  250.0  1,000.0   0.1   0.4
Librar4 Books /b                                            No        2    2    2    2    2    10   50   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   500.0   0.1   0.4
Sub-Total Eauizpent                                                                                          561.0  787.0   770.0  542.0  510.0  3,170.0
2. Vehicles
Motorc4cle                                                  No        5    -    -    -    -      5   32   160.0       -        -       -       -    160.0   0.1   0.9
4-Wheel Drive Diesel                                        No        I    -    -    -    -      1 250   250.0         -       -       -       -    250.0   0.1   0.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                                           410.0        -                            410.0
Sub-Total EDUIPNENT AND VEHICLES                                                                                971.0  787.0  770.0   542.0   510.0  3,580.0
Total IVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                            2,483.0 2,618.0 3.164.0 2v379.0 1,505.0 12,149.0
11, RECUMENT COSTS
School Works Engineer                                        staff/sear    I    1    1    1    1      5   25    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    125.0  0.05       0
School Works Overseer                                        staff/sear    I    I    I    I    1      514.5   14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5         72.5  0.05     0
Driver                                                       staff/sear    1    1    1    1    1      5    8     8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0     8.0     40.0  0.05      0
Allouances /c                                                    LS        -    -    -    -    -      -          9.1     9.1      91      9.1     9.1      45.5  0.05     0
Overtime for Clerks                                              LS        5    5    5    5    5    25    4    20.0    20.0    20.0   20.0    20.0    100.0  0.05         0
DIN of Vehicles /d                                               LS        -    -    -    -    -      -         53.5   53.5    53.5    53.5   53.5    267.5  0.05   0.5
OIN of Eauipment /e                                              LS                  -                -         28.1    67.4   105.9  133.0  158.5   492.9  0.05          0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                              158.2   197.5   236.0   263.1   208.6  1,143.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                              2,641.2 2,815.5 3i400.0 2.642.11,793.6 13,292.4
/a Rs 25000 Per classrooa.
/b Rs 509000 Per librars.
/c Calculated at 152 to 30% of basic salary.
/d Calculated at 10% to 202 of initial costs.
/e Calculated at 10 of initial costs.



68
ANNEX 1
SRI LANKA                                                      Table 25
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 25. VAVUNITA - EDiJCATION
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Ouantitsa                                  Base Costs                    Pha.
------------------------------ Unit ----------------------------------------------- Cont. For.
Unit   1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 Total Cost 1984    1985   1986   1987    1988    Total  Rate Exch.
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Buildings and Facilities
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
Science Rooms for Junior Sec. Schools                    No        4   5   4   4    4   21  80  320.0  400.0  320.0  320.0  320.0  1,680.0  0.15   0.1
Double Unit Science Labs. for Senior Sec. Schools        No        I   -    -    -   -       1 325   325.0        -       -       -       -   325.0  O.15.  0.1
Single Unit Science Labs. for Junior Sec. Schools        No        I   1   -   -    -    2 200   200.0  200.0             -       -       -    400.0  0.15   0.1
Additional Classrooms 20 ft x 20 ft                      No        5   5   10  10  10   40  50  250.0  250.0  500.0  500.0  500.0  2,000.0  0.15   0.1
Librars Rooms 20 ft x 20 ft                              No        2   2    2   2   2    10  50   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   500.0  0.15   0.1
Wells                                                    No        6   6    6   5    5    28  15   90.0   90.0   90.0   75.0   75.0   420.0  0.15   0.1
Urinals                                                  No        5   5    4   4   2   20   7   35.0   35.0   20.0   28.0   14.0   I40.0  0.15   0.1
Lavatories                                               No        2    2   2   2    2    10   6    12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0    60.0  0.15   0.1
3-room Quarters                                          No        I   I   -    -    -    2  150   150.0  150.0           -       -       -    300.0  0.15   0.1
6-rooo Quarters                                          No        I   1   -   -    -    2 234   234.0  234.0             -       -       -   468.0  0.15   0.1
Teachers Quarters                                        No        3    3   3    3    -    12  90  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0             -  1,080.0  0.15   0.1
Construction of Workshops I Basic Aenities               LS        -   -    -    -   -       -            - 2700.0 1,800.0        -       - 4i500.0  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total Buildings and Facilities                                                                     1986.0 4,441.0 30120.0 1,305.0 1,021.0 11,873.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                     1f986.0 4i441.D 3v120.0 1,305.0 1,021.0 11,873.0
B. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
1. Enuipment
Primars School Eauipment Kits                            No       25  40  13    -    -    70   6   150.0  240.0   78.0            -      -    460.0  0.1  0.9
Science Eauip. for Junior Sec. Schools                   No       10  10  10  10   3    43  32  320.0  320.0  320,0  320.0   96.0  1,376.0  0.1  0.9
Science Eauip. for Senior Sec. Schools                   No        1   -    I    I   -    3  130   130.0          -   130.0  130.0        -   390.0  0,1  0.9
Furniture /a                                             No        5   5   10  10  10   40  25   125.0  125.0  250.0  250.0  250.0  1,000.0  0.1  0.2
Library Books lb                                         No        2   2    2   2   2    10  50   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   500.0  0.1  0.1
Esuip. for Vocational Trng. Workshops                    LS             -    -   -   -       -            - 2000.0 3000.0 2,650.0        - 71650.0  0.1   0.9
Sub-Total Eauipment                                                                                      825.0 27085.0 3,878.0 3,450.0  446.0 11,384.0
2. Vehicles
Iiotorcscle                                              No        3   2    -   -    -    5  32   96.0   64.0             -       -       -    160.0  0.1  0.9
4-wheel Drive Diesel                                     No        1   -    -   -   -        1 250   250.0        -       -       -       -   250.0  0.1  0.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                                       346.0   64.0        -       -       -   410.0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                                                                          1F171.0 2,849.0 3,878.0 3i45O.0  446.0 11,794.0
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                                                                                       3,157.0 7.290.0 6,998.0 4.755.0 1,467.0 23,667.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
Schools Works Engineer                                    staff/sear    I   I   1    1   1    5  25   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   125.0  0.05               0
School Works Overseer                                     staff/sear    1   1   1   1    1    5 14.5   14.5   14.5   14.5   14.5   14.5    72,5  0.05              0
Driver                                                    staff/sear    I   I   I    I   1    5   8    8.0           8.0    8.0     8.0     B.0    40.0  0.05      0
Overtime for Clerks                                           No        1   1   1   1    1    5   4    4.0    4.0    4.0    4,0              4.0    20.0  0.05     0
Allowances /c                                                 LS        -   -    -   -    -    -             9.1     9.1    9.1    9.1       9.1    45.5  0.05     0
Supplies for Vocational Tmng. Work.                           LS        -   -   -   -    -    -                -   200.0  400.0  400.0  400.0  1,400.0  0.05       0
0Sh of Vehicles /d                                            LS        -    -   -   -    -    - -7.1   53.5   53.5   53.5   53.5   261.1  0.05   0.5
GDI of Buildings /e                                           LS        -    -   -   -   -        -         49.7  160.7  238.7  271.3  296.8  1,017.1  0.05  0.05
OSI of Eauipment                                              LS        -   -    -   -   -        -         41.3  180.5  374.4  546.9  569.2  1,712.3  0.05   0.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                          198.6  655.3 1.127.2 1.332.3 1.380.1  4.693.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                          3,355.6 7,945.3 8.125.2 6,087.3 2,847.1 28,360.5
/a Rs 25000 Per classroom.
/b  Rs 509000 Per library.
Zc Calculated at 15% to 30% of basic salary.
/d Calculated at 10% to 20Z of initial costs.
le Calculated at 2.51 of initial costs.



69
SR1 LMWA
THTN MEd.L 0Ya     9    AM                                    Table  26
Tale 26,. W         - Md     41TE0  N1MI
beta.l1o Cast Table
,1R. '000)
omii_ni                               bsr costs                 Ft.
-         Lnit ---------------------      ----t-  Cnt. For.
it ni   944 0IM0  t981iS7 t9SI  Total Ctst  1984  I9R5  IS84   197  IS6  Ttibl  Rae  Ezch.
1. Ii11ET1E4  COSTS
t. CIVIL i S
1. WrtnrstmAc rt
R4ral Wells                        10      10  I0  20  10   -    0   40  400.0  400,0  800.0  400.0   - 2,000.0  O.15  0.15
Sub-Tot.l CIVIL VW                                                                 400.0  400.0  800.0 400.0   - 2,000.0
O. iDTiilT u  IEiTtLES
1. Eoio t
ianal lindcl                      ft        I   _     -   -           1  11   110       -      - I  i           11.0  0.1  0,9
Cattitu4l Pw 2-inth                No       I   -   -   -   -         I  11  11.0       -      -      -   -   11.0  0.1  0.9
HnoW Pin                           No      10  20  20      --    50   5         .0  100.0  1000       -   -2.0  0.1   0.9
SubT- l Emint                                                                     72.0  100.1  10,0o     -   -  272.0
S0.6T-t1l E114199IETW Ai  NiOC                                                      72.0  100.0  100.0      -   -  272.0
Iotol li1T011ET4 tlS5                                                                 472.0  500.  S00.0  400.0    - 2,272.0
II. REtUIS   C0STS
Surint.n4dnt Ctrwctim              sWth1wr   I   I   I   I   1    5   10  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0 10.0   50.  0.05    0
Cl.IWT.it                           sto/tmer    I   I   I    1   1    5   9 9.0    .0   9.0   9.0  9.0   45.0 0.05                 0
Labors, rtattle.a,    I    I   1   1   1    5  .5 6                                  .5    6.5   0       6.5  6.5   32.5 0,05    0
Alt         /oa,-,- -a LS                                                 - -3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8  318   I9.  0.05    0
000 of  ils h                          LS        -       -    -    -   -    -      10.0  20.0  40.0  X0.0 50.0  170.a  0.05 0.05
Trt l 0Et11        tOSTS                                                               39.3  49,.  69.3  79.3 79.3  316.6
Totel i0SENLE 510                                                                     511.1  549.1  969.1  479.3 79,3 2.0ii6,
h. Calculate at IS to 301 00 bosic sal-,,
/b  TCullatW  at. 2.51 of WUBti.1 cots.
SRI LMW TU                                              r  27
TIHlS RJLLiNfGII Dmw    aEcT
Table 27. 0MMIYT41  - WAL 40ATER VLY
Dtailed test Tjol.
(RS. '040)
i eitY                                 Do  costs                Fh.,
-----         ---  lhit ------ ------------- Cmt For.
unit   I94 198  19  87 1900 Totel Cost  1904  195   1906  8197  190Itotl   Rate  Ech.
1. II009W141 COST
A. CIVIL  5K
1. IrftrnCrurtn
Rur4l ol0ls                        14      10  10  20  10   -   50  40  400.0  400.0  80.0  400.0    - 2,000.0  0.15  0.15
-1.6EitCalI VIL                                                                    400.0  400.0 000.0  400.0    - 2,000.0
0. 0SI0991    W0 0001010S
1. i r
i11VOrdn                           ib         1 ----                  I111  11.0        -      -      _   -    11.0  0.1   0.9
mtlhftwl PM   2-ieh               lb       I   -   -   -   -    I  11   11.0           -      -           -    10.0  0.1  0-9
Hi60Pu.ws                         1        10 20  20        --        050.0  100.0  100.0             -   -250.0  0.1  0.9
S0,T-t0l E     ut                                                                72.0  100.0  100.1      -   -  272.0
WI-"0.   E T8  An ItttTtEti                                                         72.t-100.0  100,0       -   -  222.0
T1.'t lillEhT  tlSlt                                                                  472.0  10.0  9400  400.0       2.272.0
II~~~. ,M   m
.0 _vn    7
STw.Ort d6 Corstact,io              staff/Mr    I   I   I   I   I    1   10  U0.0   10.0  10.0  10.0 10.0   10.0  0.05             0
Cbr./Twhst                          0tl/w a           I I   I        1    5   9   9.0   9.0.0 0    9.0  9.0   45.0  0.05    0
Labs,,                             staff/lar   1   1            1   1    510.5   6.5   *.5   0.1    0.5   .2   32.5  0.05    V
Atli s Is                           sttf/,1 -             -    -    -    -    -     3.0   1.0    3.    3.8  3.8   19.1  0.05    0
a0    a  l0ls h1                                 -        -     -    -    - b      10.0  20.0  40.0  50.0 50.0  170.0  0.05 0.05
TrA IE01r t6D     10                                                                   19.3  49.3  69.1  7.3 79.3  311.6
T1tal  AELIE   CXYt                                                                    511.3 54.3  9S.1  t794 279.3 2,30.6,
to Catc..0d at 15! to 305 00 _tc selary.
lb  Colcvtded at 2.52 or initial cotr.



70
SRI LMA                                              ANNEX 1
THIRD RURAL IEYELWIT PRCT                                      Table 28
Table 28. Iil   - IWAIGAT  M  CUOlDIATION
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Quantit%                                   Base Costs                   PFM.
----------       ---------    nit ----------------- --------- --- --------Csnt. For.
ulit    1984 198  1986 1997 1988 Total Cost 1984   1985   1986   1987   1988    Total  RotA  Exch.
I. INESTlNT Ct5TS
A. CIYIL VORMiS
1. Suildin5s and Facilities
Project Office                       No         I1- - - -                 18808M,             -       - ---              -   SS0. .05   0.1
Staff Quarters Sr V                  No         I   -    -   -    -    1 425  425,0           -       -       -       -    425.0  O.S   0.1
Staff harters 6r IY                  No         2   -   -    -   -    2 315  UO.,             -       -       -       -    630.0  D,15   0.1
Staff Ouarters 6r ll                 No              -   -   -    -    1  190  190,0             -                    -    190.0  0.18   0.1
Sub-Total Buildinss aod Facilities                                                 2,095.0
Sub-Total CIYIL VMS                                                                   24095,0                       -       - 2,095.0
B. EQIPtET AMD vBITCLES
1. Eruipnent
Dklicatirsw  achine                  Mo         I          -    -         1  35   35.0        -       -       -       -     35.0  0.1   0.4
Photocopier                          No         I   -   -   -   -    I  115   11.0                            -       -    1150.  0.1   0.4
Tai.ariter                           Mo         3    -        -   -    -    3   13   39.0     -       -       -       -    39.0  0.1   0.4
Fumniture                            LS         -    -    -    -    -    -         500        -       -       -       -       . 0.1   0.4
Oisclleos Euipet                     LS         -    -    -    -    -    -         20.0   20.0   20.0         -       -    60.0  0.1   0.4
Sub-Total Ecu ipeent                                                                 259.0   20.0   20.0             -        2S9. 0
2. Vehicles
4-iael Drive Diesel                  No         2   -    I   -   _    3  250  50.0           -   250.0       -       -    750.0  0.1   0.9
Nini-bus                             No         i   -   -   -   -         1 250   250.0       -       -       -       -   250.0  0.1   0.9
Passeger Car/a                       No         3   -    -   -   -    3  180  540,0           -       -       -       -   540.0  0.1  O.9
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                  1,290.0      -  250.0        -       -  1,540.0
Sub-Total EOUIPltNT AMD YEHICLES                                                      1,549.0   20.0  270,0         -       -  1,039.0
C. TECIIICML ASSISTMCE AN  TRAININ6
Contract Staff /b                  staff/wonths  36  36  36  36  36  180 5.5  198,0  198.0  198.0  198.0  198.0   990.0  0.1                  0
Evaluation                              LS         -   -   -   -   -    -            100.0  100.0  200.0  300.0  300.0  1,000.0  0.1          0
Training                             Trairee      10  10  10  10  10  5S  10   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   500.0  0.1                 0
Contract Staff /c                  staf/mths   36  36  36  36  36  ISO  8.S  198.0  195.0  198.0  198,0  193.0   990.0  0.1                   0
Sub-Total TECINbICAL ASSISTMC  IND TRAINING                                             596.0  S96.0  696.0  796.0  796.0  3,488.0
Total liNVESTMEIT COSTS                                                                  4,240.0  616.0  966.0  796.0  796.0  7,414.0
11. RECRET  COSTS
Project Director                      staff/war      I   I   I   I   1    5  37    37.0   37.0   37.0   37.0   37.0   185,0  0.88               0
Project Deput Director                staff/wcar     2   2   2   2   2   10  32    64.0   64.0   64.0   64.0   64.0   320.0  0.88               0
Assistant Director /d                 staff/war    2   2    2   2   2    10  26    52.0   52.0   52.0   52.0   52.0   200.0  0.OS    0
Plaming Officer                       staff/wear     2   2   2   2   2   10  18   36.0   36.0   36.0   20.0   36.0   180.0  0.08                0
Deelopment Officer                    staff/war      4   4   4   4   4   20   12   48.0   48.0   40.0   48.0   48.0   240.0  0.08               0
Clitis/Stenogro-her                   stff/sear      6   6   6   6   6   30   9    54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   270.0  0.05               0
A      tcour,tat                      staff/war      I   I   1    1   1    5   30    30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   150.0  0.05             0
Assistant Acowtint                    staff/wer      I   1   1   1    1    5   12    12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0    60.0  0.88             0
Laborers                              staff/wear    6   6    6   6   6   30  6.5   39.0   39.0   39.0   39.0   39.0   195.0  0.88               0
Drivers                               staff/Sear    5   5   5   5   5   25   8    40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   200.0  0.OS    0
Office Exaenses                           LS         -   -    -   -   -    -            25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   125.0  0.05  0.2
Allowaces 2e                              LS         -   -    -   -   -    -           101.8  101.8  101.8  101.0  101.8   500.8 0.88           0
001 of Euipeant /t                        LS         -   -   -   -   -    -             259    27.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   143.5 0.OS  0.4
0010 of Vehicls /0                        LS         -   -   -    -   -    -           232,2  232.2  277.2  277.2  277.2  1,296.0  .05   0.5
DUi of buildirds lh                       LS         -   -    -   -   -    -            52.4   52.4   52.4   52.4   52.4   261.9  0.88  0.08
Total RECCET COSTS                                                                         849.2  851.2  898.2  898.2  890.2  49395.1
Total DASELIPE COSTS                                                                      5,089.2 li467.2 1,864.2 1,694.2 1,694.2 11,809.1
/a Om for ROD
/b he enginer, one agriculturalist end oe livestok specilist for the Pro0,ct office.
le On   ccouant, one assistant accoutat  d oe secretare for RDD.
fd en for 011
/a Calculated at 15S to 302 of basic salary.
If  Calculed at 102 of initicl costs.
la Calculated at 100 to 20M of initial costs,
/h Calculstad at 2.57 of initial costs.



71
sa1 LAWA                                               AM=  1
THIRD mim  IIEIPEINT P7iCT                                       'Table 29
Table 29. WMMIIYA - IANEIT  Mkl CODSATIWQ
Detailed U ost Tabla
(RS. '0001
guatit                                     Bam  Costs                   PhY.
-------    --Unit ------   -------------------------             -Coat, For.
unit    1994 I195 1996 1997 19S9 Total Cost 1984   1985   1986   1997   1988   Total  Rate Exch.
1. D!JETIIEIIT C65TS
A. CIYIL  RKS
1. Iuildirss nd Facilities
Project Office                       No        I   -   -   -   -    1 O50  850,0             -       -               -   850.0  0.05   0.1
Staff Ourters Gr V                   No         I   -   -    -   -    1 425  425.0            -      -       -       -    425.0  0.15   0.1
Staff Osarters Or IDo                          2   -   -   -   -    2 315   630.0            -       -       -       -   630.0  0.15   0.1
Staff Ouarters Gr III                No         I   -   -   -   -        1 190  190.0         -      -       -       -   190.0  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total Buildinos ad Facilities                                                  2,095.0      -       -       -       - 2M095,0
Sub-Total CIVIL WOS                                                                   2.095.0      -       -       -       - 2 .0
Q. EOUIPHIII ANO W9ICLES
1. Eoauiient
DClicatina Dachire                   Do         I   -   -          -    1  35   35.0         -       -                     35.0  0.1  0.4
Photocopier                          No         I   -   -   -   -    1 115  115.0            -       -       -       -    115,0  0.1  0.4
Tweriter                             Do         3   -   -   -   -    3   13   39.0            -      -       -       -    39.0  0.1  0.4
Furniture                            LS        -            -0 -               -      -     -                              50.0  0.1  0.4
Niscell11ous Eaunpient               LS         -    -    -    -    -              25.0   25.0   25.0        -       -    75.0  0.1  0.4
Sub-Total Eauirwnt                                                                   264.0   25.0   25.0        -       -   314.0
2. Vehicles
4-Ae1l irive Diesel                  Do        2   -    1   -   -    3 250   500.0           -   250,0       -       -   750.0  0.1  0.7
Nini-Bus                             DO         I   -   -   -   -    1 250   250.0            -      -       -       -   250.0  0.1  0.9
Passeir Car /a                       Do        2   -   -   -    -    2  180  360.0           -       -       -       -    360.0  0.1  0.9
Sub-Total Uehicles                                                                 1.110.0       -  250.0       -       - 1t360.0
Sub-Total EIPIUIT AiD VEHICLES                                                        19374.0   25.0  275.0        -       - 1.674.0
C. TECDIICAL ASSISTMfC  MD TRAININS
Contract Staff /b                  staff/onths   36  36  36  36  36  100 5.5  198.0  198.0  198.0  198.0  198.0   990.0  0.1    0
Evaluation                             LS         -   -    -   -   -    -            100.0  100.0  200.0  300.0  300.0  I,000.0   0.1        0
Trainirn                             Trisiee     10  10  10  10  10   50  10  100.0  IO.O  100.0  100.0  100.0   500.0   0.1    0
Sub-Total TECNICAL ASSISThMCE MW TRAINI4                                               390.0  399.0  499.0  599.0  598.0  2,490.0
Total IBJEST I T COSTS                                                                   3486740  423.0  773.0   599.0  599.0 6,259.0
11. RER1ET COSTS
Project Direetor                      staff/sear    I   I    I   1   1    5   37    37.0   37.0   37.0   37.0   37.0   185.0  0.05    0
Project Dewuts Director               staff/sear    2   2   2   2   2   10  32    64.0   64.0   64.0   64.0   64.0   320.0  0.05               0
Assistant Direc tor /c                staff/wear    2   2   2    2   2    10  26    52.0   52.0   52.0   52.0   52.0   260.0  0.05    0
Planninr Officer                      staff/sear    2   2   2    2   2    10  18   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   180.0  0.O5    0
Develorsent Officer                   staff/seat    4   4    4   4   4   20  12   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   240.0  0.05               0
Clerks/Stenoraph4er                   staff/year    6   6   6   6   6   30   9   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   270.0  0.05                0
Acountant                             staff/sar     I   I   1    1   1    5   30   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   150.0  0.05    0
Assistant kccountant                  staff/sear    I   I   I   I    1    5   12    12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0    60.0  0.05    0
Laborers                              staff/sear    6   6   6   6   6   30  6.5   39.0   39.0   39.0   39.0   39.0   195.0  0.05    0
Drisers                               staff/sear    5   5   5    5   5   25   6    400    48.0   40.0   40,0    40.0   200.0  0.05             0
Office Expenses                          LS         -   -   -   -   -    -              25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   125.0  0.05   0.2
Alloaces /d                              LS         -   -   -   -   -    -              91.4   91.4   91.4   91.4   91.4   456.8  0.05    0
OY of Eauirent /e                                  -   -    -   -   -    -             26.4   28.9   31.4   31.4   31.4   149.5  0.05  0.4
0011 of Vehicles /t                                 -   -   -   -    -    -            199    199.8  244.8  244.8  244.8  1,134.0  0.05   0.5
00Y of Buildinas /I                                -   -   -   -   -    -              52.4   52.4   52.4   52.4   52.4   261.9  0.05 0.05
Total EC1RRON7 COSTS                                                                       806.9  809.4  856.9    56.9  856.9  4,187.1
====  z==:=== ==-   r== ==e-===
Total 3SELIDE CSTS                                                                        4t673.9 1,232.4 1629.9 1,454.9 1,454,9 10o446.1
la Twa for RW\.
/b  One wdaineerp one agriculturalist and one livestock specialist for the Proect office.
/C  one for M.
/d Calculaed at 15? to 30k of basic salary.
/e  Calculated at 10% of initial costs.
/f Calculated at 10 to 20? of initial costs.
/1 Calculated at 2.52 of initial costs.



72
ANNEX 1
Table 30
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
(US$ M)
Semi-Annual            Cumulative
FY 84-85
2nd Semester                      0.5                     0.5
FY 85-85
1st Semester                      1.5                     2.0
2nd Semester                      2.0                     4.0
FY 85-86
1st Semester                      2.5                     6.5
2nd Semester                      2.5                     9.0
FY 86-87
1st Semester                      2.5                    11.5
2nd Semester                      2.5                    14.0
FY 87-88
1st Semester                      2.5                    16.5
2nd Semester                      2.5                    19.0
FY 88-89
1st Semester                      2.0                    21.0
2nd Semester                      1.5                    22.5
FY 89-90
1st Semester                      0.5                    23.0



73                    ANNEX 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for Planning and Design of Rehabilitation
Works on Major and Minor Irrigation Schemes
1.      Because of the large number of irrigation schemes (five major and 60 minor
schemes in Mannar and about 14 major schemes in Vavuniya) as well as the wide
dispersion of the schemes to be rehabilitated, it is necessary to have agreed
guidelines for selection, preparation of plans and designs, construction and
operation and maintenance (O&M) to be carried out by the Irrigation Department
(ID) and Department of Agrarian Services (DAS).
A. Major Irrigation Schemes
(i) Rehabilitation and modernization works of major tanks and anicuts should
be carried out by ID in accordance with ID specifications. Major schemes
to be financed under the project should be those identified in the Staff
Appraisal Report, any variation to he made only with IDA concurrence.
(ii) Economic rates of return on proposed investments for each scheme should be
at least 15%.
(iii) For the five rehabilitation schemes yet to be identified in Vavuniya,
which have breached and where the tank bunds and the command areas are
covered with forest, it will be essential to study the flood hydrology,
adequate spillway capacity and free board to the tank bund. Full survey
of the command area and the layout of the main canals and distributaries
have to be carried out. Plans and designs including cost estimates and
economic analysis of two schemes would be submitted to IDA prior to the
commencement of works of such schemes. Criteria for the selection of the
five breached schemes under the project are as follows:
(a) Schemes would be designed according to the technical criteria set out
in the booklet entitled "Design of Irrigation Headworks for Small
Catchments" published by the Irrigation Department in September 1982.
(b) Command area under each scheme should not be less than 80 ha.
(c) Schemes should be located in inhabited areas with easy access.
(d) The area to be brought under direct maha irrigation should be at least
three times the cultivated lands submerged by the schemes.
(e) The cost for a scheme including all civil works and physical contin-
gencies value at mid-1983 prices but excluding price contingencies,
engineering and administration should not exceed Rs 40,000 per ha, Rs
50,000 per direct beneficiary, and Rs 8,000 per scheme.



74
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(iv) ID should maintain close communication with the elected representatives of
farmer groups (vel-vidane) or group leaders of farm associations in each
major irrigation scheme to be rehabilitated. ID, jointly with farmer
representatives, should inspect channels to be rehabilitated and solicit
farmers views on requirements for rehabilitation. At such joint inpec-
tions, ID officials should explain reasons for any inability to incor-
porate farmers' suggestions and should seek farmer-community labor support
during construction (particularly for the field distribution system) and
inform farmers about possible land and right-of-way requirements.  There-
after, ID would formulate a proposal for rehabilitation and discuss this
in follow-up meetings with the farmer representative and farmers. At such
meetings ID officials should also seek farmer consensus for the proposal
and arrange for appropriate local participation. Local consultants to be
engaged by ID for scheme planning and design should also attend these
meetings.
(v) A coordinated operational program for each scheme should be worked out
among ID, Agricultural Department and DAS staff for preparation of the
water management program. This operational program would: (a) adjust
water releases to rainfall in the command area; (b) adjust crop calendars
to benefit fully from rainfall and conserve stored water for irrigation
releases during the yala season; and (c) determine canal flows on the
basis of crop needs; and (d) schedule rotational water deliveries from
authorized outlets and inform all concerned farmers of the schedule.
(vi) An improved system of communication should be developed to facilitate
emergency repairs and daily operations. Maintenance roads for the canal
system should be well maintained or constructed progressively if
non-existent.
(vii) During operation, reliable hydrological data should be collected regularly
and systematically recorded and analyzed. Results of such analyses should
be reviewed periodically to permit any required modifications in the water
delivery program or cropping patterns.
(viii) Rehabilitation of schemes should ultimately result in water savings and
create favorable conditions for developing HYV crops as well as increasing
agricultural yields in maha and increase cultivation during yala.
B. Minor Irrigation Schemes
(i) Rehabilitation and modernization works of minor schemes should be carried
out by DAS as an extension of its normal work program and should be
operated following O&M guidelines specified under the VIR Project. The
main objectives included in the project are to improve cropping inten-
sities and yields through enhanced reliability and distribution of water
supplies.



75
ANNEX 2
Page 3
(ii) Arrangements for collecting and updating hydrological data should be made.
Flood discharging capacity of spillways or anicuts and schedule of irriga-
tion wyater delivery should be reviewed periodically and any required
modification carried out. An individual plan should be prepared for each
scheme, including a broad outline of an integrated program of water
management and operational procedures. Rehabilitation works should be
designed and implemented strictly according to ID specifications.
(iii) Criteria for selection of schemes to be rehabilitated under the project
are as follows:
(a) Schemes would be designed according to the technical criteria set out
in the booklet entitled "Design of Irrigation Headworks for small
Catchments" published by the Irrigation Department in September 1982.
(b) Command area under each tank/anicut should not be less than 20 ac.
(c) Each scheme should benefit at least 10 families.
(d) Soils of catchment areas, reservoir and command areas should be
satisfactory.
(e) Cost of all rehabilitation and modernization works should not exceed
Rs 100,000 per scheme.
(vi) DAS officials should maintain close communication with farmer groups
associated with each scheme to be rehabilitated. DAS should arrange, in
cooperation with the GA, a meeting with concerned farmer groups for the
purpose of: (a) establishing priorities for schemes in a particular
region; (b) explaining the proposed rehabilitation scheme; and soliciting
farmer input into planning; (c) discussing prospective farmer-donated
labor for construction, particularly for field channels and water courses
in the distribution system and for carrying out minor repairs to the canal
system during operation; (d) explaining final plans, construction
schedules, and operating program and arranging appropriate farmer par-
ticipation in a follow-up meeting; and (f) concerned KVS and appropriate
Subject Matter Specialist from the Agricultural Extension Service should
be invited to attend such meetings.
(vii) DAS should work out a water management program for each scheme in consult-
ation with Agricultuiral Extension Service staff and farmers. This program
should include: (a) adjustment of water releases from the tank to rain-
fall to meet crop water requirements in the command area; and (b) adjust-
ment of crop calendars to benefit fully from rainfall and if possible
conserve stored water for irrigation delivery during yala.



76
ANNEX 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Planning Consultants for Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes
Draft Terms of Reference
Introduction and Description of Work
1.      Under the Project, the Irrigation Department (ID) would
rehabilitate five major schemes in Mannar, and 14 in Vavuniya. Because ID
would not be able to prepare required plans, designs and cost estimates
adequately for all the schemes within the time required, GOSL has employed
local engineering consultants to carry out, under ID supervision, field
investigations, and to prepare preconstruction reports for 10 such
schemes. Consultants would also be employed to investigate, plan and
design works for the five breached tanks in Vavuniya. ID would complete
preconstruction reports for the remaining four schemes.
2.      The consultants already engaged would provide necessary profes-
sional and technical services to assist ID in preparation of plans,
detailed designs, schedule of quantities, and cost estimates and economic
analyses for irrigation schemes included in the project. Plans for all
such schemes should include water management programs. Consultants have
been employed in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for the uTse of
Consultants, dated August 1981, and the agreement signed, after IDA
approval., on January 23, 1Q83.  Preliminary investigations (Part I) for
the ten rehabilitation works were expected to be completed by end-February
and preconstruction investigations and final designs (Part II) by
end-August 1083.  In addition, ID would engage local consultants for the
five breached schemes proposed for rehabilitation in Vavuniya.
3.      The consulting firm to be engaged by ID for these five schemes
should liaise with the Deputy Director/Chief Engineer (CE) responsible for
respective schemes and should look to him for technical guidance. All
plans, detailed designs, schedule of quantities, and cost estimates and
economic analyses prepared by planning consultants would be in accordance
with ID specifications and in line with agreed criteria and guielines for
plans and designs for rehabilitation of major and minor irrigation schemes
(Annex 2). All construction should be carried out in accordance with
agreed plans, designs and ID specifications. ID should make available to
the planning consultants all available data, i.e., surveys, maps, etc.,
pertinent to each specific scheme. Any additional data required would be
the responsibility of the planning consultants and should be collected by
them as part of the agreement.



77
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Consultancy Services Proposals
4.      Services to be provided by consultants for the five rehabilitation
works should include the following:
(a) collection of data and analysis, including flood hydrology;
(b) preparation of working plans, field investigations and sur-
veys, submission of reports, detailed designs, construction
drawings, analysis of rates, bill of quantities, engineers'
estimates and tender documents;
(c) preparation of cropping patterns, calendars and operational
studies to indicate cropping intensities possible with avail-
able water resources;
(d) preparation of a Technical Report describing existing fea-
tures and scope of proposed work to attain objectives of
rehahilitation to civil works, construction costs and
implementation schedules in physical and financial terms.
In addition, the Report should include an economic analysis.
The Report should also include a schematic issue-tree of the
distribution system, cultivation in command area and proposed
sub-areas for rotational irrigation;
(e)  resolution of problems arising from (a) to (d) until con-
struction completion;
(f) field investigations and surveys;
5.      It is envisaged that services (a) through (f) would be performed
by the following personnel:
Designation                                   Staff-Months
Team Leader                                         6
Planner Engineer                                    6
Design Engineer                                    10
Agriculturalist and Economist                       4
Technical Assistants and Draughtsmen               20
4-6
The services with respect to (g) are envisaged to he performed by the
following personnel:
Designation                                   Staff-Months
Technical Assistant/Surveyors                     20
Draughtsmen                                        25



78
ANNEX 3
Page 3
The Consultants should submit proposals for services (a) through (f) in
terms of staff-months. For the services in (g) the Consultants should
submit survey proposals in terms of unit length rates for main/branch,
distributary, field and drainage channels and in unit area rates for
structures.
Special Conditions of Contract
(a) Consultants proposals should be inclusive of all services in
(a) through (g) of para 4 for each scheme. Proposals for only
part of the services will result in proposal rejection.
(b) Services should he performed according to an agreed implemen-
tation schedule (not to exceed 12 months) and approved revi-
sions thereto.
(c) Consultants should prepare monthly progress claims on or
before the 10th of the following month showing per
staff-months employed in the month with a brief narrative
statement of work done by each person, and should submit such
claims to a Range Deputy Director who shall review claims
and certify payment of 75% of staff-month claims.  A monthly
progress claim should also include quantities surveyed in that
month; the Range Deputy Director shall review these, verify
work done, and certify 50% payment of survey claims. Ralances
due for staff-months should be paid on submission of the
Technical Report; and balances due for surveys, on submission
of all drawings to the satisfactory to the Range Deputy Direc-
tor.
Submission of Proposal for Consulting Contract
Staff-month quotations should present fees, including salaries and
related expenses such as transport, travelling, office equipment and
supplies, office space, administrative staff, residential accommodation,
pay for necessary supporting staff, technical hack-up services at site and
at headquarters, and any other facilities required for site inspections.
ID would not be responsible for these facilities. Staff-month estimates
given in quotations could not he exceeded except under extraordinary
circumstances.



79
ANNEX 4
Table I
SRI LANEA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Major Irrigation Schemes - Salient Features
Storage
Catchmeent     Bund/      Length   Capacity                                     Irrigated Area
Name of the Scheme   area (sq.mi) Anicut(ft)   (ft)         Ac.ft    Left Bank        Right Bank         Left      Rih -t   Present Condition of the Scheme
MANNAR
1. Kurai Tank           4-6/9.6         22       3 M 800 ft  2,062    24'D-RCC         24"D-RCC         ------700------   Tank does not fill to full
Tower           Type                             capacity, hence only a part of the
commend area is irrigated. Center
structures are badly damaged. Tank
bund and channel systen require
extensive repaira also.
2. Periya Pardivi-         32.40        20          5,550    2,816    1B'D-Tower    240D-Tower          ------245------   A construction scheme.  Tank
richchan Tank                                                              Type           Type                          requires redesign and construction.
The channel system and construction
require large scale repair work.
3. Perlyamadu Tank        142.00        30          6,300    5,700      2 Nos.         240D-Tower       ------305------   Tank bund and channel are badly
Type             Type                            damaged.  Control structures do not
exist.
4. Mullikulam Tank         16.75        16          4,000       -      240D-Tower           -           ------150------   Tank bund is sluiced.  Channel
system is in a bad state. Control
structures hardly exist and are
unable to control water delivery.
5. Mogaragam Anicut      336.00          6             _       _         3 Nos.         42"D-Tower      ------400-         Anicut augments the storage in
Type                           Viyadikulam aend the minor tanks
VAVUNIYA
1. Kallasadu Tank          20.20        15          3,750       615      -             I8"-Tower        -         160.0    This is a working tank irrigating
Type                           only 275 ac.  By raising the bund
beight 2', it is proposed to
irrigate 400 ac. Tank bund and
canal system need improvement.
2. Chemamadu Tank          14.50        16          5,000    2,550    24"D-Tower    240D-Tower         122.5      122.5    The canal system is badly damaged
Type           Type                          and needs extensive repairs. Con-
struction of center structures
is essential.
3. Maharaubikulam           6.10        18          3,850       643    12'-D Tower    9"D-Tower         55.0       35.0    The canal system is badly damaged
Type          Type                          and need extensive repairs. Center
structures are broken and need
reconetruction.
4. Mamaduwa Tank           26.00        20          6,480    3,030      9'-D Tower   12'D-Masonry    ------405R-------   ehabilitation is needed for the Tank
Type    9D-Masonry                          bund which is in a bad condition.
in the center                        Channel systems require complete
rehabilitation & construction of
center structures.
5. Madukande Tank           4.30        16          3,550    1,400      9'-D Tower   L20D-Tower         ------160-------  A purana scheme due to storage of
Type          Type                          water, tail and canal not getting
water. Channels are ailted up and
central structures need reconstruc-
tion.
6. Muhattankulam           34.00        22          6,000    2,400    24'-D Tower            -          ------325------   Tank bund and chanuel system require
Type                                        extensive repairs.  Only 650 ac are
very irrigularly irrigated.
7. iratperlyakulas         12.20        20          5,319    3,534    12'-D Masonry 18^-D,l10D          ------220------   Tank bund and channel system need
Wells Masonry Walls                        extensive repairs.  Full area
irrigation has not been possible.
S. Pertys Thampanai Tank 23.40          20          5,200    1,095    18"D-Tower    18"D-Tower          -----160-----   Tank bund and channel system need
Type          Type                           extemaive repairs.  Full area
irrigation has aot been possible.
9. Vavunmya Tank           10.50        22          5,200    1,617    12"'DMasonry   9'D-Masonry    ------17 ------   Tank bund, spill and sluice, and
channel system require large scale
rehabilitatlon. Center stuctures
do not exist,



SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Electrification Schemes - Salient Features
Prospective Consumers
Commercial  Agric.  33 KV         LT Line       Substations      Cost    Rate of
Name of Scheme                   Domestic  and others  Wells   Line    3Ph          1 Ph   KVA        LT      Rs M    Return
-Km---------
MANNAR
Uyilankulam                       15          75         5        -       2.90    -       250       33      0.65    16.00
Vankalai                         200          20         -        3.2    1.50   1.50   100          33      1.28      7.00
Tharapuram                        60          15         -        0.3    0.75   1.50    63          33      0.50      6.00
Erukkilampiddy                   1O0          80         -         1.2    2.00   5.00   160         33      1.38      7.00
Murunkan Sambantivu Junction  100            100          -         -     3.70   0.50   250         33      1.00    15.00
Madhu Road                        30          20         -          -     1.00   0.60   100         33      0.40      7.00
Madhu Church                     300           10        -       12.8      -       -      400       33      3.12      5.00
Thiruketheeswaram-Adampan-
Andankulam-Alkaddiveli           350         200        20       14.9    4.00   1.80   160 a/   33 h/  4.36    12.00
Nanaddan-Puthirakandan            65          70        35        8.0    1.50   2.55   160 c/   33 d/  2.62    12.00
Total               1,220         590        60       40.4   17.35  13.45                       15.53
VAVUNIYA
1. Mamaduwa                       30          10        50        7.57   0.32   1.94    53          33      2.40      6.00
2. Madukanda                      25          10        35        2.41   1.77   0.32    63          33      1.10      8.00
3. Nedunkerney                    95          80        90       11.50   3.00   1.20   250          33      4.15      8.00
4. Cheddikulam                   135          85        70       22.70   4.20   4.00   250          33      7.40      5.00
5. Omanthai                       25          40        39        5.63   1.93   1.20   100          33      2.30      5.00
6. Noochimoddai                   30           5        35        3.10   0.64   0.97    63          33      1.10      7.00
7. Sastrikulam                    40           5        85        7.40   0.80   0.80    63          33      2.30      7.00
8. Poovarasamkulam                35          30        35        2.41   2.01   1.20    63          33      1.40      6.00
9. Pampiamadu                     10           -        35        3.86      -    1.60    63         33      1.30      5.00
10. Rajendrakulam e/                5           5        15           -      -    2.00    63         33      0.40      9.00
Total                 430         270       485       66.58  14.67  15.23                       23.85
a/ Plus two substations of 63 KVA.
b/ Three substations of 33 LT.                                                                                               c 
c/ Two substations of 33 LT.
e/ 33 KV HT line are proposed to be Drovided under ADB project from Puttalam to lNllukulam.                                    X



81
ANNEX 4
Table 3
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL I)EVELOPM0NT PROJECT
Feeder and Rural Roads - Salient Features
Length of Road
To Be Con-     Requiring    Requiring   Reconstru-   Construc-    Construc-
atructedl    Metalling &   Earthwork   ction  of    tion of          tion of
Name of Road                          Improved        Tarring       12" wide   Culverts      new culvers  causeways         Cost
------------------- KRr       ---------   ---------------Units---------------          (M Rs
I. MANNAR
A. Feeder Roads
1.  Murunkan-Chilavathurai              15.30           15.30                       -             -            -             1,600
2. Arippu-Marichchikaddy                22.50           22.50          -            1             -            -             1,500
3. Murunkan-Nanaddan                     8.05            8.05           -           2             2            -               800
4.  Uyilankulaim-ManalkulamV-anaddan    8.05             8.05          -            1             1            -               800
5.  Manthai-Parappukadanthan             7.65            7.65          -            1             3            -               700
6.  Thallady-Vakalai-Nanaddan           12.45           12.45          -            1             1            -             1,480
7.  Pramanalankulam-Parappukadanthan  20.50              4.80        15.70          1            10            -             1,615
8.  Sirunavathkulam-Vankali              3.20            3.20          -            -             -            -               415
9. Yahilankulam-Pallamadhu              33.80            6.45         27.35         3            12            -             2,300
10. Uyilankulam-Alkaddiveli              6.45            6.45          -            1             1            -               700
11. Nanaddan-Arippu                      6.05              -           6.05         3             2            -               3no
12. Veppankulam-Periyamuvippu            2.40              -           2.40         -             2            -               120
13. Puthakukamam                         4.40              -           4.40         1             2            -               320
14. Potkerny-Pandaraveli                 2.80              -           2.8n         1             2            -               150
15. Nannadan-Potkerny                    7.25              -           7.25         1             3            -               400
Suh-total           160.85           94.00        65.95         17            41            -             3,200
B. Fishery Roads
Fishery roads with length from
0.5 rd to 2.0 mi including
roads inside the village                45.85              -          45.85                                    -             4,000
C. Rural Roads                            100.00              -         100.00        -             -             -             4,300
Total                  306.70           94.90        211.80                                                 21,500
II.VAVtlNIYA
A. Feeder Roads
1. Nedunkerni-Koolankulam              15.70            4.90        10.80         -             5             -                 0.90
2. Illamaruthankulam-Samalankulam       7.65            2.45          5.20        -             3             -                 0.44
3. Poovarasankulam-Cheddikulam         12.15            3.35          7.80        2             4             1                 0.70
4. Mahilankulam-Palamadu               25.75            6.85        18.90         6             6             2                 1.47
5. Puthoor-Palamoddai                  28.15             -          28.15         8             6             1                 1.61
6. Maniarkulam-Pirappamadu              8.05              -          8.05         -             2            -                  0.46
7. Olukulam-Vaikuttiyoor               10.45            0.80         9.65         2             1             -                 0.60
8. Pandikeithakulam-Marayadithakulam  3.85              1.20         2.65         3             3             -                 0.22
9. Cheddlkulam-Thadarikulam            10.45            1.20          9.25        2             2             -                 0.60
10. Piramanalankulam-Parappukadanthan  9.65              4.40          5.25        5             5             2                 0.55
11. Kalnaddinakulam-Asikulam             5.65              -           5.65        2             1             -                 0.32
12. Mutha]iyakulam-Anaivilanthan         6.45              -           6.45        3             3             2                 0.37
13. Navatkulam-Morayadithakulam          4.65              -          9.65         -             2             -                 0.55
14. Pandichurichan-Andiyapuliyankulam  9.65                -           9.65        3             6             -                 0.55
15. Iratperiyakulam-Puthoor              7.75              -           7.25        2             3             -                 0.42
16. Koolankulam-Marailuppai             13.65              -          13.65        2             3             -                 0.78
17. Mamaduwa-Karunkalikulam             13.65            6.85          6.80        -             3             1                 0.78
18. Periyakulam-Katkulam                 6.05              -           6.05        -             3             -                 0.35
19. Mankulam-Maruthamadu-Minhetigama   8.85                -           8.85        2             3             1                 0.51
20. Sinnaputhukulam                      6.95            2.10          4.85        1             -             -                 0.40
21. Palamoddai-Moondumuripu             10.45              -          10.45        5             5             -                 0.60
22. Poovarasankulam-Thunnukai           25.35           14.50         10.85        4             4             -                 1.45
23. Rambaikulam-Palamoddai               9.65            9.25          0.40        -             -             -                 0.55
24. Nainamadu-Samalankulam              12.85              -          12.85        -             2             -                 0.73
25. Nedunkerni-Thannimurippu             2.80              -           2.80        -             3             -                 0.16
26. Nelukulam-Neriyakulam               21.70           21.50          0.20        -             -             -                 1.24
27. Kanagarayankulam                     4.00              -           4.00        -             2             2                 0.23
28. Madukande-Iratperiyakulam           15.30           10.05          5.25        -             -             2                 0.87
29. Neriyakulam-Thamankulam              3.20            0.80          2.40        2             4             2                 0.18
30. Mamaduwa-Marailupai                  9.65            2.00          7.65        4             1             1                 0.55
31. Omanta-Illamaruthankulam             8.45            8.45             -        -             -             -                 0.48
32. Vairavapuliyankulam                  1.20            1.20             -        -             -             -                 0.07
33. Velikulamw-4amaduwa                  8.05            8.05             -        -             -             -                 0.46
Sub-total            353.30          109.90       241.40        58            84             7                20.15
B. Rural Roads                         1nO.OO            _           100.00        -             -             -                 4.50
Total                453.30          14.f90       341.40                                                      24.65



lI-IC)                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~82
AdNEX 4
Table~ 4
P.ge 2 01 3
SRI LANIKA
Third Rural D-elOp-rnt Project
0001010    Sri L.tra                                         rOOCU.EMENOrOCEDULEIRO  VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                        ,   Thlrd Sor-O  D-velo.pent
.83                         ,84                          185                          I86                           187
21. Vibrt-o2                    ICB      2.2  .... .
22. Retriger-tio- (5 =T)l 110                                                                                                         X 00                                                  5  _
23. Refrigerto-  x 13            PS       .5 I  1, 110
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  41. Cetriul 8m   lu                                        I   >           Jti   I      t:
24. Air C-rditioe
2000 BTVo  2                PS      1.3   .
25. RAtr P..P, p         PiN.                 I11411                                       t 10)I    I
& Norer   Tools    9        PS      4.3   1)0
26.  Pair  or-   Soa       |j PS          .7
27. IMr.o    d roll. E  7        PS      2 .4                        I | I I  |I
I I llLLL 11, L9 15 aL t19 1 1 1I 1 1 1 11 1Q I  I l | IR               X     lfI , f     1   1  JI  f II f
29. P.rer Spryer-a 2             PS |     .1 5 10010
Cor4w }let rquioffernt s    PS       1.26=     :    F    1    tt    2    t11   lLIl   i  Ll  t  t  I 0 t r t t I t I I t t i f tIt             ti I         It
31. PIstfoar Wright
So-le                    PS       1.03  001
32. Di.l S8rSrog
33.  Tbedliote.  a 3            PA     15.6  010010
34. L-1e. & Trlpod. a          PS      15.6                                                  -
35. T-o REiEar . 4            TCE      10.4  0D010G
36. 1ear-  Lih.812a 6           PS      2.6
37. Ergi--ei.& Ch.ir .1)1
39. S-ray Polar a 47            PA      1.02 501 
40. VA .. I Wi-ahe. so 2        PS        .96                     -
2-1-oh e 2                 PS        .9601er             -- 
42. R.,d P-ep. a ISO            PS      21.7
43. S-rg-ry EqoRp-teat
_lW_TVAO^TlOll~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                 GII       I*                                              ofYW C  IOC.  I KIA It^AC  IF IC:fFO
E44   el IFMI   Child. Kit                                                                                                                                                                                - - - - --  -RO
28Il0l*lT0                                                   01 10PS.rll 010



FOEM NO. 93                                                                                           M3
ANNEGx 4
T.ble 4
SRI LfNEA                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pope I of 3
SRI LANKA
Third Rur.l Development Project
ROCUOMONT SHEUUEFOP VEIICLRS AND RQRJIPMEBTThHR- D -I.t
COT..zY    Sri I-tk-  ___                                                                                                               T rRcuRMENscHDuLfoRVllLe3APDEQUFMeT  .o... 4hird Rrl Dvelopment
____         ____        ___ ___                                                                                                ole
<14 352 '-+ --q;W;3X- g gll_  C ffX? 05 -i
14 FFICLES                                                    St 6 7a
I. 5-T-o Trork . 2         ICB      30.9  _ac*oc
2. 3-Too T-rk               ICB    473. s |1
3. -Too Scoter Pvr|T)-}    
T oru                    ICB A   10.4 e         -
z | W I_^ t _ \ I ~~~~~~~~~1;Z1  41    01                                  9     4 1   Tn1  7PIv T   II     I T1 iLO] i    l   i I I A       1ti1I  I  Al i  I Ii   I   II 
4. 4-Whee.l DrivDi .t. I
5. flicihne (I  aecter)    It        13.1t ococ        -  - 
A. 3in6M               ICR    391.3 0T
Ll4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al 8s  r                t E45P1 9 2jW :5                                                                                                                                !!7 ltl
| 5. M i.ty. Cotol|IC1 6 ...E m|     t-)   ICB1z   
7. .irkp                  ICED 9i .0   -e
9. P .... g-r C-r   5        PS     31.3
9. Aub.in 3 ICB 52.1 eooc
EQUIPMENT
1. Motor Grader            ICB   39.1 I            .
2. Front-rod S.oodcr        lOB   26.1  ecoac     -      - 
3. DIi d... ._D-4           c     26.1
4. PFre T-ator .1ti                                                                       
Trailer n IS          IC%  130.4  eea
5. T-r-Wheel Teator
A. DEbarT fct-r
Rqotp-net             ice      .87  cac        -          -
7. RipT   Ttp.
.nct-re             C- G    435--
8. Trailer                 1GB    1.1                                                                                                                                                 - - -- -       
9. 2-Ton Water Boner
a0                Ica   28.2                                                                                                                                                     - -n-- - 
iD. 1-Ton T-diD-
Bo-  arr                ICB   13.1 ecen-. ---
ll. Milk Boaee  . 2         1GB    60.8    0             -
12. Milk Chilling Tanks
13. Miik GCne (45 lit.r.onna 
14. Rydno.tG.e  x AS          PS    .19
13. Qoaliny OenEpRl3    1                                                          5
Unit a 2               Ica    86.9  ceD          -      -     -
16. Gnertor 12 X.
17. GeRertor . 3             GOB    13.1 .ic              -    .
is. Egnipaent E., fleet
Protection               cOB    13.5                               
19. T-ebine P.pe a 13    1GB        SR.2nca 
20. Vibrtor Roll*r   2   lOB         1              -     -



1,-eR                                                                                                                                                                                              AOT 484
AStbY 4
Page 3 of 3
SR1 LANKA
Third R.r-I D.-eIoroRci Pr-i-ct
cooaRocCoeioEOsoc,oR C        4VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
cS SiLqk.                                                                                                                                c _Third Rar.1 D-el.    pIet
I  os,r,,cec,.,         0 s00 0
_________ _        400oo     _                                                                                           0 ____  I   sR4    s8       |             37 i88
51. O-erhe-d Pro- c-or   PR              .0;      0C           I 
53. Teechi.g Aid.               PS      4.3 _1
54. Pri-ey SchoolAi4    5 8
Eqoip-eot Rit c 153        PS    39.9   Cocooc                          +       -
_  li 9 rl 41 5s 81S1   91                   ;        I    0        ;nT0la: I r ;ir   T;|I1l
55. Sci-.c Eqoipooe,t    P                                                                                                           
for 7r. Sec. Schoole    P5   101.5                  -_AS --  f----  t+C<=_2C    t_;C>-4 i
56. Sci-nc  Eq.ipocet                          09: 0N0c  -
for Sr. Se.. School    PS    28.2   00 .
57. I.qip-tfl  f-r
V5 c-tiool Ttrioiog   IC5   332.6                                                                                                                                                                                   | . -
38. libr-r  BooRs o 20          PS    43.35000
59. Lib-rry EOqip.-ent           S        48   9                                                I               1- ,
60. Roetel Forit-rc             PS0   I     7
I          IIASA                        r ;  -;v5rrr                    911   11       1       IPlI   II   I       Iioy     l rTa    rI  raSTlT                             Tl     T 1II   11I         1 
615. Paniture                  PS     127.5
62. OffSc-  iqoijeeco          PS      22.4
63. Oifire Tqoipne-         L P5       4.1  s-oiI                                                                                                                                          I
Pornitoce
j tocpt  p3   4X                                                                                                               |1 1 f||~~~~114  1   I                                   i  | 
64. Weed. Pornitore &
Eq.ip.e-t              PS       22.7
73 tereftirgHschtnex21~~~~~~~~   L4 r8                                    11I   L+!11 I0s411tm t0
65. Fi .h tin g     M.rhide    PS       6. 
54
66. PritiSog M.ehi,oC          PS       5.    ..
67. CIi.Wt.  e                                                                                                          T    ! PS  2..2  I7          l
68. Typ.-ritre oc S            PS      10.2  ..          -.    --- 
69. PhotocoPier-e 5            PS      25.0 Ll000
70. S-ey EqIipseI It PS                170 I0
71. Seede  Eqoip ..et           Ps       .22                                                                                                                                            -  - --c-.
72. D-i    Eq.ip-t Pesoc         R     6.3                                                                                                         I 
73. Brafti.9 Meohiec   2   PS            .86
74. Other Hi..o. U.---
Eq.ipseet               PS     7.6
75. Fi.hiog Boot cod G.e    PS   21.7    5c                - -
,e.o.eATeftOcl        05O~~~~~~~~~~~5fN0.4.0,,O0S                                                                 057000 05 5*00L000107~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I 
M.rewoTmainI*        00000cr, esco coocsoco s.c c00.00500510,co               ,00fl5c 0EO0S50t000~0E                 Co.escot0-t000
...o0a0,d55e0054440 eN,0.5005005c,0 005000c00,   s.5005s0tOS.cooS,o



85
ANNFX 5
Page 1
SRI LANKA
THIRD RTRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
General Lending Terms and Conditions
A. General. Agricultural loans would not be given to defaulters, and
borrowers should possess agro-identity cards (similar to that used in
Kurunegala RDP). For better credit control and supervision, banks should
exchange lists of defaulters, and farmers would be required to borrow from
only one bank. Before sanctioning each loan, field officers should
inspect the proposed site of each investment, assess its financial
viability, and study the repayment capacity of the farmer-applicant.
Disbursement would be in cash and in kind. Ranks would service loans,
including appropriate visits to farmers, until loans are repaid.
B. Terms and Conditions. Loans for farm machinery and equipment and for
draft animals would be repayable in semi-annual installments over a maxi-
mum of five years. Loans for farm machinery and draft animals would also
be available to farmer associations. A downpayment of 20% would be
required for such loans. Loans for construction of open dug wells and for
land clearing and improvement would be repayable in up to seven years,
including a grace period of up to one year. For farm equipment, a first
lien (or other mortgage) would be taken on the equipment item. In addi-
tion to such lien, in the case of draft animals a certificate from the
veterinary surgeon on the animal's condition and a life insurance policy,
would be required. For loans to construct open dug wells and for land
improvement, mortgages will be taken on land.
C.  Refinancing and Guarantee,  In line with current COSL refinancing
policies, the Central Rank would provide 100% refinancing of loans for
draft animals, farm machinery, equipment, and infrastructure.  PB and BC
would lend at their own risk and would not be given any GOSL guarantee
against default.
D. Interest Rates and Spreads. In line with current COSL policy, inter-
est rates to be charged to farmers would be 12.5% with a penalty rate of
3% p.a. for late payment. Refinance from the Central Bank would be at
8.5%. The current spread is considered adequate; however, the Central
Rank, through its Rural Credit Department, would study the adequacy of the
spread and the level of on-lending interest, at least every two years and
furnish the results of this study to IDA. Spreads and levels of
on-lending interest would be readjusted as necessary in consultation with
IDA.



86
ANNFX 6
Page 1
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines and Criteria for
Rural Water Supply Wells
1.      Rural water supply wells would be constructed by the Department of
Local Goverrment. Areas deficient in drinking water should be identified
for siting wells to be constructed under the project. About 5X of exist-
ing and all proposed new wells should be subjected to chemical tests for
drinking suitability.
2.      Guidelines for site selection for construction of rural wells
would be as follows:
(a)  Willingness of prospective users to provide at least 25X of
unskilled labor requirements.
(b) There should not be any usable public community well or
pipe-borne water scheme within a radius of 0.4 km.
(c) The well should serve a minimum of 20 families.
(d) The site should be selected in consultation with the National
Supply and Drainage Board to minimize risk of well failure.
(e) A chemical test of water suitability for drinking purposes
should be carried otit on nearby wells before any new well is
constructed.



87
ANNEX 7
Page 1
SRI LANKA
THIRD RIJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agency Responsibility for Project Implementation
Agency                                     Responsibility
1. Ministry of Agricultural
Development and Research
(a) Department of Agrarian        -   Rehabilitation of minor irrigation schemes,
Services (DAS)                    water management and input supplies
(h) Department of Agricul-        -   Adaptive research, farmers training and
ture (DA)                         production and distribution of seeds
2. Ministry of Education
Regional Department of            -   Primary and secondary education
Education (RDE)
3. Ministry of Finance and
Planning
(a) People's Bank (PB)            -   Administration of agricultural credit
program
(b) Bank of Ceylon (BC)           -   Administration of agricultural credit
program
4. Ministry of Fisheries
(a) Welfare Division (WD)         -   Beacon Lights
(b) Sri Lanka Fishery liarbors    -   Fishery service center
Corporation (SLFHC)           -   Study of Arnolda Canal
5. Ministry of Food and
Cooperatives
Department of Cooperative         -   Distribution of agricultural
Development (DCD)                     credit
6. Ministry of Health
Department of Health (DOB)        -   Hlealth services



88
ANNEX 7
Page 2
7. Ministry of Higher Education
Technical Education Branch         -   Junior Technical College
(TEB)
8. Ministry of Land and Land
Development
Irrigation Department (ID)         -   Irrigation rehabilitation works, water
management and operation and mainte-
nance of all major irrigation schemes
Department of Forest (DF)          -   Forest development
Water Resources Board (WRB)        -   Groundwater exploration and development
9. Ministry of Local Government
Department of Local Govern-        -   Construction and maintenance of rural
ment Services (DLGS)                   roads and drinking wells
10. Ministry of Plan Implementation
(a) Regional Development          -   Project coordination, management,
Division (RDD)                     monitoring and evaluation
(b) Procurement Unit              -   Procurement of equipment and vehicles
centrally procured
(c) Accounting IJnit              -   Centralized budgeting and accounting
11. Ministry of Power and Highways
Department of Highways (DH)         -   Construction and maintenance of feeder
roads
Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB)    -   Rural electrification
12. Ministry of Rural Industrial
Development
Department of Animal Prod-         -   Livestock development and animal
uction and Health (DAPH)               health
National Milk Board (NMB)          -   Milk collection, processing and marketing
National Livestock Develop-        -   Livestock breeding stations and
ment Board (NLDB)                      organization of dairy cooperatives



89
ANNEX 7
Chart r
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Chart
(Mannar&Vavuniya)                                       (Colombo)
District Minister                _ Th_c  Unit  P_c Cel_                  Project M toro
Rura D evelopmento t
Govemnrnent Agent                                                                          Projects 
Committee - Mannar                Committee      vunee CommSteering Committeee
Project Coordinttion
Connmittee_2/i1
Director    |                                DDrector
Project Director  Regional _t _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  Procurement
Developmen           C                            Unit
.                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Div ision
Plnnn    _            ehiclUi                                             Project Monitoring|
Account Unit         Planitoing Unit&   (ContractUnm    Autt het& Evoluat,on Unit                                 (
,   =  Momtormg Unit  (Contrsct Sthff)     Unit                        ~~~~~~~~~~(Contract Staff)|
'J/ Project Coordinating                       DrProject Coordinating                   2  Rural Development Projects
Committee -Mannar                               Committee -Vavuniya                          Steenng Commitee
DistrictMinister         (Chairm(n)            District Minister       (Chairm mn)         Secretory Miristry of Plan
GovemngnetAgent           (Vrce-Chairman)      GovernmentgAgent       (VIce-Chairmen)        Implementttion              (Chairme n)
Director. RDD   (rMember)
Secretory)
Cholrmman. Agrlculturol Develop
mentcAuthority               (Member)
Derector RDD                   (Member)        Director RDD                  (Member)       Director, Irrgeatlon          (Member)
Chief Engineer, Errgesfion      (Member)       Chet Engineer. Irrigation     (Member)       Director, Hlghways            (Member)
Chief Engineer Highways        (Member)        Chief Engineerr Highways      (Member)       Dlrector. Agrculture          (Member)
SuperintendentvEngineer, Building   (Member)   Supersitendent Engineer, Building (Member)   Dlrector, Buildings           (Member)
Deputy Provincisl Director, ADA  (Member)      Deputy Provincial Director, ADA   (Member)  Director, General Education    (Member)
District Agricultural Extension Officer (Member)  District Agricultural Extension          Director, Higher Educcotion)   (Member)
Assistant Commissioner, Agrarian   (Mernber)    Officer                      (Member)      Director, Health Servces       (Member)
District Lvestock Officer      (Mernber)       Assistant Commissioner, Agrarian (Member)   Director, Planning, Ministry of
Dairy Development Officer      (Member)        District Livestock Officer    (Member)        Pinance and Ponning          (Member)
Divisional Forestry Officer    (Member)        Dairy Development Officer     (Member)      Director. Antmal Production and
District Manager. Bank of Ceylon    (Member)   Divisional Forestry Officer   (Member)        Health                       (Member)
Regional Manager, People's Bank  (Member)      District Manager, Bank of Ceylon  (Member)   Director Development Finance,
Assistant Commissioner. Local                  Regional Manager. People's Bank (Member)     Central Bank                  (Member)
Government                    (Member)       Assistant Commissioner. Local                Commissioner, Agrarian Services  (Member)
Assistant General Manager. NWS                  Government                  (Member)       Director, Agrarian Research and
and DB                       (Member)        Assistant General Manager. NWS                Train ng                     (Member)
Superintendent of Health Sevices   (Member)     and DB                      (Member)       Commissioner. Locol Govemrnment (Member)
Regional Director of Education  (Member)       Superintendent ot Heolth Services (Member)  General Manager. National Water
Project Director (Secretary)   (Member/        Regional Director of Education   (Member)     Supply ana Drainage Boord    (Member)
Secretary)     Prolect Director             (Member/       General Manager, Water
Deputy Generai Manager, Water                                                Secretary)      Resources Board              (Memeber)
Resources Board              (Member)        DeputY Genera Manager.Water (Member)         General Manager. Bonk of Ceylon (Member)
District Extension Officer, Fisheries   (Member)  Resources Board                          General Manager, People's Bank  (Member)
Government Agent. Mannaer and
Vavuniya/                   (Member)
Prolect Director, Mannar and
Vavunivo --/                (Member)
The secretaries of other Ministries concerned and Chairman
ot corporations concerned would attend meetings when
reauesred bv rho Chairman. Steering Committee.
2/ In matters concerned with the project in their respective districts
Worild Bank-24631



90
611l LANK                                                MM  
Table 1
THIRD RU6AL DZVRWP1011T PROJRCT
Annual Craps, Cropping Intensities. Input Requirements and Yield. (per E)
Yield (Kr/Ha)
Cropping   Harv,/                 Area       Seedling                                Fertilizer
IntonsIty   Soua   Area Sovn  harvested        Rate       Labor    Bullock       N2   P205   12Q    Pesticides   Misc.
R )                                                    T(day)   (pr-day)
A. MANNAR
Meajor Irrigation Schi.
laha (Irrigated)         p      50        75        1.95          2.6          90        90         25         45    15      10          200       300
Paddy                  Fo       50        75        1.95          2.6          90        90         25         45    15      10          200      300
FW      90        95        3.40          3.6          30       110         25         65    25      15          300       350
Maha (Rainfed)           P      20        60        1.20          2.0          90        90         35         30    10       5          150      250
Paddy                  FO       20        60        1.20          2.0          90        90         35         30    10       5          150      250
FW       5        70        1.40          2.0          90        90         35         30    10       5          150       250
Yale (Irrigated)         P       -         -        1.05          2.6          Q0        40         25         45    15      10          2no       300
Paddy                  PO        -         -        1.95          2.s          90        on         25         45    15      10          200      300
FW      10        95        3.40          3.6          30       110         25         65    25      15          300       350
Minor Irrigation
Mabha (Irrigated)        P      70        70        1.70          2.4          90        90         25         40    15      10          200       300
Paddy                  FO       70        70        1.70          2.4          90        90         25        40    15       10          200      300
FW      80        85        2.55          3.0          30       110         25         40    15      15          300       300
Maha (Rainfed)           p      10        65        1.30          2.0          90        90         35         30    10       5          150      250
Paddy                  Fo       10        65        1.30          2.0          90        90         35         30    10       5          150      250
Psi      5        65        1.40          2.0          90        90         35         30    10       5          150       250
Yala (Irrigated)         P       -        70        1.70          2.4          90        90         25         40    15      10          200       300
Paddy                  F0        -        70        1.70          2.4          90        90         25        40    15       10         200       300
FW       5        95        2.55          3.0          30       110         25         60    25      15          300       350
Tubevelle
Pirewood                 P     100         -         -            2.5           -         -          -         -     -       -            -        _
Fo     100         -         -            2.5           -         -          -        -      -       -            -        -
FW        0        -         -             -            -         -          _         _     _       _            _         _
Vegetables (Irrigated) P         -         -         -
P0       -         -         --                         -         -          -        -      _       _            _         _
FW      67%                  -            3.0           5       800         40        300   250    150          1000      1000
Vegetables (Rainfed)   P                   -                       -
Fo       -         -         -             -            -         -          _        _      _       _            _        _
FW      33         -         -            1.3           5       600         34        150   125      75           50       500
Dug velle
Vegetables (Rainfed)   P        15         -         _            1.3           5       600         35        150   125      75          500       500
(Rainfed)  P0       15         _         _            1.3           5       600         35        150   125      75          500      500
(Irrigated)  FR       45         -         -            3.0           5       800         40        300   250    150          1000     1000
Chillies   (Rainfed)   P        25         -         -            0.R           5       500         20         60   -36      18         1200       160
(Rainfed)  P0       25         -         -            0.8           5       500         20         60    36      16        1200       180
(Irrigated)  FW       30         -         -            1.4           5       625         20        100    60      30         2000       300
Pulses (Rainfed)         P      60         -         -            0.7          30       100         20        20    40       20         200        80
Po      60         -         -            0.7          30       100         20         20    40      20          200        80
rw      25         -         -            0.8          30       100         20         20    40      20          200        80
E. VAVUNIYA
Major Irrigation
M.".        ?Irrrigated)  P      60        75        1.70            2.4        90        90         25         40    15      10          200       300
Paddy                   F0       60        75        1.70            2.4        90        40         25         40    15      10          200       300
FW      90        95        3.20            3.4       110       110         2s         60    15      15          300       350
Maha        (Rainfed)    P       20        60        1.20            7.0        90        90         35         30    10       5          150       250
Paddy                    PO      20        60        1.20            2.0        90        90         35         30    10       5          150       250
FP      05        70        1.40            2.0        O        90         35         30    10       5          150       250
Yale        (Irrigated)  P         -        -        1.70            2.4        tn        90         25         40    15      1O          200       300
Paddy                    Po       -         -        1.70            2.4        90        90         25         40    15      10          200       300
PW      10        95        3.20            3.4        30       110         25         60    25      15          300       350
*=:i124ia  (Rainfed)    P          15        -         -               1.3        5       600         35        150   125      75           50       500
Fo     -15         -         -              1.3         5       600         35        150   125      75           50       500
(Irrigated) FY       45         -         -              3.0         5       800         40        300   250    150          1000      1000
Chillies   (Reinfed)    P        25         -         -              0.8         5       500         20         60    36    l           1200       180
Po      25         -         -              0.8         5       500         20         60    36      1S         1200       180
(IrriRated) Vw-      l0         -         -              1.2         5       625         20        100    60      30         2000      300
nulses      (Rainfed)    P       60         -         -              0.7        30       100         20         20    40      20         200         80
PO      60         -         -              0.7        30       100         20         20    40      20         200         80
AN      25         -         -              0.8        30       100         20         20    40      20         200         80



91
-AmIEX 8
Toble 2
CC  C                   zC                                                                                      C              0 0    e t e q  w < w
C,                   C     CG                                                                                                               
C.CIC~~ ~ ~   ~ nM  N  -n -n Nn CMCM                MCMC            CMCM            MCM                M             n     nCM    n
*       1        -                 - C  C-     C                  C      C      C      C      C~ C          C     C      C      C      U     0 C
3 ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ C                                 CM G                                                                                       I                 CC
;5     |  cC 4                       I            r    s^ G _   _                                                
4            X                                    C |           C      C     C      C      C      C     C      C            < I    b I C  C  C                C    C C
4          C          ,            M 
CI~ ~ ~ ~~~0                               G       I4  0  C  C  C      C      C     C      C      C      C      C     C      C             I     I      C      I            4    
4     -     4-1.                    N                                                                                    
o  CMo                     IC  C  C                                                                                                                                             .
CC          ? CC      , C                 C      C      C      C     C      C             I      C     C      C      C     C      C      C      C     C      C               -   w  C
I)      C_ CMI            Co4
04        C            .4< N        CM  N    4--    ,?
5 ~ ~          ~~~               CM    '0       C     C      C                    C     C      C      C                                           C I
U |   q                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c ?O eN
C.   I       C.      \?                                                                                                                                              o
1 C          C             C     Cq    Cw      I    n        Ic    r      Io    o.    o       I     n             C           C             C S      -1        -



ANNEX R
Table 3
SRI LANKA
TRIRD RURAL D!VELO?ElNT PROJRCT
Manner and Vavuniyat Farm Budget for Livestock Owners
- Without-Project                               With-Project
Ouentity       Unit       Total Coat 1/   Quantity         Unit      Total Cost 1/
Rs.           R.                            Rs.          Rs.
Investment
Pregnant Sinhala Hleifer 2/                 12          1,500         18,000            12          1,500        18,000
Other Cattle (bulls and young stock)2/   18             1,000         18,000            18          1,000        18,000
Equipment 3/                                 -            -              150            -             -              600
Cattle lard                                  -            -              900            -             -           1,20O
Subtotal                                                           37,050                                     37,800
Operating Costs
Veterinary Services 41                       -            -              600                                        900
Hired Labor 55/                              -                            -            135           20.0         2,700
Maintenance of Invest. 6/                    -            -               60            -             -              120
Insurance 7/                                 -            -              200            -             -             200
Subtotal                                                              Q60                                      3,920
Annual Revenues
Stock Sales I/                               -            -            4,200            -              -          4,200
Manure Sale It                               -            -            4,800            -              -          4,800
Milk Sales 10/                             150           3.5           1,315         2,650             ?.5        9,275
10,315                                     18,275
Cash Revenue                                   -            -            9,455            -              -         14,355
Milk Rome Consumption                        350            -              -             350              -            -
Mfilk Calves Consumption                     600            -              -             600              -
Total Milk Production                      1,100                           -           3,600              -           '-
Cash Return per Family Man/day                 -          26.00            -              -            39,0           -
Per Capita Income 11/       Rs                                         1,630                                      2,475
TTS$                                          77                                        118
I/  Excludes cost of family labor.
7/  Based on a 30 head (Sinha) herd of which 40% are mature cows, 20% bulls and 40% young stock.  Cattle free graze
native pasture on State land during cropping season, and paddy stubbles and state land (mainly tank beds) during
dry season. No concentrates fed and progency reared for sale at about 2 years, or kept for replacement.
3/  Assumes investment on milk cans in future with project.
T/  Assumes expenditure of Rs 20 animal/year at present and Rs 30 animal/year in future.
5/  Present assumes one family member (normally wives or children) full-time.  Future with project assumes hired
labor at a rate of 3 hours/day at Rs 20/day plus one full time family member.
6/ Assumes cattle yard at 5% and equipment at 10% per year.
7/ At 0.5% of animal value.
8/  Nerd Parameters                                    Present            Future
Cow numbers                                          12                 12
Calves born/10 years                                 96 (80%)           96 (80%)
Calves deaths/10 years                               14 (15%)           14 (15%)
Cow deaths/10 years                                   6 (5%)             6  (52)
Yearling deaths/l  years                             4 (5%)             4  (5%)
Heifer replacemnts reared/10 years (Rs/head)    18                      18
Reifers sold/10 years (Rs/head)                      21 (RS 500)        12 (Rs 1000)
Male cattle sold/10 years (Rs/head)                  39 (Rs 500)        39 (Rs 500)
Cull cows sold/10 years (10 years (Rs/head)          12 (Rs 1000)       12 (Rs 1000)
Annual milk yield (litres/cow)                       *                 300
Calf consumption (litres/year/cow)                   50                 50
Rome consumption (litres/year)                     350                 350
Milk sales (litres/year at Rs 2.50 lt for
4.32 BP)                                          150               3,650
Note: At present, milk is produced only for calves and hone consumption; only about 2 cows are being milched.
9/  At Rs 200/mature animal/year.
.1O/ At present, only 2 cows per heard are being ailched, in future it is expected that all cows with calf will be
milched. It is further assumed that 95% of the marketable surplus would be sold to the National Milk Board and 5%
directly to consumers.
11/ Assumes a family size of 5.8.



93
SRI LANKA
-                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 8
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     Table 4
Prices Used for the Financial and Economic Analysis 1/
Financial Prices              Economic Prices    2/
1984          1995           1984           1995
Apricultural Producers (Rs/Kg)
Paddy                                    3.20  3/       4.20  4/      3.85  5/        5.10  5/
Vegetables                              20.00          20.00         17.00  6/       17.00  6/
Chillies                                20.00          20.00         17.00  6/        17.00 6/
Pulses                                   9.00           9.00          7.65  W/        7.65  6/
Milk (Rst/)                              3.50           3.50          2.85  7/        2.85  7/
Mango (Rs/l)                             3.00           3.00          2.55  6/         2.556/
Forestry Products (Stumpage Value Rs/m3)
Teak                                     4730           5935          4890  8/        6120 8/
Eucalyptus                               1394           1854          1480  9/        1940  9/
Firewood                                  215            325           270  10/        375  10/
Poles                                    2030           2730          2230  1T/       2940  11/
Seeds Rs/Kgr.
Paddy                                    4.00           5.30          4.60  12/    6.10  12/
Vegetables                             100.00         100.00         85.00  6/    85.00  6/
Chillies                               100.00         100.00         85.00  6/    85.00  6/
Pulses                                   7.00           7.00          6.00  6/      6.00  6/
Seedling (plants)
Teak                                     0.30           0.30          0.30          0.30
Eucaliptus                               0.65           0.30          0.65          0.65
Mango                                    1.00           1.00          0.85           0.85
Fertilizer (Rs/Kgr) 13/
Urea                                     6.70           8.90  4/    12.70          16.90
Triple Super-Phosphate                   6.50           7.45  4/    10.95          12.55
Muriate of Potash                        5.30           5.80  4/      5.55          6.05
Labor (Rs/staff days)
Slack Period                            18.00          18.00         11.00  14/   11.00  14/
Peak Period                             22.50          22.50         19.00  15/   19.00  15/
Farm Power
Bullock Power (Rs/day)                  33.00          33.00         28.00         28.00
Tractor (Rs/hour)                       35.00          35.00         35.00         35.00
1/  Detailed calculations for farmgate prices available in project file.
2/ Ecunomic prices for internationally traded goods based on EPDCE "Commodity Price Forecast
Updating" December 21, 1982.
3/ Weighted average between GPS of Rs 57.5/bushel and average market price during harvesting
of Rs 71.5/bushel. Assumes 85X procured privately amd 152 by Paddy Marketing Board.
4/  Assuming differential between financial and border price -  would be maintained.
5/  Import based price.  For purposes of economic analysis, Sri Lanka assumed to remain a rice
importer, on the margin, during life of the project.
6/  Financial Prices converted at SCF of 0.85.
7/  Comparison of milk border prices and domestic milk prices gives an equivalent farmgate
international price of Rs 2.85 per litre of milk, based on Sri Lanka "Deiry Sector Review"
dated February 8, 1983.
8/ Export price base. Sri Lanka teak plantation is assumed similar in quality to Java teak.
Export prices of Java are only 22 lower than Burmese natural teak. Prices are based on
1981 Burmese export prices adjusted by 2% for quality differential. Prices projected to
1995 based on projected real price increase for timber in document mentioned in 2/ above.
9/ Export price base. Based,on actual average cif import price of Kampas Timber during 1981
adjusted by ratio between Timber Corporation's selling price for Eucaliptus and imported
sawnwood. Prices projected to 1995 based on projected real price increase for timber in
document mentioned in 2/ above.
10/ Import base.  Based on keroson equivalent at price of lm3 of firewood - 12 gal of keroson.
Price projected to 1995 based on projected real price increase for oil products in document
mentioned in 2/ above.
11/ Based on actual 1981 prices for 20 cm diam hud, 1 a length pole.  Prices projected to 1995
based on projected real price increase for timber in document mentioned in 2/ above.
12/ Assume to be equal to economic price of paddy plus 20X.
13/ Import basis.  Rs per nutrient.
T14/ Financial wage rate adjusted by an estimated shadow wage rate of 0.7 and SCF of 0.85.
T5./ Financial wage rate adjusted by SCF of 0.85.



SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget for Farmers on Major
and Minor Irrigation Schemes
Mannar: Major Schemes 1.2 ha 1/    Mannar: Minor Schemes 1.2 ha 1/            Vavuniya: Major Schemes 1.2 ha 2/
Future with-  Future with                 Future with-  Future with                Future with-  Future with
Present  out Project      Project         Present  out Project       Project       Present  out Project       Project
Gross Farm Income
Paddy                         4,300       5,700         17,300           4,850        6,500         11,350        4,100       5,400         14,000
Upland Crops 3/               1,800       1,800          1,8no           1,800        1,800          1,800        1,800       1,800          1 800
Total                6,100       7,500         1q,100           6,650       8,300         13,150        5,950       7,200         15,800
Operating Costs 4/               2,020      2,200          3,300           2,360        2,600          2,900        2,200       2,430          3,300
Net Farm Income               4,080       5,300         15,800           4,290        5,700         10,250        3,750       4,770         12,500
Off-Farm Income- ,5005                        0 1    0  5/  800 6/       1,500 5/    1,500 5/          80n 6/    1,S5o  5/   1,500 5/          800 6/
5,580      6,800         16,600                        7,200         11,050        5,250       6,270         13,300
Per Capita Income Rs 7/            960      1,170          2,860           1,000        1,240          1,900          905       1,080          2,290
US$              46         56            136              48           59             91           43          51            109
Family Labor                        90         90            132             103          103            118           98          98            137
Net Return to Family Labor          45          59           120              42           55             87           37          48             91
1/  Assumes 1.0 ha irrigated land and 0.2 ha upland; crop budget based on Annex 8, Table 1.  Estimated number of beneficiaries: 2,800
2/ Assumes 1.0 ha irrigated land and 0.2 ha upland; crop budget based on Annex 8, Table 2. Estimated number of beneficiaries - 2,600.
3/  Mainly pulses, assumes yield of 700 kg/ha.
4/  Includes all farm cash costs and 9% interest p.a. on working capital, based on input requirement specified in Annex 8, Table 1.                       X 
5.1/  Estimated at 75 staff-days p.a. at market wage rates.                                                                                                 X
6/  Estimated at 40 staff-days p.a. at market wage rates.
7/  Assumes a family size of 5.8.                                                                                                                           n



95
ANNEX 8
Table 6
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget for Farmers on Tubewells and Dug Wells
Mannar: Tubewells 0.6 ha 1/         Mannar and Vavuniya Dug wells 1.0 ha 2/
Future with-  Future with                  Future with-  Future witb
Present  out Project      Project          Present  out Project       Project
Gross Farm Income
Vegetables                   -                       24,120             3,900       3,900         26,900
Chillies                    -           -              5,150 3/         4,000       4,000          8,400
Pulses                      -           -               -               3,800       3,0o0          1,800
Total                -           -            29,270           11,700      11,700         37,100
Operating Cost
Cultivation Cost 4/          -          -              6,730            3,100       3,260          9,050
O&M of Pump                  -          -             3,500 5/            -           -            5,350 6/
Total                -           -            10.230            3,100       3,260         14,400
Net Farm Income             -           -             19,040            8,600       8,440        27,700
Off-Farm Income           3,000 7/   3,000              -   8/          1,000 9/   1,000 9/          -   8/
Net Family Income         3,000       3,000           19,040            9,600       9,440        22,700
Per Capita Income 10/ Rs   520          520           3,280             1.655      1,630           3,915
US$   25          25             156               79          77            186
Family Labor                                             352              250         250            430
Net Return to Family Labor                                54               34          34             64
1/ Assumes 0.4 ha irrigated land and 0.2 ha upland; crop hbudget based on Annex 8, Table 1. Estimated
number of beneficiaries: 150.
2/  Assumes 1.0 ha; crop budget based on Annex 8, vab1e 1.  Estimated number of beneficiaries: 700.
3| Assumes vegetables under rainfed cultivation. Chillies taken as representative.
4/  Includes all farm cash costs and 9X interest p.a. on working capital.  Assumes 10T labor requirement
is hired at present and 25T in future with project.
5/ Based on input requirement specified in Annex 8, Table 1. Based on pilot scheme assumes 1,400 lt/TW
p.a. of diesel, 40 lt/TW p.a. for engine oil and 15% of cost of engine investment for maintenance.
Pump would be renewed every 10 years. One tubewell would benefit 10 farmers.
6/ Assumes consumption of 2.5 lt/day of kerosene for about 100 days p.a., and 20 lt p.a. of petrol
engine and lrf of engine cost for maintenance. Pump would be renewed every 10 years. Assumes
depreciation of cost of dug well in 30 years and the pump in 10 years at 12.57 p.a.
7/ Estimated at 150 staff-days p.a. at market wage rates.
8/ Due to intensive cultivation, off-farm employment is estimated to be negligible.
9/ Estimated at 50 staff-days p.a. at market wage rates.
_O1 Assumes a family size of 5.8.



SRI LANKA
THIRD RTRAL DEVELOPM4RNT PROJECT
Farm Budget for Planting Orchards - 1.0 ha Plot 1/
Future
Without                                             Future with Project
Present   Project         1          2          3         4         5        6         7         8         9      10-50
Cross Farm Income                                        12,000    12,000    12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000
Vegetahles                      12,000    12,000       12,000    12,000    12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000
Pulses                           5,040      5,040       5,040      5,040      3,780    3,780    3,780    3,780    3,780    3,780    3,780    3,780
Mango                               -         -           -          -          -         -       1,200    1,800    3,000    4,200    6,000    9,000
GOSL Financial Assistance
for Mango Planting 21             -          -           475        175        175       175       -         -         -         -         -         -
Total                     17,040    17,040       17,515    17,215    15,955   15,955   16,980   17,580   18,780   19,980   21,780   24,780
Operating Costs
Annual Crops 3/                  2,680      2,940       2,640      2,640      2,650    2,650    2,650    2,650    2,670    2,700    2,750    2,780
Orchards 4/                        -          -           670        370        350       320       465       360       365       360       360       360
O&M  5/                          3,120        33500                3,500      3,500 3,500    3,500 3,500    3,500    3,500
Total                      5,80n      6,060       6,850      6,510      6,500    6,470    6,615    6,510    6,535    6,560    6,610    6,640
Net Farm Income                    11,240    10,980      10,705    10,705       9,455    9,485   10,365   11,070   12,245   13,420   15,170   18,140
Per Capita Income 6/   Rs           1,935     1,890       1,845      1,845      1,630    1,635    1,785    1,908    2,100    2,313    2,615    3,120
-    USA           92         90          87         87         77        77        85        91      100        110      125       148
Farm Family Labor                     228       228         264         246       222       215       214       214       214       214       214       214
Net Return to Family Lahor             49         48          40         43         43        44       48        47        57        62        71        85
1/  Assumes 1.0 ha of which 0.2 ha is irrigated with a well and cultivated with vegetables and 0.8 ha with rainfed pulses.  0.2 ha of pulses to
be planted with orchards. Based on crop budget shown in Annex 8, Tables 2 and 3. Estimated number of heneficiaries: 350.
2/  At current COSL financial assistance of Rs 2,375/ha for the first year and Rs 875/ha for second and fourth years.
3/  Include all farm cash costs and 9% interest p.a. on working capital based on input requirement specified in Annex 8, Table 2.  Assumes 95%
of labor requirement is family labor.
4/  Includes all form cash costs and 9% interest p.a. on working capital based on input requirement specified in Annex 8, Table 3.  Assumes 90%
of labor requirement is family lahor.
5/  Operation and maintenance of operating pump.  Assumes 1 litre of kerosene p.d. for 100 days and 10 litre of oil p.a. in the present and in
future without project and 1.5 lt. of kerosene p.d. for 100 days p.a.  and 15 It. of oil p.d. in the future with project.  Also, it includes
depreciation of pump in 10 years at 12.5% p.a.
6/  Assumes a family size of 5.8.



97
ANNEX 8
Table 8
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return, Relative Importance of Project
Costs, and Benefit Streams with Switching Values
% of Total
PW of Benefit or
ERR(%)   Cost Stream 1/        Switching Value 2/
10%      12%              10%        12%
I. Benefits
A. Major Irrigation Schemes    16          45       47             -  69      - 44
B. Minor Irrigation Schemes    17           5        6             - 585      -375
C. Tubewells                       14       4        4             - 787      -496
D. Dug wells                       18      13       13             - 238      -154
E. Horticulture                    21       2        1                *         *
F. Forestry                        20      21       19             - 148      -108
G. Livestock                       12      10       10            - 327       -201
Total (%)            16    100       100             -  31      - 21
(Rs M)                     (685)   (523)
II. Costs 3/
A. Major Irrigation Schemes                46       46                98        55
B. Minor Irrigation Schemes                 5        5               876       495
C. Tubewells                                5        5               862       520
D. Dug wells                               15       14               298       182
E. Horticulture                            n.s.    n.s.                *        *
F. Forestry                                 8        8               625       338
G. Livestock                               13       13               348       201
H. Other 4/                                 8        9               572       302
Total (%)                   100      100                45         26
(Rs M)                     (471)   (416)
III.Net Benefit (Rs M)                       (214)   (107)
* Estimated benefits decrease by more than 1,000%, or estimated costs
increase by more than 1,000%.
1/ The Opportunity Cost of Capital for Sri Lanka is estimated at 10%; streams
also discounted at 12% as sensitivity test.
2/ Switching value is the percentage change in the respective stream that
reduces the Net Present Worth (NPW) to zero at the specified discount rate.
3/ Includes investment, operating and direct production costs, as well as
apportioned costs for services and economic infrastructure.
4/ Includes economic overheads, e.g., groundwater and electrification
development.



*                                         U        I                        I
            F                                Mj.
F                                  
"                        I',                    ii    iI
F         I                           F    F
ii

..I.. K! --   I
d  I&                                                   .   - .                         -I
-            . L.                     I 
k            .j..                     K   i K!                          - - -    A
 -C,.
I
III           I           f
C..     *I                                               i           I             3
fI                                     I
. K
                                                     K.
d KI  J.                                                      C
                                      F I                    F           I..
F              F
ii
    li      IC



BID 16844
SRI LANKA                                                                                     . i"         <                                                                                           et 20',woro,                                      AArAS4hI         f 'rrB
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                    '- .                                                                                                                                'A6A                            pFt
PROJECT  COMPONENTS                                                                                                       '"                                                                                  rrcAA e043                                                                    <
!      -R-UFr eder rords Fo be rnlnobrlrtoedr              AGi         rrqie                            2            stt                                                                                                 i -  AC ASn bAAr3dAKniey  II6o..............................................r...  AAA3y  Jmc  AroAoer  rr tD 34  IA~    rr
M.in.,.,.,>xW.  ...,,   &                                                                                                        ' -' aAr
2 '-'--------'- Rerlroeds                           5ed yellol  IetAnrAA                                 J--..                                                                            M  0  U   L L M A   I :, T                       AA    crch eA n43Ar  08           ers                                     'n A L     I
4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~lo Mahloklyc-Piold Al, (Goroos                                                                         3:                                                                                                                                                         rrOCAttWt  c  A>.. 8/Z      Xk)40    nuArt,o    ; 2    :;
li~~~   ~~                    Drn[rrcin coprtelnul3                )      AI\l wed nelrneSo A,o         /      ih'edt                                           S <--yftff                        < "''            """'404                                            ,  .  i,          "'                                4'f
la~~~~~ rEJuKtha,,;"Fhegm 4r A   VQt benore                              noloe;tl end solonchOls/                                                                                                                                                            ''fj
22   oo aro or ula  T un  ka    !icu anoMnno r )               --        n ten  ro o _        oAnd   er're s                                                                                                                                                     A  R  R Ec O  OCl A            K          a 
2&~~~~~~~ Maund rapriy:ua                                                                         . /.-  ii       S:                        :,O  3-  t n 3m o<sJ[  r  /=x '-t                                    f~                                            ..
D"t-t opif.f                  AlkOl A-d  r.n0.1- i-As Ad
3it MArawp-Moncradrro ddy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;a          j    e,    ft.-r
DM4  ct o                                                                              .o-M-Ior   NnN  UA'i
4  Siror eAOtkAIOre-VeeLoIer                                                            '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YA4AH,  r                                              I  \    M             ~       lv          IIVT 
POA   fETINST orArnABdrEl REHABIn -InNNAA
34  Porbernyk I.- MecOrae -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              riM o .dd
'   . '                                                                                                                                                                                         ..w"  - PwpV             ""\0nt(..
Th.U [OyVA.k.I.TiCTN5) 'dd>
2  VoeprobonW-Prniyr -p p.,o                                           IA                                                 -                                                    "A,                                                               cA4U88-8.     _
14  PtkbAlen-Vrirrsry                                                    \'-n-"-             ('A.V 4                                                                                                                                                  Arr       Y                                                         SRAAK
VA (NeYd bolorrTbdRrbCT     rn                                                                                                                                                                                                          AUNIA                     -Crr
4  Vend'kicAnn-ThdrycAlyk.    rren                                                                                                     /)    'O' ' d,  [u(88
S  hoMe poArlorn- ppyrboo       -Vr1    A7A                                                                                                                                  F0,1X l 1 l/lIfN A                 \             -              r       'j         j
73  M-ofnWo-M ...yn dk .k.blo .                                                                                                               2                                                         '           IN 4 5  r '                 t3      
n  4P-di.bylor-Kokrynpu,-,I
I 5       MA -fAoM~'8Iondr.reergro4                                                      /n1
235  ScnotporrA   err k'A   8  Nt
2'Vlnrdo . -ondrorpA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GO'CLGIA                                 /{
22  Pnonoro Konk.lm    ArIre  ncdngMnor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EGOS                                
24  K.Modknd  InotoroAo
22  P royp          -Tya h.-rlenn--A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AROrECOOGI"A
33  Vek. 'ba   MrrreO ..ddwo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REG~~  
?4  N  ~ ~ ~       ~             ~             ~             ~             ~             ~~                         ~MV&AITAN                                                                                                  75 %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N0     Ac..-    1
2,~~~~~~~~~~    N d.nk -3 8 i- _                                                                          __ _ __ _ _ __        -y                                        2 0rA                                     m a ycTc                       _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ __-_ _ __ __pp_ __ _ _ __ _ _



