Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3533-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDRs 21.4 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 28, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =  SL Rs 23.0
SL Rs 1.00 = US$0.043
SRI LANKA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)              =        0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                   =        1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)                =        10,000 m2 (0.01 km2) = 2.471 acres
1 kilbgram (kg)               =        2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (mt)             =        1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOC       -    Bank of Ceylon
DAS       -    Department of Agrarian Services
CA        -    Government Agent
MPI       -    Ministry of Plan Implementation
PB        -    People½s Bank
PCC       -    Project Coordination Committee
PD        -    Project Director
RDD       -    Regional Development Division
RDPSC     -    Rural Development Projects Steering Committee
GLOSSARY
district  -    the principal administrative unit in the country:
there are 24 districts in Sri Lanka
paddy     -    unjiusked rice
tank      -    reservoir for local rainwater storage.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
Third Rural Development Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount:                  SDRs 21.4 million (US$ 23.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard.
Project -bjectives       The project- aims-to -increase-productivity,-
and Description:        employment, income and living standards in the
districts of Mannar and Vavuniya. It would
include (a) rehabilitation of irrigation tanks,
(b) forestry and horticultural development, (c)
provision of inputs and services for directly
productive sectors; and (d) development of
economic and social infrastructure.
The project faces no major risks. The risk of
implementing such a multi-component system is reduced
by the successful experiences with the decentralized
system in other similar ongoing projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Estimated Cost: 1/                                       US$ Million Equivalent
Component                                                Local   Foreign   Total
A. Directly Productive Components
Irrigation and Water Management                        5.5      1.5       7.0
Forestry and Horticultural Development                 0.6      0.2       0.8
Agriculture Inputs                                     0.2       0.1      0.3
Agriculture Credit                                     1.0       0.4      1.4
Adaptive Research and Training                         0.3       0.1      0.4
Livestock                                              0.4      0.3       0.7
Fisheries                                              0-1      0.1       0.2
Sub-total                                             8.1      2.7      10.8
B. Econotic and Social Infrastructtre
Rural Electrification                                  1.0      0.7       1.7
Rural Roads                                            2.0      0.6       2.6
Education                                              1.1      0.7       1.8
Health                                                 1.1      0.3       1.4
Rural Water Supply                                     0.2      0;0       0.2
Sub-total                                             5.4      2.3       7.7
C. Project Coordination and Manigenaent                   0.8       0.2      1-.0
Total Base Cost                                       14.3      5.2      19.5
D. Contingencies
Physical                                               1.7      0.5       2.2
Price                                                  8.1      1.4       9.5
Total Cost                                            24.1      7.1      31.2
1/ Includes taxes and duties estimated at about US$1.2 million equivalent.



- iii-
Financing Plan:                                           tJS$ Million Equivaleflt
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                                     15.9      7.1       23.0
Government                                               7-7       -         7-7
Beneficiaries                                            0.5       -         0.5
Total                                                  24.1      7.1       31.2
*      Estimated
Disbursement:        IDA FY             1984  1985  1986  1987  198C  1^°9 1990
Annual             0.5   3.5   5.0   5.0   5.0   3.5  0.5
Cumulative         0.5   4.0   9.0  14.0  19.0  22.5 23.0
Economic Rate
of Return:                16%
Staff Appraisal Report:    4377-CE, dated April 18, 1983
Map:                         IBRD 16884



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA FOR A
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in an
amount of Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 21.4 million (US$23 million equiv-
alent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Third Rural Development
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, "Economic Adjustnent in Sri Lanka:
Issues and Prospects" (Report No. 3901-CE, May 27, 1982), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on June 3, 1982. Country data are provided in Annex
I.
3.      After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy has
experienced sustained growth. This growth has been the direct result of the
economic liberalization of 1977, and the development push associated with it.
Until 1977, Sri Lanka's growth performance had been below both need and
potential. Although GDP growth in the 1960s, at 4.4% per annum, was above
the average for low income countries, it slackened sharply in the 1970-77
period to 2.9% per annum, just below the average for low income countries.
Through much of this period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, erod-
ing even these modest gains; as a-consequenc-e-,-per-capita-gross-national
income rose by a mere 0.9% per annum during these years. The slowdown in
economic growth in the 1970-77 period was attributable to a combination of
factors, including inadequiate investment, poor management of the economy, and
a policy environment not conducive to growth and investment; these factors
were compounded by poor weather in some years and a sharp rise in the cost of
imported food and petroleum.
4.      The three tree crops--tea, rubber and coconuts--which are still the
mainstay of the economy, suffered from low replanting and inadequate incen-
tives.   These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange rate system,
1/ This part is substantially the same as part I of the President's Report on
Forest Resources Development Project for Sri Lanka (Report No. P-3434-CE)
which was approved by the Executive Directors on January 18, 1983, except
that it has been up.lated on the basis of the findings of the March 1983
economic mission.



-2-
introduced in 1968, that discriminated against these crops, and by the uncer-
tainties surrounding a protracted nationalization (1972-75) of the larger
estates. After the exceptional output growth of the 1960s, rice yields and
cropping intensities declined in the 1970-77 period due to poor institutional
support.  Investment in manufacturing was also low, andi the inefficiency of
most public and private sector firms, nurtured in a highly protected environ-
ment, resulted in growth of manufacturing of 1% per annum. The only bright
spots were subsidiary food crops and industrial exports which benefited from
good incentives.
5.      An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and uncontrolled growth in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public invest-
ment. Unfavorable policies further constrained private savings. The slow
-growth rates and-changes in the struicture of output provided neither the jobs
nor the employment structure for a growing labor force. The low output
growth, the excessive capital intensity of investment, the mismatch between
the job aspirations of those with post-primary education and the jobs avail-
able to them, the post-war demographic bulge, and the rising female par-
ticipation rates contributed to a massive increase in unemployment, estimated
at over 1 million, or some 18% of the labor force in 1977.
67.     In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
By virtually all social indicators--life expectancy, literacy, infant mor-
tality, birth rate--Sri Tanka ranks significantly better than would be
expected for a country at its per capita income level. Nuitrition levels have
been adequate, and in the 1960s paralleled gains in income distribution.
These improvements in the quality of life, in particular the rise in health
standards, the spread of education and the availability of subsidized food
have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The increasing age
of marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a vigorous
family planning program, have also contributed to a sharp decline in fer-
tility. As a consequence, population growth, net of migration, has dropped
steadily, from 2.7% per annum in the 1953-63 period to 2.2% per annum in the
1963-71 period, and 1.7% per annum during 1971-81.
7.      Favorable initial conditions induced these social gains.  Compulsory
primary education was introduced as early as 1901. The food ration was
introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948, Sri Lanka
already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy. These
initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-independence period
through large expenditures on social services and the food subsidy, expendi-
tures which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in
the 1960s and early 1970s. These expenditures were traditionally financed by
capturing the surpluses of the three major tree crops, which provided the
Government with easy sources of revenue and foreign exchange. These
surpluses began to decline in the late 1960s as government policies dis-
criminated against tree crops and export unit prices weakened. As growth in
other productive sectors also decelerated in the 1970-77 period, the
budgetary resources available for social programs were squleezed between
inelastic revenues and rapid inflation. As a consequence, expenditures for
social services other than the food subsidy began to decline as a proportion
of total current expenditures and of GDP, threatening the hard-won gains in



-3-
health and education. In short, the economy could no longer generate the
resources needed to sustain the large program of welfare expenditures.
Moreover, the very size of those programs reduced the scope for policy makers
to shift resources to development.
8.      The policy changes introduced in 1977, following the election of the
United National Party, were intended to break this vicious circle. The new
Government identified its objectives as the sustained revival and resuscita-
tion of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capacity
utilization in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and
investment, and (iii) efforts to encourage exports, and inport substitution
in foodgrains. A program of policy reforms was developed in close consult-
ation with the IMF. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby
arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million.  On January 26, 1979, the
Fund's Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement to
cover the 1979-81 period. The principal aim of the reforn program was to
dismantle controls over resource allocation and initiate price adjustments
with a view to establishing more realistic relative prices. By 1980, these
goals had largely been achieved.
9.      The program of reforms comprised a number of major policy initia-
tives. The exchange rate was unified 1/ on November 16, 1977, at a
depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and allowed to float. This implied a
depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevailing prior to unifica-
tion, and 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
(FEEC) rate. The trade and payments regime was liberalized. Public sector
import monopolies were almost entirely terminated. Prior licensing of
imports was abolished for -all but a handful-of commodities. The tariff
structure was revised and simplified. Other budgetary taxes and subsidies
were adjusted to reflect the change in trade and exchange rate policies. In
particular, rice and sugar rations were confined to the poorer half of the
population, and the food subsidy was eliminated through a series of adjust-
ments in administered prices. On September 1, 1979, the Government intro-
duced a system of food and kerosene stamps for families with monthly incomes
of less than Rs 300 to replace specific subsidies and food rationing, and
to target benefits to the poor.  To help offset the adverse impact of these
changes on real incomes, public sector wages were periodically adjusted
upwards. Public corporations were asked to pass on cost increases, except
for fertilizer, petroleum, milk, and public transport, for which price
increases were initially deferred to cushion the impact on consumers. The
Government subsequently eliminated the overall subsidy on petroleum products
and made sizable adjustments in bus and train fares, electricity and fer-
tilizer prices. The burden of selected subsidies and transfers, as a conse-
quence, fell from around 10% of GDP in 1977 to around 3% by 1981. These
changes, and higher aid receipts, have helped permit a sizable increase in
capital expenditures.
1/ Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber, and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers, and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the FEEC
rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



-4-
10.     Agricultural pricing policies have changed dramatically.  The domes-
tic support price for paddy was increased by 21% in November 1977, by 25% in
November 1980, and by a further 15% in the course of 1981 following substan-
tial increases in fertilizer prices. With the related increase in flour
prices, incentives for paddy and other flour substitutes henefited. At the
same time, there occurred a large policy-induced decline in the role of the
state in domestic rice trade. Fresh coconut prices were also increased, and
in November 1981, the system of fixed and variable duties which had effec-
tively insulated the large domestic coconut market from the world market was
replaced by a sliding scale export system that allowed some linkage between
the two markets. While the unification of the exchange rate ended formal
discrimination against tree crops, high export duties, particularly on tea,
continued to-siphonnoff most of the-operating surplus for the Government.
As tea prices fell and production costs rose in 1978-79, the Government
responded to the reduced producer margins by lowering taxes on tea exports.
The Government also ended most price controls, and reformed the interest rate
and tax systems. The burden of company and personal taxation was lowered,
and the taxation system was rationalized to increase revenue elasticity;
nevertheless, the overall revenue elasticity to economic growth and domestic
inflation remains low as taxes on slowly growing tree crop exports still
average about 25% of revenues. Interest rates were also raised sharply to
encourage savings and discourage speculative imports. However, inflation
eroded these rates and in April 1980 further upward adjustments were made.
11.     These economic reforms were accompanied by a major effort to step
up public investment. The Government's capital expenditures jumped from 6%
of GDP in 1977 to_an average of 13% in 1978 and 1979, and 19% in 1980, as
government departments responded to the initial improvement in the budgetary
resource position and embarked on long overdue replacement investments and
new projects that had been shelved earlier for lack of resources. At the
same time, the Government undertook three major new programs which are to be
the lead projects in a five-year rolling public investment program. These
are: (i) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Program, by far the largest multipurpose river basin development program ever
undertaken in Sri Lanka; (ii) a 200 square mile free trade zone north of
Colombo under a newly constituted Greater Colombo Economic Commission which
has established the first of several Investment Promotion Zones near
Colombo's international airport and by end-1982 had signed agreements with 77
investors involving a total investment of US$130 million; and (iii) a massive
housing and urban renewal program with its main focus on the Colombo
metropolitan region, including the construction of a new capital complex at
Kotte, a suburb of Colombo. Budgetary expenditures on these three programs
will amount to Rs 34 billion, or 34% of projected budgetary resources over
the 1982-86 period. The underlying public investment strategy seeks to
balance the large investment requirements of the Government's high priority
programs with the urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other
sectors. The main thrust of the public sector program is to lay the founda-
tion for longer-term development by expanding social and economic infrastruc-
ture, while also providing for some short-term growth. Private fixed invest-
ment has responded well in some areas to the economic reforms, increasing
from about 7% of GDP in 1977 to 12% by 1980 and contributing to an overall
fixed investment of 31% of GDP in 1980.



-5-
12.     In response to the policy reforms and the accompanying acceleration
in investment, economic growth during 1977-82 averaged an impressive 6.3% per
annum. This growth was shared by almost all sectors of the economy, par-
ticularly construction and services. The only major exception has been the
tree crop sector. The otherwise impressive performance is due to a number of
factors including the improved availability of inputs following import
liberalization, an increased role for the private sector in distribution, and
the removal of price controls. Although there is little information avail-
able on employment, Central Bank estimates suggest that unemployment dropped
from 18% of the labor force to 15% between 1977 and 1979.
13.     Despite this strong performance, major weaknesses in economic perfor-
mance had emerged by 1980. In particular, the national savings effort had
not matched the rapid rise in investment. Gross national savings fluctuated
around 15% of GDP during the 1978-80 period, while recourse to foreign
savings to finance the higher investment rose from 4.5% of GDP in 1978 to
20.0% in 1980. Although the Government succeeded in containing the costly
consumer subsidy and transfer programs, expenditures on which declined as a
percent of GDP (para 9), relatively inelastic revenues combined with steadily
rising other recurrent expenditures and declining terms of trade resulted in
hardly any public savings over the 1978-80 period. As a result, the Govern-
ment financed its rapidly rising capital expenditures through foreign aid,
and increased domestic borrowings. Initially the Government met its domestic
financing requirements through non-expansionary borrowings from captive
financial institutions, which could mobilize increased private savings fol-
lowing the interest rate reform. However, resources raised through these
channels did not grow as rapidly as the budgetary deficit, and the Government
was increasingly forced to undertake expansionary borrowings from the Central
Bank. Between 1978 and 1979, these rose from 0.3% to 1.3% of GDP and in 1980
increased sharply to 10.7% of GDP. It also resorted to the use of foreign
commercial loans to help finance the deficit, borrowing US$50 million in
1980, and US$75 million in 1981.
14.     Inflation also increased sharply since 1977.  The exchange rate
adjustment, the other policy-induced price increases and related wage
increases, the removal of price controls, and the build-up of external
assets, which added to the money supply, contributed significantly to infla-
tionary pressures in 1978 and 1979. However, these were moderated by bumper
paddy harvests, increased capacity utilization in the economy, increased
availability of imports, and the beneficial effects of competition from
imports and in domestic distribution. Since then, rapid growth in the broad
money supply--38% in 1979 and 32% in 1980--added a sizable "built-in"
increase to the system. Together with the corrective price increases
designed to reduce budgetary subsidies and keep pace with rapid increases in
international petroleum, wheat and sugar prices, these pressures caused
inflation (as measured by the Colombo Consumer Price Index) to accelerate
from an average of 11% in 1978 and 1979, to 26% in 1980.
15.     Rapid expansion in economic activity was reflected most vividly in
the balance of payments. Import volume growth since 1978 averaged 15%.
Between 1978 and 1980, the net petroleum import bill more than tripled and
increased from 11% to 36% of non-petroleum exports, while capital goods



-6-
imports more than doubled in response to the acceleration in investment.
However, exports showed barely any volume growth as declining tree crop
export volumes offset the strong growth in garments exports. These adverse
trade volume trends were compounded by an 18% terms of trade deterioration
over the same period. The rapid growth in tourism receipts and private
remittances from abroad in this period failed to offset the deterioration on
the trade account and the current account deficit rose from US$124 million
(4.5% of GDP) in 1978 to US$798 million in 1980 (19.8% of GDP). In 1978 and
1979, rapidly rising non-monetary capital inflows due mainly to increased net
aid disbursements more than offset the current account deficit, and Sri Lanka
continued to add to its net international reserves, albeit at a declining
rate. In 1980, however, net international reserves fell by US$220 million,
and by end-1980 gross international reserves stood at US$377 million, or
equivalent to less than nine weeks of imports of goods and non-factor serv-
ices.  With the rapid drawdown in reserves, the public sector began to make a
significant use of commercial financing.
16.     The Government, realizing in early 1981 that a continuation of the
1980 trends would risk continued high inflation and unsustainable pressures
on the balance of payments, started to take corrective measures mainly in
the form of a substantial reduction in government spending. However, as a
share of GDP government revenues continued to decline further and the overall
budget deficit, which had reached the equivalent of 23% of GDP in 1980, still
averaged 17% of GDP in 1981/82; Central Bank borrowings averaged the equiv-
alent of 4.3% of GDP and Eurodollar borrowing for budget support 1.3% of GDP.
In the balance of payments, with exports remaining stagnant but imports
responding to the cut in government spending, there was a similar small
improvement as the current account deficit declined from about 20% of GDP in
1980 to 15% in 1982. Net international reserves fell by a further $60 mil-
lion during 1981/82 and by end-1982 had become negative by about $20 million.
Gross international reserves, however, boosted by large disbursements under
the IMF Extended Arrangement and Compensatory Finance Facility had increased
to $514 million, the equivalent of 12 weeks of imports of goods and
non-factor services. The stabilization measures helped reduce the rate of
inflation significantly from 26% in 1980 to 18% in 1981 and 11% in 1982,
although part of this decline was the result of the maintenance of an over-
valued exchange rate and of delays in administered price increases.
17.     In response to these developments, the Government during early 1983
took a number of additional measures to stabilize the economy. The most far
reaching of these were several new public revenue measures, especially
increases in import duties and in turnover taxes. In addition, during
February 1983 the rupee was allowed to depreciate from Rs 21.3 = US$1 at the
end of 1982 to Rs 23 = US$1, and this was accompanied by selected increases
in administered prices to reflect rising costs. Even so, the overall budget
deficit is still expected to be the equivalent of 16% of GDP. Clearly,
continued strong measures will be needed throughout the medium term to ensure
that budgetary expenditures are consistent with overall economic stability.
Sri Lanka will also have to carefully monitor balance of payments develop-
ments and take measures to accelerate exports growth to ensure longer-run
stability in the external sector.



-7-
18.     Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the GovernmentI s
development initiatives. Between 1977 and 1981-82, aid commitments tripled
to a yearly average of about $700 million. Most of the growth has come in
project aid, reflecting the Government's efforts to increase investment,
particularly in the Accelerated Mahaweli Program. Since public investment is
now overprogrammed, continued high levels of aid will depend upon donors
abilities to shift from project to non-project aid, to finance a sizable
portion of local costs, and provide supplementary financing for ongoing
projects where needed. The Government will need to maintain donor confidence
in its economic policies and management through a continued vigorous domestic
resource mobilization program and continued restraint on government expendi-
tures as the budgetary situation remains tight. Local cost financing, in
support of Sri Lanka's own resource mobilization efforts will not only
provide valuable relief- to these budgetary pressures but also supplement
foreign exchange resources needed in support of the balance of payments.
19.     External public debt outstanding and disbursed stood at US$1,961
million at the end of 1982, amounting to about 40% of GDP. However, this
is mostly long-term concessional debt. As a result, the debt service burden
is still relatively low; the debt service ratio in 1982 excluding IMF repur-
chases stood at 11.3% of exports of goods and services, up from 8% in 1981.
Recent resort to commercial finance, however, means that the debt service
ratio will rise further in the coming years. Unless early steps are taken to
further reduce the ratio of the current account deficit to GDP, Sri Lanka's
reliance on shorter maturity commercial borrowings to fill the gap between
the current account deficit and likely concessional aid flows could grow
significantly. In that case, the debt service ratio would increase quickly
and substantially.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
20.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has approved nine loans totalling US$115.6 million (net of cancella-
tions) and 33 credits totalling US$618.4 million (net of cancellations) in
support of 39 projects. 1/ About 47% of Bank Group assistance has been for
agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development), 21.5% for
power, 9.6% for transport, and the remainder for development finance company
operations, a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw materials
for industry), water supply, construction industry, telecommunications, and
small and medium industries. Eight loans and eleven credits have been fully
disbursed so far. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations as of March 31, 1983, together with notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.     IFC has an equity investment of about US$150,000 equivalent in the
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC). Two IFC lines of credit
totalling US$7.0 million have been made to the Government-owned Bank of
1/ As of March 31, 1983.



-8-
Ceylon (BOC) for term loans to medium industries. IFC has also an investment
of US$250,000 in an equipment leasing company. In FY81, IFC approved an
investment of about US$0.7 million in equity and about US$19.3 million in
loans for a new hotel project in Colombo.
22.     The Bank Group's current strategy focusses on the agricultural sec-
tor. It aims to support Government efforts to increase food production and
reduce dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment,
incomes and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. This
strategy includes projects to support basic infrastructure. The Bank Group
is also assisting the Government in strengthening the industrial sector. The
Board approved a Forest Resources Development Project on January 18, 1983.
Currently under preparation include an industrial development project, a tank
rehabilitation project, and_a-second- road-- maintenance project.
23.     The Bank Group, as of end-1981, accounted for 9.7% (IBRD, 1.8%; IDA,
7.9%) of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.3% (over 80%
IBRD) of debt service on medium and long-term debt. The projected Bank
Group's share in total existing external debt outstanding and disbursed will
increase to 17% by 1985 (with IBRD-s share declining to 1.3%). The Bank and
IDA portions of this debt service are expected to decline to about 4% by
1985.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
24.     Sri Lanka has a predominantly rural population; the proportion varies
from 50% in the Western Province in which the capital city of Colombo is
located to over 80% in the Northern Province in which Mannar and Vavuniya
districts are located. Agriculture dominates the rural sector, with 95% of
the rural population involved directly or indirectly in that activity.
Agriculture employs about 50% of the labor force and contributes about 25% of
GDP and 60% of export earnings. Much of the activity in manufacturing,
transport and the services sector also relates to either the supply of inputs
to agriculture or processing agricultural produce. Paddy dominates the field
crops and its output has increased at 3.4% per annum on average during
1978-82. Tea, rubber and coconut, dominated by plantations, have in the past
constituted the modern sector in agriculture. With land reform, the bulk of
the area under rubber and coconut and a third of the area under tea are now
cultivated by smallholders. While field crops, particularly paddy, have had
steady production increases during the past five years, tree crops have not
done well due to a combination of management inefficiencies, adverse weather
and inadequate producer incentives. Recognizing the importance of the tree
crops sector to the economy, the Government has begun to undertake urgent
rehabilitation activities and management and policy improvements. The
Government's current policy is to emphasize development of and settlement in
the dry zone (average annual rainfall of 900-1,900 mm) through the
Accelerated Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, while concomitantly balancing
these long-gestation investments with lower cost, quick-yielding projects
in areas receiving no significant benefits from the Mahaweli Program. In
addition, the Government is encouraging the growth of rural industries which



-9-
had declined in the 1950s and 1960s. Major rural industries today include
rice mills, power looms, and traditional handicrafts.
Objectives and Strategy for Future Agricultural and Rural Development
25.     The principal objectives of the Government's medium term plans for
the sector are to: (a) increase employment and income in rural areas;
(b) achieve self-sufficiency in basic food items; and (c) expand export
earnings from both traditional crops such as tea, rubber and coconut and
minor agricultural crops such as spices.
26.     The Government's strategy is to emphasize better utilization of the
existing potential through institutional and policy improvements and
rehabilitation of the production base.  Among the-policies and programs-being
given high priority in this sector are: (a) maintaining price incentives for
producers; (b) improving input supply, especially for fertilizer, pesticides,
seeds, and planting materials; (c) strengthening agricultural support serv-
ices such as extension, research, credit and marketing; (d) stepped up
programs for rehabilitation of plantations; (e) expanding irrigated area and
improving water management; and (f) improving roads and expanding elec-
trification. Agricultural pricing policies of the Government are reflected
in such measures as withdrawal of subsidies from retail prices of com-
modities, increase in domestic support price for paddy and the decline in the
role of the Government in domestic rice trade. Government policy for expan-
sion of irrigation, particularly in the dry zone, is aimed at utilization of
existing infrastructure through a systematic program of rehabilitation of
major and minor tanks, better water distribution and management and exploita-
tion of groundwater resources.
27.     In its effort to accelerate growth and improve rural living condi-
tions, the Government is encouraging decentralization of planning, monitoring
and coordination responsibilities. Guidelines and priorities are established
at the national level and technical supervision of field staff is directed
from the respective headquarters. Measures to effect this approach include:
(a) appointment of a District Minister from amongst the elected members of
the Parliament; (b) establishment of elected District Development Councils
and Village Development Councils; (c) provision of decentralized capital
budgets for districts; and (d) implementation of multi-sectoral rural
development projects in selected districts.
28.     A number of district-level rural development projects have been
launched by the Government as part of its strategy to decentralize develop-
ment planning and implementation, and to maximize local participation in the
process. These projects are multi-sectoral and relatively complex. However,
the existing, decentralized political and administrative structure in Sri
Lanka has proved effective in dealing with implementation problems frequently
associated with multi-sectoral projects. Under these projects, districts
are surveyed and studied and a development plan prepared to promote balanced
and accelerated growth. These projects emphasize quick-yielding,
labor-intensive investments aimed at better utilization of the existing
infrastructure, development potential of the districts, and use the existing
government machinery to plan and implement the same. They attempt to respond
to local developmental needs and priorities and provide much-needed balance



-10-
to capital-intensive investments such as Accelerated Mahaweli Ganga Develop-
ment Program.
Bank Group Support to Rural Development
29.     The IDA-supported Kurunegala Rural Development Project (Credit
891-CE) was the first district level rural development project undertaken by
the Government. This was followed by the Second Rural Development Project
(1079-CE) in Matale and Puttalam districts. IDA has also appraised and is
the supervising agency for a similar project in Badulla district financed by
the International Fund for Agricultural Development. In addition, rural
development projects are also underway in Matara, Hambantota and Nuwara Eliya
districts with assistance from Sweden, Norway and the Netherlands respec-
tively.  The progress-of the IDA-assisted projects so far has been satisfac-
tory. The Kurunegala Rural Development Project, which was approved by the
Board on March 29, 1979, is generally making a satisfactory progress,
although implementation of some components, most notably irrigation and
agricultural credit, has been slower than expected. Civil works for all
components except irrigation have been completed. Problems of quality con-
trol of irrigation works encountered during the initial construction stage
have been overcome and better water management practices have been success-
fully introduced. The Second Rural Development Project which was approved by
the Board on December 9, 1980, is progressing according to a revised
schedule. Progress in construction is satisfactory. After a slow start,
field works for minor export crops are gathering momentum, while other com-
ponents including livestock are generally on schedule. The quality of civil
works in rehabilitating irrigation schemes is generally satisfactory, and
better water management has been successfully introduced. Experiences
learned in implementing the ongoing rural development projects have been
incorporated into the proposed project. Given the multi-sectoral nature of
such projects, a degree of flexibility in investment planning is necessary.
Institutional arrangements set up have been effective in planning and coor-
dinating the multi-sectoral activities under the project and in providing the
desired flexibility.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
30.     The project was prepared by departments and agencies of the Govern-
ment of Sri Lanka, coordinated by the Ministry of Plan Implementation. Local
consultants financed by ILO and SIDA helped in project preparation. During
project identification and preparation, views were sought from local level
institutions. The District Ministers and the members of the Parliament
representing the two districts were involved in the project formulation. The
project was appraised in November, 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington D.C. on April 4-5, 1983. The Borrower's delegation was led by
Dr. W. Weerasooria, Secretary, Ministry of Plan Implementation. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Sri Lanka - Third Rural Development Project"
(Report No.4377-CE dated April 18, 1983), is being distributed separately to



-l-
the Executive Directors. A timetable of key events relating to the project
and special conditions of the credit are given in Annex III.
31.     The proposed project aims to raise the incomes and living standards
of the rural population of the two districts. The objective would be
achieved through high priority investments in directly productive sectors
in agriculture and complementary investments in economic and social
infrastructure. The rural population, 86% in Mannar and 81% in Vavuniya, has
low per capita income; over 50% of the population in these districts are
below the absolute poverty income level of US$110 equivalent (1981 estimate).
32.     The proposed project would cover the entire administrative districts
of Mannar and Vavuniya. Both districts are located in the northern low lands
of the country.  Population is estimated at 107,000and 96,000 for Mannar and
Vavuniya respectively. Population densities are low: 53 per square kilometer
in Mannar and 44 in Vavuniya. The districts are located in the Dry Zone with
most of the rainfall occuring during the Maha (October to January) season.
Due to the climatic characteristics, cultivation in both districts and fish-
ing activities in Mannar are confined to only one season. Both the districts
are characterized by a low percentage of cultivated land - about 9% in 1¶annar
and 12.6% in Vavuniya. Of the 21,600 ha used for cultivation in Mannar,
paddy accounts for about 59%, while perennial crops (mango, citrus, coconut,
palmyrah) account for 25%. Subsidiary food and other crops account for the
remaining area. In Vavuniya, paddy accounts for about 63% of the total
cultivated area of 27,100 ha and subsidiary food crops for 37%. Of the two
districts, land holdings in Mannar are smaller, 55% of the holdings being
less than 1.0 ha; while in Vavuniya 55% of the holdings are less than 2.0 ha.
Larger holdings are usually located in rainfed areas with low levels of
productivity in both the districts. About 90% of the holdings are owned by
the cultivators or rented from GOSL on long lease. The balance is rented
from individual owners.
Project Description
33.     The principal project thrust is to rehabilitate the production 1'ases
of agriculture in both districts and fisheries in Mannar and to improve input
supply and support services needed to increase production. These directly
productive components would be complemented by investments in transportation,
rural electrification, rural drinking water supply, health and education in
order to improve the utilization and effectiveness of the existing
facilities.
34.     The main components of the proposed project are:
(a) Irrigation and Water Management:
(i) rehabilitation of 19 major irrigation schemes (with command
area of 80 ha each or more) and about 60 minor Irrigation schemes;
(ii) introduction of improved water management practices;
(iii) installation of 15 tubewells; and (iv) groundwater exploration.



-12-
(b) Fisheries Development in 1fannar: establishing a fisheries
service center to provide services and facilities for inputs,
fish handling and repair workshop.
(c) Agricultural Support Services: (i) strengthening the capacity
of the Department of Agrarian Services (DAS) to provide inputs such
as seed and fertilizer; (ii) providing agricultuiral credit to
smallholders for the construction of open dug wells, and purchase
of bullocks, farm equipment and implements; (iii) strengthening
adaptive agricultural research and farmer training; and (iv)
strengthening animal disease control and veterinary services, and
improving livestock and milk marketing systems through establishment
of two milk chilling centers and two cattle markets.
(d) Forestry and Plantations: (i) afforestation oF about 1,400 ha
of degraded and marginal lands; (ii) distribution of seedlings
to smallholders to afforest about 700 ha along field boundaries
and on vacant land; (iii) about 100 ha of horticultural plantation
through smallholders; and (iv) expanding existing horticulture
and forestry nurseries.
(e) Ruiral Roads: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance o, about 750
kilometers of feeder and rural roads; and (ii) strengthening the
maintenance capacity of the Department of Highways.
(f) Rural Electrification: providing electricity to 13 villages in
Mannar and 10 villages in Vavuniya with high ground water
potential for irrigation and fishery expansion.
(g) Health Facilities: improving existing health care services by
providing new service buildings, staff quarters, vehicles and
equipment and training additional staff in strategically located
health centers.  This would be in line with current Government
plans to rationalize health care delivery systems by integrating
curative and preventive care through a primary healthy care
delivery system.
(h) Education: improving quality of education services through
in-service training for teachers, workshop and science equipment,
construction of classrooms and teachers' quarters and developing
vocational training facilities.
(i) Rural Water Supply: construction of about 100 community wells
in water deficient areas, giving priority to areas where the
community is willing to contribute at least 25% of labor cost
on a voluntary basis.
(j) Project Coordination and Monitoring: (i) provision of vehicles,
office equipment, additional staffing, and construction of office
buildings; and (ii) evaluation of project impact.



-13-
Organization and Implementation
35.     The organizational and management structure of the project would be
similar to the ongoing Kurunegala and Second Rural Development Projects.
The project components would be implemented by existing Government depart-
ments and agencies suitably strengthened under the project. All agencies are
well experienced in the type of work to be carried out.
36.     The Ministry of Plan Implementation (MPI) would have overall respon-
sibility for supervising and coordinating project activities. Given the
large number of components and implementing agencies, success of the project
would depend upon close monitoring and coordination of work programs of the
agencies involved and a quick resolution of problems, at both policy and
implementation levels,-as-they arise.  In- order to-achieve this, three levels-
of coordination for project activities have been provided in the project.
37.     A fulltime Project Director (PD), with experience, qualifications,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA will be appointed for each
district (Section 3.02(b), draft DCA). PD would coordinate the project
activities, working under the general supervision of the Government Agent,
the senior administrative officer in the district, and the District Minister.
38.     The Project Director-s responsibilities would include:  (i) resolving
implementation bottlenecks; (ii) assistance to agencies in organizing com-
munity labor for project components; (iii) preparation of annual work
programs and budgets in collaboration with implementing agencies; (iv)
release of funds for project activities; (v) maintenance of consolidated
project accounts and submission of claims for reimbursements; (vi) monthly
review of project progress and preparation of quarterly progress reports;
and (vii) assisting the Regional Development Division (RDD) in MPI preparing
project completion report. Each PD would be assisted by an accounting, a
planning and monitoring, and a technical unit. The annual consolidated
project account would be submitted to IDA within six months and audited
accounts within nine months after the end of each fiscal year (Section
4.01(e), draft DCA).
39.     A Project Coordination Comimittee (PCC) would be established for each
district (Section 3.02(a), draft DCA) comprising district heads of the key
implementing agencies to discuss and resolve implementation bottlenecks. PCC
would be chaired by the District Minister, with the Government Agent as Vice
Chairman and Project Director as member-secretary. The functions of PCC
would include: (i) coordinating interdepartmental activities; (ii) reviewing
the annual work program and five-year rolling programs; (iii) ensuring con-
sistency of project activities with other district development programs; (iv)
monitoring project progress; and (v) reviewing of quarterly and annual
progress reports. PCC would meet at least bimonthly.
40.     The Rural Development Projects Steering Committee (RDPSC) already
established at the national level would deal with policy questions and
implementation bottlenecks that cannot be resolved at the district or project
levels. RDPSC is chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Plan Implementation
with the Director of RDD as its member-secretary. RDPSC's functions include:
(i) ensuring consistency of project activities with national policy and



-14-
programs; and (ii) reviewing and approving annual and five-year work
programs.
41.     The project would be implemented over the five-year period 1984-88.
Supporting infrastructure for the project would be completed within the first
three years. Other activities, including rehabilitation of irrigation works,
command area development, various smallholder crop development programs, and
upgrading of rural roads and social infrastructure would be phased over the
project period in accordance with the implementation capacity of various
agencies. Plans and designs for all facilities would be in accordance with
specifications and guidelines satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.07(a), draft
DCA). These would include criteria for selection and design of rehabilita-
tion of irrigation schemes, the plans for the development of tubewell
schemes, and the siting-of rural-drinking wells.
Operation and Maintenance
42.     The responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) of all
vehicles and equipment would be with the respective department or agency.
There are adequate private repair facilities in the area for maintenance of
farm equipment to be purchased by farmers and bicycles and motorcyles to be
purchased by Government officials. The Irrigation Department would be
responsible for the O&M of major irrigation schemes down to the distributary
channel level, Responsibility for O&M of field channels (in major schemes)
and of minor schemes would rest with the benefitting farmers under supervi-
sion and advice of the Department of Agrarian Services (DAS). Farmer groups
are being strengthened by DAS to carry out such operations. Settlers will be
responsible for operating and maintaining the channel system in tubewell
development program and O&M of pumps. The maintenance and repair of the
rehabilitated feeder roads would be done by the Department of Highways.
Rural water supplies as well as rural roads would be maintained by the
Department of Local Government Services in cooperation with local
authorities. The Ceylon Electricity Board would be responsible for O&M of
rural electrification schemes. Health and education facilities would be
maintained by departments and ministries concerned. During negotiations,
assurances were received that adequate staff and funds would be made avail-
able for operation and maintenance of all facilities, particularly irriga-
tion, under all ongoing and proposed rural development projects.
Agricultural Credit
43.     The Government would, as a condition of effectiveness, enter into
subsidiary loan agreements with the People's Bank (PB) and the Bank of Ceylon
(BOC) for the agricultural credit component (Section 3.06, draft DCA). The
base cost of the agricultural credit component is estimated to be US$1.6
million equivalent. PB and BOC would make loans to project beneficiaries on
the prevailing terms for agricultural credit in Sri Lanka, which include
annual interest of 12.5% and repayment periods of between three to seven
years depending on the type of investment financed with the loan. The
Central Bank would provide a 100% refinance for the agricultural loans. The
project would strengthen the drive launched by PB and BOC to recover or
otherwise settle loans currently overdue. To implement the loan recovery
program and provide additional credit service to the farmers, the PB and BOC



-15-
each would establish an agricultural credlit unit with additional staff for
each district.
44.     The annual rate of inflation as measured on the official Colombo
consumer price index averaged 18% during the past three years, 1979-81.
Inflation declined to 5.5% during 1982; however, it is expected to rise to
about 15% during 1983 largely as a result of policy-induced adjustments in
administered prices subsequent to the devaluation of the rupee. Inflation
should begin to decline immediately thereafter, falling to about 10% by 1986.
Costs and Financing
45.     The total project cost is estimated to be US$31.2 million equivalent
with a foreign-exchange component of about US$7.1lmillion (23%). Base costs
are estimated at February 1983 prices, and include about US$1.2 million
equivalent as taxes and duties. Physical contingencies of 11% of base costs
are included. Price contingencies have been based on the following estimated
inflation rates: 15%, 13%, 12%, and 10% for domestic costs for 1983, 1984,
1985 and 1986 and thereafter respectively, and 8%, 7.5%, 7%, and 6% for 1983,
1984, 1985 and 1986 and thereafter respectively for foreign costs. The total
cost of local consultants is estimated to be US$0.2 million equivalent calcu-
lated at an average cost of about $1,250 per manmonth. The proposed IDA
credit of US$23 million equivalent would finance the full foreign exchange
cost and about US$15.9 million of local costs or about 77% of the total
project cost net of taxes and duties. Despite a number of recent measures to
raise additional resources in support of its investment program, Sri Lanka's
budgetary situation remains tight. This will take time to resolve. Local
cost financing in support of Sri Lanka's own resource mobilization efforts
will not only provide valuable relief to the current budgetary pressures but
also supplement foreign exchange resources needed in support of the balance
of payments. Benefitting farmers would provide US$0.5 million equivalent as
contribution to agricultural credit. The Government would contribute the
remaining US$7.7 million equivalent. In addition, farmers would contribute
labor to rural roads and drinking wells, and O&M of field distribution sys-
tems.
Procurement
46.     Civil Works.  Because most civil works would be labor-intensive,
relatively small, seasonal and scattered over a wide area, these would not
be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB). Therefore, civil
works would be awarded in accordlance with local competitive bidding proce-
dures acceptable to IDA or carried out by force account. Field works for
forestry plantation would be undertaken by the Forestry Department through
small contracts in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Horticul-
tural and social forestry related field works and construction of dug wells
would be undertaken by the beneficiaries using family and/or hired labor and
inputs purchased throughl commercial. channels.
47.     Equipment and Vehicles.  Equipment and vehicles with an estimated
base cost of US$2.0 million would be procured through ICR in accordance with
IDA guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported
goods or the import duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to domestic



-16-
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Small items costing less than
$15,000 per contract that cannot be bulked into packages suitable for inter-
national tendering or that are required urgently for project implementation
would be procured after receipt of quotations from at least three independent
suppliers in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Bicycles and
motorcycles would be purchased individually by departmental staff who would
be provided with medium-term loans by the Government. Aggregate expenditure
on such non-ICB procurement will not exceed US$1.0 million equivalent.  Farm
equipment and inputs under the agricultural credit component would be pur-
chased by sub-borrowers through normal commercial channels. IDA would review
procurements and processing of all contracts for civil works exceeding SLRs
1.5 million (US$65,000 equivalent) and for goods exceeding US$100,000 equiv-
alent.
Disbursements
48.     Disbursements would be made for:  (a) 100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures for equipment, vehicles, furniture and live-
stock; (b) 90% of expenditures on civil works; (c) 80% of agricultural loans
disbursed by PB and BOC for approved loans under the project; and (d) 100% of
expenditures on technical assistance and overseas training. Disbursements
for item (b) undertaken through force account or by contractors costing less
than SLRs 300,000 (US$14,000 equivalent) would be made against statements of
expendituree Disbursement for item (c) would be made against statements of
expenditure. All other disbursements would be fully documented. Consultants
have already been appointed to prepare detailed feasibility and designs for
rehabilitation of 10 major tanks. Expenditures on these consultants and on
some other preliminary start up activities incurred after January_15, 1983
would be retroactively financed subject to a maximum of US$0.5 million.
Farm Incomes and Cost Recovery
49.     The impact of the project on incomes of the beneficiaries, who would
be mostly smallholders, landless laborers and small livestock holders, would
vary according to variations in agricultural resources and activities.
Although net family income would increase by 50 to 530% depending on the
project component, income of the benefited smallholder will remain relatively
low even with the project. Per capita income of the average beneficiary
family would increase from about US$45 to US$110, compared with an absolute
poverty income level of US$110 (1981 estimate) and an average per capita
income of US$270 nationwide.
50.     The costs of project works during the project life would amount to
Rs 324 million in present value (pv) terms. The total recovery from the
beneficiaries and from Government's commercial activities would amount to Rs
167 million (pv) or 38% of the total project cost. The major part of this
recovery would be contributed by the forestry component through sales of wood
(Rs 111.3 million in pv terms). Although the Government is empowered to levy
water charges toward recovery of capital and O&M costs under the irrigation
ordinance of 1946 (as amended in 1968), these are difficult to enforce and
the charges also are low (Rs 75/ha for schemes with more than 150% cropping
intensity and Rs 50/ha for schemes with cropping intensities of 150% or less,



-17-
compared to an estimated average O&M cost of Rs 300/ha which is borne by ID).
No water charges are levied by GOSL on minor schemes, and O&M of such schemes
are left to farmers under direct supervision and advice of DAS. GOSL has
recently formed a committee to work out a reasonable basis for water charges.
A Cabinet Paper on cost recovery is expected to be completed soon stipulating
necessary amendments to the present Irrigation Ordinance. Collections of
water charges are expected to improve with amendments to the Irrigation
Ordinance. Assuming that water chages would at least be maintained at cur-
rent levels in real terms, incremental water charges due to the project are
estimated at Rs 2 million (pv). Total farmer contributions through water
charges, construction and O&M of field channels, O&M of tubewells, dugwells,
rural water supply schemes and milk collection are estimated to be Rs 37
million at present value. In addition, payments of electricity tariff are
estimated to be-Rs 19 milli-on-at-present-value. --The -Government's budgetary-
contribution to the project during project life is estimated to be Rs 269
million in present value terms, or equivalent of 38% of the total project
cost. Given the relatively low income in the project area even after project
implementation and since about 45% of project costs is directed to economic
and social infrastructure, this recovery level is considered reasonable and
similar to ongoing rural development projects. In addition, Government
contribution to agricultural credit is estimated at Rs 23 million (pv) which
would be recovered through subloan repayments.
Project Benefits and Risks
51.     The proposed project would increase agricultural production, raise
incomes and improve living standards in the predominantly rural districts of
Mannar and Vavuniya.  At full development, annual paddy production would
increase by about 10,000 metric tons (mt), or by about 150% above the future
level expected without the project. Annual mango production is estimated at
1,500 mt as a result of the horticultural development under the proposed
project. Total wood production over the project life is estimated at 620 m3,
of which about 280 m3 would be sawlogs. Milk collection will increase by
3,500 litres/day at full development.
52.     Economic and social infrastructure financed under the project would
improve transport and health facilities in rural areas; improve drinking
supply to about 2,000 rural families; provide electricity to about 3,000
households; and strengthen educational facilities in general and technical
training in particular. Disparities in living standards within the districts
and between the districts and the country as a whole would diminish.
53.     The economic rate of return of the project is estimated to be 16%
for both districts. The rates for individual components range from 23% for
horticulture to 12% for livestock. Sensitivity tests indicate that the
project would still remain economically viable in the unlikely event of a 45%
increase in total project costs, or a 30% decrease in overall incremental
benefits.
54.     The proposed project includes many components which would be imple-
mented, operated and maintained by a number of Government agencies, depart-
ments and ministries. There are inherent risks in such a multi-sector



-IS-
project as it touches upon actions in politically sensitive and institution-
ally demanding areas and requires close coordination among different
implemeniting agencies. In Sri Lanka, such projects are under implementation
in several districts.  The organizational structure for implementing the
proposed project will be very similar to such structures already successfully
established in other districts. Therefore, the aforementioned organizational
risk in the proposed project is minimal.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Sociali-st Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.     Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of credit effectiveness would be the execution of
subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and PB and BOC (para 43).
57.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
58.     I recommend that the Fxecutive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 28, 1983



-19-                                      Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNEET
SRI LANKA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV RAGES
ARA    OUSAN  SQ.M.)                                                                      -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TTAL              65.6                                            MOST RECENT      LOWICM               MIDDLE INCOME,
AGRICULTURAL       25.8                   1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        60.0        100.0            270.0             261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           109.6        135.9            135.4             448.7                  701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        9889.0      12514.0          14675.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       17.9         21.9             26.6              17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                    21.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                      31.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                               2070
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. RM.                            150.7        190.7            220.0             158.1                  255.4
PER SQ. XM. AGRICULTURAL LARD          307.1        517.5            559.4             355.9                 1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               42.1         41.9             36.3              36.8                   39.9
15-64 YRS.                               54.3         54.5             59.6              59.7                   56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                         3.6          3.6              4.2               3.5                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.5          2.4              1.6               2.0                    2.3
URBAN                                    4.7          4.3              3.6               3.3                    3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           35.7         30.1             27.6              29.3                   31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            9.2          6.9              7.3              11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    2.6          2.2              1.8               2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..         55.3            113.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..          8.2             41.07-            19.3                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)                93.0        103.0            122.0             108.1                  115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        102.0        108.3             96.7/d            97.3                  106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                46.0         47.1             43.371            56.9                   54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             13.1         11.8              7.571            20.0                   13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            7.1          5.1              3.2              10.9                    6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          62.0         63.6             65.7              57.8                   59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 70.6         58.5             44.2              89.1                   63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..         21.0             20.0/c            32.9                   32.0
URBAN                                     ..         46.0             45.07o            70.7                   51.9
RURAL                                     *-         14.0             13.071            22.2                   20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     '-         64.0             59.0/e            18.1                   37.7
URBAN                                     ..         76.0             68.07e            72.7                   65.7
RURAL                                     ..         61.0             55.0o1             4.7                   24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                4493.0       5958.5           6700.1            3297.8                 8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           4169.0/f    2258.0            2039.3           14929.3                 4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  318.6        331.5            340.7            1100.4                 1047.5
URBAN                                  100.9/f      216.0               ..             301.3                  651.6
RURAL                                 1063.871      563.4               ..            5815.7                 2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..         54.4             51.3/g              ..                   27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    5.4/h        5.8
URBAN                                    6. 3h        6.3
RURAL                                    5. 2/h       5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    2.0/h        2.5
URBAN                                    2. 1/h       2.7
RURAL                                    2. 0Th       2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    7.5/h        9.0
URBAN                                   35.97ii      34.5
RURAL                                    2.371;       3.0



-20-                                               Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      95.0         99.0            98.0               97.4                    96.2
MALE                     100.0        104.0              ..              101.0                    99.8
FEMALE                    90.0         94.0              ..               87.8                    92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      27.0         47.0            53.0               53.0                   37.6
MALE                      38.0         46.0            65.0               63.8                    41.1
FEMALE                    16.0         48.0            41.0               41.3                    34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)          ..          0.4             0.4/c              1.7                    20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 31.0         16.4            32.2               37.7                    35.5
SECONDARY                                 ..           ..              ..               20.2                    25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             75.0 /f      77.6            85.0               52.1                    73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               8.4          7.0             6.8/c              1.5                     9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              35.8         40.0            48.5               35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                ..           ..              ..                3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       36.0         48.9              ..               16.4                    53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        3.0/i        7.8             4.8                3.6                     2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)           3390.8       4186.9          5066.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        22.6         23.7            24.7               29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   56.0         55.0            54.0               70.0                   52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      14.0         14.0            14.0               15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     34.3         33.5            34.5               40.0                    38.5
MALE                                      50.8         49.1            50.9               51.8                    50.5
FEMALE                                    16.2         16.5            17.4               23.8                   26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.3          1.4             1.2                1.0                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         26.4/h       18.2            18.6/
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        52.1717      43.4            42.87j
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          4.57h        7.5             7.37*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         13.77h       19.2            19.3/-
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (IUS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..              ..              133.8                   194.7
RURAL                                     ..           ..              ..              111.5                  155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..             ..                 ..                   178.2
RURAL                                     ..           ..             ..                 ..                   164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..           ..              ..               43.8                   24.4
RURAL                                     ..           ..              ..               51.7                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritbmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among, the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1976;  /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g 1973; /h 1963; /i 1958.
May, 1982



-21-                                                                                   Annex I
DFMT OPSO  SOCIAL InDICATORS                                                                Page    3
botee; ..A1t-agh the date ore doae footnouce   neneall  judged the nest auhrtt±ecdrlise   tshuda     be noted chat  hy nay oa  ho Itter-
ntoaly catra-shi  bocauc  of toe lock of etondordiotd dafintlto     Ian  concept  ace..d by dttorone conresi    lotn   th   aa    he date aye, none-
theleso, aneici to docrib  order.. of ignitad. indicate treds, and ohar-ste  c--tai  san  dIff.rt,.                      oeenattts
The rofrecograp  era (1) the .en  country groop af the eatlect cocty and (2) a coctr                    -ou  with   -h' eIe highr  neragaice II      ta-  the Cutry gron
a) the sah.Iac  country  Ittep   for     'th locat    oil Eaparners" gro-ner  '0- Addl. inon  North Af,ios and )tddlo fat" L.onc  hecane  of aote
sacia-cuncrel a finitinl.  On te reytreco cron  dat   t         .serne  r  populaIon  -eightedactei    oofr- n..h todicao  an. .d ah-m  only uten
eajoeny ofthe cantnis in    drop has data fortatIdiao.    111           Mi cntg  ofoaits  ot   h  ldcir   doynd   c  ots ace -ilality or data
andIs oaZ.t uaifcru    i, c ontnma.  e  uece  in reI-lbatg anreof can Lrdisconto ano.ther.  Ths    sae  areony oef.  In csanln  the  -alu  of
on  I        Idcaa  at   rieaa  -itIo  tr    d r I....c gr-cpe
A611lftasu  ocks.)                                                                               Poultinra          cita  Sd-1otl,ubn,ad  uo  - ?oyciatc    Oc-al.
-Total - Total  .urfac- ae  corii            .ad tos  ad ila1d ceter; 1979 data.                   _rb.an_       ua)  iio   by  hIs       ..r nopctin otrofhoia  beds
E.toiual-ianiaa  of aocuora   ye   od  -ep-ceily or prraeaty                             accoblad   to publIc  .da p,0-cm   cmoalcd nysialu-d hoopioci andr-
furorne . Paates  eattod hicbt  adano or to lie  ela1979 duto.                                 hahlttc  centers.    ust.ptals or  ansacbetnhan   pere_notlyttaIoId
by at leas't ona phyaliclon  .. beel tehett  yrootdicj erincuraily coato
GNP PEt CAPITA (15)   GNCP Per  .apit. soiso            a tt-orrr  taoks  prio.s,..al-             dial care are non  niu.dd.  coreIh-nttal., ho-ene. lnnlda  health
ouleta  by sa cnnersia  _etbd as dorid henk Am   (Ih7g-0 basiol. 1962.                    and sodcacener  nnt pIreeretnl  onaffed b0 a poysician  (hot by 
190,an  199  daa.ed Ice   ..etta.t  nuse  ed.ie  et)oion offer L.-retnootuom-
dation ead pronide a leiteld range. of emocaiac t.iiis.  Foonatta
11110! ClONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - cAbb,a  conuet Ionotcorotl  nsgy(ne                               tia  otrycea   ura    onti ri.c.do  WHO.e yr Inc pa1/go-o  hoepLta"I
cod lignit. otitolon. naturu  toe and  yano-, -.rltor nodcootberey  nc-:        ad rrl   tylae  loca  or r-1 h  -occta   ond  odico1 und taro-o
sniriyt i IilgaaeoIolsu lntptcpt;19.19701. an  1979                                              cotn.bnlbdhoep"tloay  rlur  only  coder" tota.
data.                                                                                                      P-itua   e  fHarpulI ted - rTona  tob.,or cO  daiction  conuncor
hoe.npicle. dioaby the u.           no   ea
POPULATIOt MMO VITAL STATISTICS
TaaMtultu.nd-Tear ~tcins-de) - do of JudY 1; 19950. 1970. and 1989                 louiddft
cohn Poaato    per-o    of toal) - aceco ofo tet  -c ora  ypulatloo;                             A    . boawdol  coala  of, a  rn   fIdcdaehe   hr   licqc
aiffl-e-  deftitinn   of urban a-oc  ny affec  -uporobi1lty of data                            and their scm  nel., A boerder or lodeet eay orny Iot to InluIded  l
aeocutnhee; 1960. 1970  . ad 1980 data.                                                    Ih.  -oashald for  -natltiralpuye.
I..alaicnin near2000 - Curren  popuaica.  pracinaa   boe..d an 1980                           bto   aenprnneto  Ilcr.0   ndrua  dray ldcoen101
total Patud-tio. hy ago ad eon  "u  their sarnllty usa fertilItY rates.                       nel       ;:.g . teotinsly.  O-elllngeorld    n_-entt            utrnad
PIoecic  Parane.sr  fI or  ttiitayItaan.neplee of three losl   eseouatrid part.
icc  lfe eoetnya  birth IIncr.esiag nith ccnyayrcyn   na                                   reooIettlo(otn  of Onll ac-.cuI o-tan. co,d royal -
lesi  and Intal  lIfe sepctnoyenbliatg at 77.5 years.  The paPa-                          Cnettoldni-11ln0nnthbnIetoiciuy fnI lIrto   quattar  00P                 .Ig
saea Ft _ frIIt  rate a- hen  titan  Isn. sesI       lgdeoIc  ic                      of t_ta. urban  and rura  da-llingersaPerticy.
fah  -oatr  Ie theaaacodoeo  these  ids coadncoda  of  -troliy                       EDCATICfON
and fertity nrede for  roJotiatprpea                                                    Ad Icatd ctolen   tto
doatiocry noadardo-loaaociouac   popoluic  rnI rr cet noI go-an   ioinc                Prc_ry acho    -  -orad  -eit and fouao-Gr... tonal, ouo  -od Icocl
the oIllt rena h toda  to nan da.,h nte, osd alec nh.ageeri--er- n_oro-ne-  of all  oes at the yrey  Intel ua.
-eIns.  ntat.a  In ahIened only eftar f-ntucy Ia... declite so                                 oruay eha-o   ycoaio;nraiy  ;ncldu chuldor  60 -Il
tha  replac-et land  of ant ttnrprodarttn rant. he on . eah gec.rntuoheer  bit adjc-otd fnr diffn-ot lottthucf yrto-yrodo..in;
of no-  rploea itanlf   -toty    Tho cetlnory populatlouoiueo                                  cottieoth cninnrea  nuo.an ion  o            ro  an.  y ntcaad 130 lorto-
ettected on the basIn ofthe  rjno   crctrtieof the pouano                                      mocb  soe pupila  mnlno   bo  ito cnf ""'       It. ca  uchoo.   gr..
hethe psar 2000. ae  the I-a-otf deciie  of f-olilnly onto rtrp ae                         S.e nrdinn ....I - totl, mai tod irnalr - Cce-ocy-oab-n;aoco-day
_Ient 1 I.1                                                                                    nutIoorq.t-ru   Ina  boo.f-  ynur- ot......od ye--or
Ynorna-thenory porulattna is reocbad - The ynao  h-n Itttnoy   orla pprn-o, :idee   enerl.notca,rnnhetami   lsorny   fon yoyiln
airo ail  b  Ienab.                                                                             toly o   2n  17   ansof  ga            orInndroatoy     oeynoal
FPopultion D-ait,                                                                                  -ncldn
P-r no. k.. - Kid-otnet  popoai   e  oquaretilonete  (120 hecoanenloc                        v--uio_1  _nulao  (rrtnto  acoua_                                 .........lttloooo
tot1 area; 1960. 1870 and 19)9 data.                                                        lrcnccncl  iden                    ro       yrogra-  ouch operat  indeen-
Per,n 10. aI Iculooral lend - CuW.oad an  b.no  for agr1cult-ue.l ad                          onloe    eacen   d  oodc   nnonoe
nrulatcoo tan  ttrat=   (aerr.et..     Choldran 10-CAiur4          mri-an(15-                    pIi-er  an. orodr  lIreIa dlnidad by  cleno  rah.yI  Oh.
66Y year), aid retired (65 yeac  sad o-e) Ia ornen   fndya   oo                                 orstdn   nan
La,toao; 1960. 19)0. and 1880 date.                                                          cdnlt linerec~y rt   rret  -dI aitsuc  lie(bin c  rod an  uine)
ro;talahe  Arneth tn        ret  - total -  nn-a  er..hs ratna of cotn1 sid-                     asyrotnao                1ne  oditpopulation ocod IS year  ad one.
ran  P.;"aia  for 190-60. 1907. ad 1970-60.
rnrnlaiut- llroon  nate leattanti  -br -    --Ian  arcnh rites of orbac 9po-                CONOSCOOTIOC
laioafo _95-O.1h-0an  19)0-0.                                                         Paaoe oO  frooan  y...ctOn                     P-...ngt  Ooocoi   1c
Crude "tre  aeIrreoa-o) - o cI lin  tlctis yen  htoa...d of auya"antnn    oetaaet Ornan  nnldnccotca    anaa
Ptpnit iou;1990. 19). anId l9gc deta.                                                         sI- ilay     hecic le.
Cr,a  tocIh Race (yet thousan) -   -Iua  deathe po9- e o   of cid-rerco.    nnior  (rrnoad o-yoianuo    -11 typoto  cccr  for r-oio
popul_tiat; 1990. 19)0  cc   sodn.hndnto    aaa  ychlR    rtnsoofyoltc;                                                                                           uden-
Croea 8eprndulob 9cam   - dmAga. nafl   of da-ghonc, aon-  n     hear on                         lOcrn..edre-drr 1In  onrh            d On yo-r  che  raniorra-o  cy. radio
her annua  rprod-cio1 period if athc.         teto  rno  ng-m ific ft-                         I'lala " n tofstdaaoryn    y-ero ny cot bn -o9artblunr
ntilty reis; .sualy ftn-ynet arnr... ondicg In 1960, 19)0. and 1999.                           01st c           -rmieeniahed lIIon oat
yanolt PIiania-Acrtr,ono   .taea l - .onuL oute  of ur-p..r                                    TVtleenesle  theua a nnrlaion)-    recee  for .rn.ro.  to.
of birth-co.otrni dvnites  nde  nupoeo   ninlf ly PlnIng. .$pr-gnee.                           cec..rod puaiic partcnn    ouain   tidm   an I'ieeoT                      or
PoLIOn PlnIcot - Uer.e.       cn   f  ara  onenil -11           - Petetoe  f  art.  -t-ati..sad It per  nttreItrto   of TV netoaa   itL eti-t.
meat: frhild-b-eree go p115-4  yeats) otab  -a.inhcuIr- enc-to-esn -e Cionl-eion (nor thou...   no, laton    S-chr  the urae  O-
al Iartd enn   ese  age  roy                                                              culariun nI  daily  'l ntrI  Intcrere         dpt.     finodusoyt intcai
ine   fPn   rd-rhn  n                     Gaia(997-6) - Inden of pot capita at-l     Cnt  ena  sodnnr CCanita ror- fer-  Sated oc the nbi,- of
io oe  ieleofa   erhse   londinen               torer   ". proy   nde - leg   dcgatat         ond meti -.nita.
ieatesd of -M.a) oblbor  odd'. ood n-erh   _,trto.t  (e.g. coil- neai
tan urn snolded).  dggnegato orod-ntaLn of e.-h natr..        ia haon-d on                LABOR FRCEf
t     _ino Scerg  pend-c  pr ice atgbtn; 1961465. 19)0. cad 1990 dete.Tfa Oa -n -ore  (theanandef - lontitolly actine nn--ea  loiuding
Pe  aineg eael  ofclrie  IR _eanto  roIrnetf-Cqin.to                                             ru    oread  n lydht eonlditg  -oeent   td-nc. ec
P50 da.   calhi   uple -oprIUe duanenhe yrnddtian    norts lose                               non  .o.arbin;ti 9    17  aid 180 data.
neot ndi chages It stu.  Set eppline . soud  aane  fedsnd s,Pal   orcn) - Pal  lahar to.. .c . oe    ..rt.nta    of total  labor for-
aeeiausdin fond proesing  end ino..e he ditiahn                eur-drclao(on )-lb-r lar  i   aIn.roItY, huringan
-e'tonerto      -tstd by P6O hbsod o   hshlgc    ede for no-i oh                                 iabig 0  ponn ognf tcl labor force; 1960. 190  nd180daI
cony and health oneaddeLog nrreeelt oaae  hndp eSlcc., ago                                    h.d.toy (aron-) -   bhe  f-rc- In eAig  oteodn    -auacuing
adnndi-orhaibun of ppruiatio. and ilnn           10 perrent fnr use-  at                    and alectriity.  ee   togsaftrtnaen  totel lahc  furre
hoa-held i1ne; 1961-dy. 1870 ad 187) Uct.                                                       190  197an  1980 date
Pe    .Fittnlotrotin   aseperday) -                   -rosi  cnta  of p-r caPita                             ..ti...in.Rt  lnst)- coc..i.   I, sa   tmo-Poricpationor
an aply  f fon  Pee RY.  o, euppl  nffodIhe defined  a aton.  ie-                           -iclnty eaten nro npnqe d as total  ea_e  and i l  labor f.r.ya
qureinfor al   oo  resntble           by USDA p-nrido forsan.pornae   f  oa.ei  aid inte. eayulaIn o.f all  gnoreenioy
nitoesce  of ho goe  of total prtetin nor day an  20 et_  of aelel and                        1990, 1970  and 1980 data.  The.. art hose.d on ILO   p-etitipatlan   ate
Ponda  protein, of ebith 10 grate sbaid he  eiaei p-atei.  Theme stead-                       relnin   an-m   nIItratteo   th   opltot n  loe  t   teend.  A
irde ar  lonertbon. toea of70 gin   of tona  protati cr4 23 grat  of                  fee seittsr  fot- ant.Ionltots
anneal  ateti _e    anrag  fo  the    d. Plprnp.sod by PA0 Li the Third                    foutuc Dprndeoy RatIo - Ratio of papelation   nder 10 ad 65 aid ca
Foodrud S-rny; 1916040I.919)  cad19)7 dota.. In"tao l-                                                      n I  nrie
Per capia orot .c  IupF if ronandea ad nba. - Protnin euPppy af food de-
,io.d true onieno and pun  heo           - pe  ny; iL61-h5. 19)0 in  919)  dato.         lhCOttD OOfluiTOt
Child )aan  1-4) mach cota(.r nho"e= dp) - Aaoaei desebP pa  ohoannd In                       rrateorioat  lanc    (both In  ..ah and cked)   Rano.ined byrcho
ugn grou.P 1~ ---yar. to rhilftrsto e  hin age Stoup, f. upns  desolring cn-                  Spcnt.  ihet   20 pret  ytotet 10 yetet,ad p-orne  40 pnrnrn
cIns- data deri-d fine life nobleal 1960. 19)0 and 1980 data.                                 n  huno_nads.
910170l                                                                                       P00ERTY TA1G10 GiOtPS
at limb; 1960. 1970 and 1900 dato.                                               an of  d Ifo.Id be lnnpte    iih cnidarablncou--..
luan Ltnilty Rat leor ulconad) -   -uan  On..h. of iclanca uunoeyr                      ttiEced' Ahnlteotrty Inotel.ne  tIton  capta  -co     ad  -cel 
of usee  th-.een  linehrto  1990, 1970 tad 190date UesuunoPinryItn   on   0ce   cnslnlSlnoc      iln
icoonoa Saf cate  bnerant o  cortacloo   -  orl,ons and r-al-  Su-                   -urtl.Ionly adoq-  do., pIcaeoncc  oo-fodr                 Iale .nr          IIou
bsr of ynnpin   ocl.uran  an   orl   ith reaoul  ac... no sat a. Iftdaln
aeersaethan  tote prt...cted b-reanlen  nylo.ad .a.tr.            nel   a               O          to r lacn  poeny I-ecos  lnns   ...a hceibid of an.roin per capita
peonnaas0 o     therosnte  pouain .                 Iaurtb   ara   pthlic                   poyoan .iP"n               . .et .tr.  irbon icol In denoed  fran the mIn..I
yaort ion ttn    Is located non  -n  than 200  econ  feot a heusa n-y                        odoi bd)uetes         hgot  igy  cot of lining he  ebutaras
conidondaI  bonic  nitbin  r--nnble ant..a of that h..s.   In rural or...                   tonandrclttndmeOa ItLPnrt  nn .-Iul)yr )-c0
-e1oai   n es  el  LIgy th-etb rhso-enfn or  eaer  of sh   oohl                     adPnl-Per              fpytaln)ro  end rural) o.bt.r  naln
do otbon  ta spenddietpt   uat -Dr  of the tar  in fteeting the                                .-
oefnaged  thair tepetite  popula-ians.  Rac,.t. atep.al nay totluda
the u.lnaead dinpyoch. noa  or ohione  scanse   d  sne    oe
PnnaiLnie ear PhpmhiiAn - Ptpclatla   djinded by  -tatt of Pn...tieing phrei-                                                       innecadi SurmI Dat- inao
che-  qulitf te  frt- a -dicel nho,ba  at  niversty Is.-I.                                                                   Icnnic oulysie aed  rtcln Oprat
Penc1iaso  toe gar-ica P-on  -PsacindInidd  hy nueb.I of yrattisioe                                                                              Say199
mae  ndgei  graduate Iuno. assient nun., nrontini nurea  und



-22-                             ANNEX I
Page 4
SRI LANKA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OUTPUT IN 1982 BY SECTOR                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%; coonstant prices)
Value Added
$ Million    %                 197077        1977-82         1970'82
Agriculture           1,209      27.1                 2.0             4.0           2.9
Industry a/           1,233      27.7                 2.1             6.9           4.1
Services              2,017      45.2                 3.7             7.1           5.1
Total b/          4,459    100.0                  2.9             6.3           4.3
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982
US$ Million          X
GDP at Market Prices                                 4,812           100.0
Investment                                           1,465            30.4
Gross National Savings                                 727            15.1
Current Account Deficit                                738            15.3
Exports of Goods and NFS                             1,364            28.3
Imports of Goods and NFS                             2,248            46.7
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs Million)       % of GDP at-Market Prices
1982          1975    1980    1981    1982
Current Receipts c/                  16,543         17.2    19.9    17.9    16.5
Current Expenditures d/              18,979         18.3    23.7    19.7    18.9
Current Surplus                     -2,436          -1.1    -3.8    -1.8    -2.4
Capital Expenditures e/             15,620           7.3    19.3    13.9    15.6
External Assistance                  9,845           3.2     9.2      8.9      9.8
a/ Manufacturing, mining, construction, and utilities.
b/ GDP at factor cost.
c/ Includes capital revenue.
d/ Includes advance accounts.
e/ Includes net lending.
April 14, 1983



-23-
ANNEX I
Page 5
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LANKA
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                     1970       1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981      1982
(end of period)                                                      -R  Milion)-
Money and Quasi Money                        3,115      6,321     8,717      10,892    15,058    19,860    24,447   30,510
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 2,856      4,323     4,659       4,226      6,267    13,095    17,277   21,828
Bank Credit to Private Sector                1,320      2,929     4,116       6,449      8,705    12,709    16,690   20,570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             22.8       20.9       23.9      25.5        28.7       29.9       28.8     30.5
General Price Index (1970=100)               100.0      145.2     147.0      164.8       182.6      230.2     271.6    301.1
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                           +5.9       +1.2      +1.2      +12.1       +10.8      +26.1     +18.0    +10.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 +10.4     +13.0       +7.7       -9.3       +48.3    +109.0      +31.9    +26.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 +8.6     +22.6      +40.5   - +56.7        +35.0     +46.0      +31.3    +23.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1982)
1980     1981      1982                                            $ Million         7
(US$ Mil-lion)
Tea                               305          29.5
Exports of Goods, NFS                  1,297    1,346    1,364               Rubber                             112          10.9
Imports of Goods, NFS                  2,205    2,055    2,248               Coconut Products                    72           7.0
Resource Gap (deficit = -)              -908      -709      -884
All Other Commodities             543          52.6
Interest Payments (net)                   -12      -82       -85
Workers' Remittances                        -        -         -                    TOTAL                     1,032         100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)              -14        -7       -10
Net Transfers                             136      203       249
Balance on Current Account              -798      -595      -730           EXTERNAL DEBT ($ Million) a/
Direct Foreign Investment                  43       49        55                                           December   December b;
Net MALT Loans                           247       330       458                                              1981        1982
Disbursements                          309       442       574
Amortization                            62        92       116             Total Outstanding              3,083       3,695
Capital Grants                            138      162       162
Other Capital (net)                      157        21        28             Total Outstanding
Change in Reserves (+ = increase)       -220       -33       -27               and Disbursed                1,594       1,961
Gross Reserves (end-year)                 377      451       514
Net Reserves (end-year)                    38        5       -22
DEBT SERVICE RATIO c/ (X)          8.0        11.3
Crude Oil and Petroleum Products
Imports                                489       448      590
Exports                                 169      175       158           IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1983 (USs Million)
IBRD     IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbursed              31.5    186.9
End 1978                End 1981                                             Undisbursed                            37.9    429.2
US$1.00 = Rs 15.51      US$1.00 - Rs 20.55
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.06      Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.05-                                  Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                         69.4    616.1
End 1979                End 1982
US$1.00 = Rs 15.45      US$1.00 - Rs 21,32
Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.06      Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.05
End 1980
US$1.00 - Rs 18.00
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.06
a/ Repayable in foreign currencies and with a maturity over one year.
b/ Preliminary estimate.
c/ Ratio of debt service (excluding interest on short-term capital and IMF repurchases, but
including IMF interest charges) to exports of goods and services.



-24-                           ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31; 1983)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                          Amount (net of
Credit                                                           cancellations)
No.    Year  Borrower         Purpose                      Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and eleven credits fully disbursed              72.9   82.7
666   1976  Sri Lanka  Tank Irrigation Modernization               5.0       1.3
701   1977  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development II              19.0      11.7
709   1977  Sri Lanka  Water Supply                                9.2        .2
818   1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)             21.0      12.7
891   1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development               20.0      12.9
900   1979  Sri Lanka  Road Maintenance                           16.5      10.1
931   1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                       15.5      13.1
942   1979  Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries                16.0       4.9
979   1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance         3.0       1.6
994   1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                   53.0      32.5
1017   1980  Sri Lanka  Rubber Rehabilitation                      16.0      15.1
1020   1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                         30.0      30.0
1041   1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                        30.0      26.4
1048   1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                19.5      15.2
1079/b 1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                   33.5      23.1
1130/b 1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry Project              13.5       8.4
116O7% 1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation          30.0      24.3
1166/b 1981  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development Project         90.0      59.8
11827- 1982  Sri Lanka  SMI II                                     30.0      28.4
1210/b 1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                              36.0      31.4
124076 1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification Project                 20.0      19.2
2187   1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth Power                        42.7     -       37.9
1317/b 1983  Sri Lanka  Forestry I                                  9.0      9.0
Total,                                                     115.6  618.4    429.2
of which has been repaid                                  46.2    2.3
Total now outstanding                                       69.4  6
Amount sold,                              3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                           69.4  616.1
Undisbursed                                                                 429.2
t=== = 
/a  Prior to exchange adjustments.
7- IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in US-dollars
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in the President Reports and
disbursed amounts shown in US-dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange
for the SDR on March 31, 1983.



-25-                           ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$Million)
Year            Obligor               Type of Business      Loan  Equity  Total
1970      Pearl Textile               Textiles               2.50   0.75    3.25
1977/80   The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon   Development Banking         -   0.15    0.15
1978/81   Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking   7.00        -    7.00
1979      Cyntex                      Textiles               3.15   0.54    3.69
1979      Mikechris Industries        Polypropylene Bag      0.89   0.10    0.99
1980      LOLC                        Leasing                   -   0.25    0.25
1981      Taj Lanka Hotels                                  19.30    .70   20.00
Total Gross Commitments                        32.84   2.49   35.33
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, and Sales                  15.55    :75   16.30
Total Commitments now Held by IFC             T7_2   i17    T l.0
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1983 I/
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date:  April 12, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now entering its final year. Despite earlier local
budget constraints, implementation progress has generally been satisfactory.
Construction on three of the five tanks has been completed and the
rehabilitation works, with some exceptions, are good quality. Considerable
work remains to be done and careful scheduling of activities will be
required to complete the project in 1983. Actual project expenditures
amounted to Rs 247 million through end-1982, leaving a balance of Rs 42.5
million available for 1983.  It is estimated that savings will amount to
about Rs 9.0 million at project completion, and there may be a need to
extend the disbursement period beyond end-1983 to accommodate remaining
expenditures.
I/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balance evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million of
June 27, 1977; Effective Datei Decetnber 29, 1977; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1983
Project implementation is nearing completion, resulting in a
well-developed agricultural area with promise for sustained, high agricultural
production. Some aspects of the project, such as quality of work and water
management need improvement which otherwise may impair project performance.
Also, a substantial amount of work-yet r-emains -to- be-done--to complete/rectify
and calibrate water measurement and control structures essential for effective
water management.
Cr. No'. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of June 30, 1977;
Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project has made good progress in completing the procurement of
equipment and materials and in advancing the construction of civil works. The
IDA Credit and the IDA-administered CIDA Credit are almost entirely disbursed.
Financial Management of the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) has
improved with WDB now producing the financial information required for manage-
ment. WDB's progress in implementing consumer metering is now satisfactory as
a result of steps taken to accelerate the&program; WDB is now experiencing the
difficulties normally expected to accompany the introduction of consumer bill-
ing and collection; measures are being taken to alleviate the difficulties.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; U$21.0 million of
July 1.2, 1978; Effective Date:  December 28, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Project progress is close to target for field work and the standard
of field operations is high. New factory equipment is improving tea quality
and reducing cost of production. Housing has fallen behind schedule because
of escalating costs but the introduction of new designs and materials has
increased building momentum. The smallholder component has lagged behind
estate development because of weak smallholder extension; this position is
slowly improving. GOSL is requesting one-year credit extension in the expecta-
tion of achieving most project targets as per appraisal.
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million of
April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project is entering its fifth year, and is generally making
satsifactory progress, although implementation of some components, most
notably irrigation, has been slower than expected. Full achievement of
project objectives as foreseen in the approved documents may require extend-
ing the project period by one to two years. Civil works for livestock,
health, education, extension, rural roads and electrification are virtually
completed. The disbursement rate, which was slow in the beginning of the
project, has recent pleked up.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 4
Crt No. 900 - Road Maintenance Ptojett, US$16.5 million of Jufte 22; 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
A general 25% reduction in budget allocations for 1981, followed by a
further 10%, has meant a rescheduling of proposed expenditures for the project.
This has been-possible without sacrificing principal project objectives but
at the cost of deferring major rehabilitation work until towards the end of
the project. The allocation for 1982 has been increased to the original
estimate and it is expected that the project would be completed by late 1984,
almost one year later than estimated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Although the basic components of the T&V extension system have been
in place for some time and the Department of Agriculture (DOA) has been making
sustained efforts for its implementation, it is still not effectively oper-
tional in all areas of Sri Lanka. Major implementation constraints continue to
be shortage of middle and lower level staff, particularly of Subject Matter
Officers, inadequa_e monitoring and supevision by the DOA headquarters staff,
insufficient budgetary support for travel by field staff, inadequate equiF1ent
and support staff at the research stations, etc. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment, and civil works are proceeding satisfactorily. Overseas training
under the technical assistance program has started. IDA disbursements have
improved, but total disbursements at current credit closing date are not likely
to exceed US$5 million.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million of
July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms, defined
as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million, so
as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment creation,
export expansion, regional development and economic growth. The entire subloan
amount has been fully committed. Most technical and marketing service assis-
tance activities have been launched.
Cr. No. 979 - MIahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; US$3.0 million
of April 16, 1980; Effective Date:  July 7, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The draft Final Report prepared by the consultant for the Transbasin
Diversion Study was completed in December 1981 and was reviewed (with IDA
participation) in Colombo during March 1982. Findings of the study showed that



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 5
development of land in the Southeast and Northwest Dry Zones would be the most
economically viable alternative uses of surplus Mahaweli water, whereas use of
this water within the North Central River Basin would not be viable. Addi-
tional studies and sensitivity analyses were agreed to be undertaken to more
fully defined development alternatives, particularly in view of revised study
constraints and assumptions. Other studies to be financed under the credit for
the Mahaweli Ganga Development Project include additional aerial photography,
topographic mapping and land classification work.  The closing dates of the
Credit and the EEC Special Action Credit were extended till December 31, 1983,
to allow for completion of additional studies and investigation.
Cr. No. 994 - Road Passenger Transport Project; US$53.0 million of
April 16, 1980; Effective Date:  October 27, 1980; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1983
After a long delay by the beneficiary (SLCTB) in preparing bidding
documents for the procurement of the first batch of 660 bus chassis, a tender
was awarded in August 1981. A second award of 400 chassis was made in October
1982. Tender documents for final 210 complete buses have been completed and
awards made.
Orders for workshop machinery, critical units and spares have been
delivered but disbursements are lagging.
Cr; No. 1017-- Stallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$16.0 million
of June 24, 1980; Effective Date: September 10, 198U;
Closing Date: June 30; 1986
The project continues to reach its replanting targets, but is behind
schedule on most other aspects including staffing, civil works, procurement and
GPC rehabilitation. Because of these and other reasons, disbursements are
lagging behind schedule. Civil works continue to be delayed primarily because
of land acquisition problems. All consultants have completed their work.
Cr; No. 1020 - Telecomtunicatons Project; US$30.0 million of June 24; 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date: June 3.U,
The Government has already established a separate Telecommunications
Department as part of organizational improvements under the project. The
Government has also increased overseas telephone and telex rates. SLTD's
institution building progresses according to plans and its financial perfor-
mance is adequate. There has been a long delay in preparing tender documents
and award of tenders. Most of the tenders have now been awarded.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 1041 - Water Supply and Sewerage II Project; US$30O.0 million of
September 24, 1980; Effective Date:  February 26, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
WDB has appointed engineering consultants to supervise the construction
of the sewerage works under the Project and the financial consultants for
completion of WDB-s organization management and financial study. The project
expenditures have been rephased to reflect the reduction in local resource
allocation during 1981. Procurement of materials and equipment, and civil
works for the major component of the water supply project are proceeding
according to the new agreed--schedule.        -
Cr. No. 1048 - Sixth Power Project; US$19.5 million of September 24, 1980;
Effective Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
The IDA financed components are now proceeding satisfactorily. The
electricity tariff was increased again effective June 1, 1982. CEB has
appointed consultants for a program of "restoration" of systems and training:
a comprehensive training program has been prepared and implementation has
started. Engineering consultants have been appointed to design the project
components to be financed by the Saudi Fund. Consultants have also submitted
their proposals to CEB for reorganization of management structure.
Cr. No. 1079 - Second Rural Development -Project; US$33.5 m-illion--of
February 2, 1381; Effective Date:  June 2; 1981; Closing
Date:  June 30T86
In general, the project is progressing according to schedule as
revised after the 1980 and 1981 budgetary cuts. The progress on building
construction of most project components is satisfactory. The disbursement
rate which was slow in the beginning is picking up. The performance of the
consultants engaged to plan and design irrigation works is quite satisfac-
tory. The use of local supervisory consultants to assist project managemert
has been a mixed success.
Cr. No. 1130 - Construction Industry Project; US$13.5 million of June 1,
1981; Effective Date:  August 19, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. Full-fledged training programs in
different basic skills have started. Trainee output targets set for the period
up to July 1982 for Supervisory and Heavy Plant Operators have been achieved.
After minor adjustments, cumulative output targets in all training fields
(except artisans) seem achievable by mid-1984.
Cr. No. 1160 - Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$30.0 million
of July 15; 1981; Effective Datet September 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Construction continues to make steady progress although the program
has fallen somewhat below appraisal estimates due to construction delays and
overall budgetary constraints. The number of schemes to be included in the



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 7
program may fall below appraisal estimates (1,200) but the total commanded area
should remain unaffected since the average scheme size is proving larger than
expected. Considerable progress has been made in resolving problems associated
with the quality of construction although the expeditious scheduling of down-
stream development remains a problem area. The initial water management
program has been implemented successfully by the Department of Agrarian Serv-
ices, supported by a systematic and effective training program. The Project
Steering Committee has met regularly and Project Management has been effective.
Most equipment has been procured. The monitoring and evaluation program has
proceeded satisfactorily-. - I-f -budgetary-const-raints- continue, it- may be neces-
sary to revise the overall implementation program but the discrete nature of
individual schemes should permit this without undue difficulties.
Cr. No. 1166 - Mahaweli Ganga Development Project III; US$90.0 million of
November 5; 1981; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1982;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1987
Construction of the Mlinipe Right Transbasin Canal, although scheduled
for completion by mid-December 1982, clearly will not be completed earlier than
August 1983. The contractor has submitted claims for an extension of the
contract to end-July 1983. Much construction and clean-up work remain to be
done, including some repairs to completed sections of the canal. Jungle clear-
ing of Zone 3 is nearly complete and most of the settlers in this zone (mostly
displaced farmers from upstream-reservoir basins or-wor-k areas) have been
brought in. Construction of social infrastructure is underway, as well as of
one distributary canal. However, construction of the main and branch canals is
being delayed and initial irrigation deliveries in Zone 3 are not expected
before maha 1984, resulting in the settlers in this area being without irriga-
tion water for the first two years after settlement. GOSL has assured IDA that
future settlement activities will be closely coordinated with the provision of
irrigation water and the completion of necessary social infrastructure.
Cr; No. 1182 - Second Stall and Meditm Industries Project; US$30.0 million
of-February 5, 1982; Effective Date: Mlay 5,1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is underway. The project is national in scope
and builds upon the organization and capabilities initially developed under
SMI I.
Cr. No. 1210 - Seventh (MahaQeli Transtission) Power Project; US$36.0
million of April 8, 1982;  Effective Date:  July 23, 1982;
Closing Date:  May 31, 1985
Progress on this project is reasonably satisfactory. The contracts
for the 220 kV lines, 220 kV transformers and HV switchgear have been awarded.



-31-
ANNEX 1I
Page 8
Cr. No. 1240 - Tea Rehabilitation and Diversification; US$20 million of
Jutie 28; 1982; Effective Date: November 12, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1986.
Management constultants have commenced their field study.  Factory
equipment and vehicle tenders are being evaluated. Field rehabilitation
activities are ahead of schedule, but field diversification is slightly behind
schedule. Profitability of the two tea corporations has improved.
Ln. No. 2187 - Eighth Power (Diesel) Project; US$42.7 million of
of August 18, 1982; Effective Date: November 11, 1982;
Clo8Tng Date:  March 31; 1985.
Tenders for the single contract of entire components except the
technical assistance have been evaluated. The Bank has concurred with GOSL's
evaluation and contract award.
Cr; No; 1317 - Forest Resources Developmeut; US$9 million of February 2,
1983; Not Effective Yet
The basic objectives of the project are: (a) strengthening planning
capability in the forestry sector; (b) reducing constraint of skilled manpower
in the sector; (c) improving the management of existing forest plantations and
establishing new plantations on a limited scale to meet projected industrial
wood--shortag-es; and (-d) strengthening research and trial -programs to improve
sector productivity. The project would include the following major components:
(a) a forestry master plan, including a five-year investment program; (b)
forestry training; (c) industrial wood plantations; and (d) technical assis-
tance.
Project implementation is underway.



-32-
ANNEX III
SRI LANKA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
15 months
(b) Project prepared by:
Ministry of Plan Implementation assisted by
local consultants
(c) First presentation to the Bank Group:
March 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:
November 1, 1982
(e) Completion of negotiations:
April 5, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 30, 1983
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Action:
None
Section III:  Special Conditions:
Condition of Effectiveness:
Execution of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory
to the Association (para 43).



-33-                         ANNEX III
Page 2
Other Conditions:
(a) Appointment of a Project Director (para 37) and
establishment of a Project Coordination Committee
for each district (para 39); and
(b) Plans and designs of all facilities to be in accordance
with criteria and guidelines satisfactory to the
Association (para 41).



IV            -



l   i:   X  X  =  =  C o  i t  f  = X; ; t:E § Vo SlE -~~~~~~~S 3  ~ oc!  '
w   wO- o  >(v ,   ~3.¢<  C .    v_r.nc <1o     <1i    - JT|   
*                                              t    3   I  ;il   / @ tW lcj A u g !-^; 4 < i;= 0 _~~~~~~~~~~~7"   ~
_                                                                9;   v.   ;    0  ;_;   ;  t   0    0    0 ;s ; a= 0 ;; - ti ;; X 0 n n & O 0 w iv Z~~~~~~~~~~r)   K:
~~' ' Z 0 0 t; if 0tV Q 0 t : z i 0 0 V 0 i Q tt X 0 0 0 u _ _ O fTI~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
- 8°- q(> > w.-=-g a ag. Q W if . j: ° °r .-~
ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S fS                                          -7',    
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



