Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16306
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 1997
Private Sector Development, Finance, and Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATE
Equivalent in DH of US$1
At appraisal                                 8,4882
At closing date (June 1996)                  8,8018
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Annual averages
1987         8.3263
1988         8.2029
1989         8.5041
1990         8.2740
1991         8.7497
1992         8.5479
1993         9.3437
1994         9.2339
1995         8.5753
1996(June)   8.8018
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AH           Administration de l'hydraulique
DEPP         Direction des Entreprises Publiques et Participation
DGH          Direction Generale de l'Hydraulique
DRSC         Direction des Regies et des Services Concedes
FEC          Fonds d'Equipement Communal
MF           Ministry of Finance
ONEP         Office National de l'Eau Potable
PU           Project Unit
RAD          Regie de Casablanca
RADEEF       Regie de Fez
RADEEJ       Regie d'EI Jadida
RADEEM       Regie de Meknes
RADEEMA      Regie de Marrakech
RADEEO       Regie d'Oujda
RADEET       Regie de Tadla
RAK          Regie de Kenitra
RAID         Regie de Tangier
RED          Regie de Rabat
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
UDMP         Urban Development Master Plan
Vice President                  Mr. Kemal Dervis
Director                        Mr. Daniel Ritchie
Division Chief                  Mr. Amir Al-Khafaji
Responsible Staff               Mr. Fathi Ben Slimane, Sr. Financial Analyst
Mr. Sergio Calegari, Sr. Sanitary Engineer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ..................................i
Evaluation Summary ..................................i
PART I: Evaluation of the Project by the Bank ..................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation Of Objectives .................................1I
B. Achievement Of Objectives ..................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting The Project ..............................   5
D. Project Sustainability ..........................6
E. Bank Performance ............................7
F. Borrower Performance ............................7
G. Assessment Of Outcome ..........................8
H. Future Operations ............................8
I. Key Lessons Learned ............................8
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1.  Summary of Assessment
Table 2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3.  Project Timetable
Table 4.  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Actual and Estimated
Table 5A. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5B. Performance Indicators
Table 5C. Financial Indicators
Table 5D. Financial Statements
Table 6A. Action Program
Table 6B. Sector Program Matrix
Table 7.  Studies Included in Project
Table 8.  Project Costs and Project Financing
Table 9.  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11. Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Table 12. Bank Resources - Missions
APPENDIX: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



.          .....    |



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This implementation completion report relates to the National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
(Fourth Water Supply Project) implemented in the Kingdom of Morocco, under Loan No. 2825-
MOR for US$60 million. This loan was approved on June 2, 1987 by the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors, was signed on June 27, 1987, and became effective on April 22, 1988. It was
closed on June 30, 1996. The last disbursement was made on November 5, 1996. As of
November 5, 1996, a sum of US$57,683,424.66 had been disbursed, thus leaving an undisbursed
amount of US$2,316,575.34, which was canceled as of that same date.
This report was prepared by Fathi Ben Slimane (Senior Financial Analyst, MNIPI) ;r.d Mohamed
Larbi Khrouf (Consultant), and verified by Amir Al-Khafaji, Division Chief, MNIPI and Rend
Costa, Project Advisor, MN I DR. The preparation of this report was started by a Bank mission on
July 8-26, 1996, followed by a mission by a consultant on September 9 through October 4, 1996.
Comments were received from Sergio Calegari (Senior Sanitary Engineer), and Mr. Alexander
Velderman, Sanitary Engineer who supervised the project until 1992, and other staff and
incorporated into the final report.
The borrower has prepared its own evaluation report, a copy of which is included as an appendix
to this ICR.






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2825-MOR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives Set by Appraisal
1.     The main development and implementation objectives of the National Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project were to increase the productivity and the coordination of public investments
in the water sector, and increase the efficiency of the facilities, essentially by: (a) developing the
Government's and water supply companies' performance and capabilities to identify, prepare,
appraise, and monitor projects; and (b) improving sector management and investment planning, as
well as rehabilitating existing facilities. These objectives were of vital importance to Morocco.
However, they were deemed very ambitious and difficult to achieve taking into account the status
and number of sector institutions involved including the regies, Office National de l'Eau Potable
(ONEP), and Direction Gen6rale de l'Hydraulique (DGH).
2.     The SAR highlighted various risks related to the political support required for the various
reforms, specifically those pertaining to organizational, financial, and managerial reforms,
including: settlement of arrears, tariff adjustments, and the managerial and financial autonomy of
the regies. It was considered that these risks could be minimized by frequent supervision of the
project.
Achievement of Development Objectives
3.     The project objectives were partially achieved. Tables 6A and 6B in part 2 of the report
illustrate the various reforms and measures achieved. The most important were the creation of the
National Water Council and promulgation of the Water Code. In regard to the arrears, an effort
was made to settle the arrears as of December 31, 1986; however, the situation deteriorated
thereafter, essentially for two reasons: lack of monitoring of the collection procedure put in place,
and failure to take works invoices into account. The Bank has drawn the Moroccan authorities'
attention to the necessity for further and continuous actions. A second action was taken to settle
the arrears as of December 31, 1992, and new procedure for collecting administrative and
municipal arrears have been under implementation since 1993. ONEP is in charge on behalf of all
regies to follow-up and enforce the procedure which has helped so far to reduce the arrears.
4.     Financial performance targets as set in the SAR were too ambitious. Tables 5A to 5D
show key performance indicators achieved by the regies and ONEP. It was expected that the regies
would generate revenues from internal sources, exclusive of customer contributions, not less than
30 percent of their annual investments, and that ONEP would generate revenues of 15 percent in
1987, 20 in 1991, and 30 in 1992 and thereafter. ONEP was also expected to generate net revenues
to cover 1.3 times its debt service for each year. In addition, the r6gies and ONEP were to keep the
level of arrears at a maximum of three months of billing. The water tariff adjustments among
others, are considered the key actions to reach these performance targets. During project
implementation, however, these adjustments were not regularly made and the loan was suspended
for more than five months in order to obtain compliance with tariff adjustments and other loan
covenants, especially signature of a performance contract, and preparation of investment



ii
programs. Although tariffs were adjusted several times between 1985 and 1995, the above
financial performances were reached only by including customers contributions (para.6 of Part I).
5.     ONEP performed satisfactorily. It strengthen its structures, put in place an appropriate
methodology for identifying and executing rehabilitation works, and created a specialized
directorate for this activity. ONEP also improved its managerial capacity, developed its
information technology system, trained staff, adopted the new national accounting system, and
signed implementation performance contracts with the State.
6.     Most of the institutional actions were completed with delay, while others are still being
implemented under the ongoing Fifth Water Supply Project. More autonomy was granted to regie
managers in awarding contracts (1994), and the new national accounting system is still being put
in place in the regies. The ongoing actions include studies of an information management system
and of financial management for the regies. The study of the regies' training needs, and the
preparation of performance indicators for ONEP and the regies, were canceled. DGH achieved its
goals. New equipment and software designed to strengthen its capabilities is in place and all DGH
staff have been trained appropriately in the use of this equipment.
Achievement of Implementation Objectives
7.     Most of the physical components increased in size, except the rehabilitation of networks
component. The regies' subprojects were not well identified at appraisal level. It was agreed that
each regie, with the assistance of the Project Unit (PU) created in the Direction des regies et
services concedes (DRSC), would appraise its subprojects and its institutional capabilities and
submit the appraisals to the Bank for approval and disbursement. This resulted in several changes
in the scope and components of the regies' subprojects. ONEP introduced a new component, for
strengthening production in the city of Ben Slimane. All the water supply master plans were
completed and have provided each regie with a tool for planning and managing their water supply
activities.
8.     The studies carried out for DGH (Table 7 in Part II) covered other river basins in addition
to the Southern Atlas basins originally planned. The environmental impact study of the M'Jara
dam was also included, together with a study of cost recovery for water mobilization. The national
water resources master plan was delayed until completion of all above mentioned studies. It is
included in the Water Resources Management Project financed by the Bank.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
9.     The conditionalities for disbursing loan proceeds, the scope of the project (national
rehabilitation works), and the complexity and multiplicity of institutional and sector components,
combined with the regies' lack of familiarity with the Bank's procedures, largely accounted for the
delays that occurred with the first disbursements. Other delays were caused by the centralized and
cumbersome procurement procedures, which were reviewed late 1994 to give greater autonomy to
the regie by increasing the thresholds for prior review of procurement. The daily interference of
the oversight bodies, Ministry of Finances (MF) and Ministry of Interior (MI), in the r6gies
management; the accumulation of arrears; the lack of appropriate tariff adjustment; and the lack of
data and weak absorptive capacity of the institutions. Some r6gies were not fully convinced that
they should participate in the project, for several reasons: the small amounts allocated to them,
unbalanced institutional and financial covenants, and lack of knowledge of the Bank's procedures.
The lack of feasibility study and particularly the absence of master plans at the time of appraisal
led to poor design and identification of the subprojects. The absence of cooperation among the



regies also brought about delays in carrying out studies that were intended to benefit all of them.
10.   The cost of ONEP's project components increased, except for the component related to
rehabilitation of facilities. The increases resulted from essentially poor project design and
evaluation of works and the addition of a new component (Ben Slimane). The regies' subprojects
were reviewed and modified several times after appraisal to meet their urgent needs for
rehabilitation. DGH's project components changed, several new studies were introduced.
Implementation Delays
11.   A.bout nine months elapsed between signature of the loan agreement and loan
effectiveness. ONEP started slowly and the completion dates were behind schedule. Delays varied
according to the importance of the subprojects. The increased size of components also brought
about longer implementation times. The regies took longer to start their subprojects because of
low absorptive capacity and the conditionalities put before them, in particular submission of a
design and appraisal reports for their subprojects, and assessment of their financial performance.
Some subprojects were completed by the closing date of the loan, while some others will be
completed under the ongoing Fifth Water Supply Project. DGH completed its master plans and
information management studies between 1992 and 1996 because of difficulties encountered to
gather information related to water supply, irrigation and hydroelectricity sectors.
Project Sustainability
12.   The Moroccan authorities recognized the positive impact of the project on the
development of the sector, the value of the rehabilitation works, and the value of planning
instruments put in place. The performance agreement and protocol signed between the
Government and the water companies in 1993 highlighted all commitments and obligations of
concerned parties regarding financial and managerial autonomy of the water companies, as well
as the performance indicators to be achieved, and this has become an adequate framework for
development of the sector. However, it would have been more appropriate to better design the
project, adapt its scope to the beneficiaries' absorptive capacity, combine work and supply of
pipes in same contracts, and to provide for more private sector participation in water supply
activities.
Bank Performance
13.   Bank's performance has improved over time. Its attention and effort were geared from the
identification stage toward reaching consensus among water sector operators on the sector issues
and means to overcome sector shortcomings and inefficiency. The lengthy discussions on sector
development and policy ended up with a project that covers almost all the institutions involved in
the water sector. The Bank should have paid more attention to target the most urgent and
achievable sector development goals, and to the involvement of selected regies in project
identification and preparation. On average, two supervision missions per year were carried out to
oversee project implementation. However, the missions focused, beginning in early stage of
implementation, more on the physical components and financial management, and progressively,
put more and more emphasis on the institutional and administrative components.
Borrower Performance
14.   The borrower's performance varied from one beneficiary to another. The performance of
ONEP and DGH during project preparation was satisfactory, while the regies performed poorly,



iv
probably because they had not participated actively in the identification, preparation, and
appraisal stages of the project.
Assessment of Outcome
15.    Even though the project started slowly and faced implementation difficulties at the early
stage, it acheived basic policy and institutional reforms, and laid the foundation for further sector
development. In that basis the project overall performance is deemed to be satisfactory. The
r6gies, since completion of the project, now have a good planning and management tool (water
supply master plans), and the quality of their financial data has been improving since the
introduction of external audits, enforcement of management system study recommendations, and
adoption of the national accounting system. DGH, after completion of the project, now possesses
tools for planning and strategy based on its studies of water resource development plans of several
river basins. Rehabilitation works have reduced unaccounted-for water and costs. Water tariffs
have been adjusted frequently since 1993 and, as a consequence, the Government was able to
discontinue subsidies to ONEP beginning in 1995.
Future Operation
16.    The berneficiaries will continue to operate and maintain project supported facilities in
keeping with good operating and maintenance practices and, in particular, will ensure that leak
detection programs remain in force. It is therefore, envisaged that water losses will be further
reduced and network efficiency will be sustained. The project was catalytic in bringing other
donors and financiers (Federal Republic of Germany and France) to participate in financing the
development of the water sector through similar projects. The Bank has continued its intervention
in the sector and reinforced the above activities by providing financing for the Fifth Water Supply
project involving ONEP and six of the largest regies. In that respect, this project was considered a
pilot project.
Key Lessons Learned
17.    The institutional reformns identified at appraisal were important but overly ambitious. It
would have been preferable to concentrate the reforms on the largest regies and later duplicate
them progressively in the other regies, and to have limited the conditionalities and agreements to
those the regies were capable of achieving. The conditionalities set for appraisal, Board
presentation, and effectiveness discouraged some regies from participating in the project and
caused delays in implementation.
18.    Other lessons include: (a) future master plan studies should be based on the most recent
Urban Development Master Plan (UDMP); (b) it is desirable that cooperation among the different
regies be instituted; (c) it is also recommended that the regies participate in the process of
identifying, preparing and appraising the subprojects as well as selecting auditors and discussing
audit reports before issuing the final version; and (d) the project did not cover studies for
strengthening commercial activities in the regies, which were identified as a weaknesses of these
institutions. Future projects should include such studies when appropriate, and their scope should
be adapted to the beneficiaries absorptive capacity.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
(LOAN 2825-MOR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT BY THE BANK
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Objectives Set at Appraisal
1.     The main development and implementation objectives of the National Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project were to increase the productivity and coordination of public investments in
the water sector, and to optimize the use of water, essentially by: (a) developing the Government's
and water supply companies' capabilities to identify, prepare, appraise, and monitor projects in
accordance with clearly defined economic and financial criteria; (b) improving the water supply
companies' performance and reducing their dependence on budgetary transfers through
appropriate reforms of their structure, finances, and management; (c) upgrading the management
systems of these institutions and increasing the productivity of the water production and
distribution facilities; (d) rehabilitating the existing facilities to increase efficiency and reduce
operating costs; and (e) improving sector management and investment planning by establishing a
National Water Council, a Sector Investment Coordination Committee, and passage of the Water
Code.
2.     To achieve these objectives the project identified a number of technical, institutional,
financial, and administrative actions representing a total estimated cost of US$128.3 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$60 million, all financed by a loan from the Bank (Table 8).
The technical components included the rehabilitation and/or construction of water production and
distribution systems, supply of meters and leak detectors, preparation of studies for water supply
master plans, study of water resource development in the river basins south of the Atlas
mountains, and preparation of a national water resources master plan.
3.     The institutional and administrative aspects included components to enforce the
functioning of the National Water Council. They also included: (a) creation of a Sector Investment
Coordination Committee; (b) a study on the optimum organization of the water supply sector; (c)
creation of a permanent procurement committee in each regie; (d) technical assistance for
evaluating, coordinating and helping supervise the execution of the subprojects; (e) definition of
criteria for monitoring the performance of ONEP and the regies; (f) a study of an information
management systems for the regies; (g) supply and installation of computer equipment for DGH,
ONEP and the regies; and (h) a study of the regies' training needs. The financial aspects included
study and establishment of cost accounting for ONEP and the regies, inventories of the regies
assets, settlement of arrears, audits of ONEP's and the Regies' accounts by independent auditors,
and adjustment of tariffs on the basis of targeted financial indicators.



2
Evaluation of Objectives
4.     The objectives set for the project at appraisal were very ambitious and of vital importance
for Morocco. They aimed at optimizing the use of water resources and strengthening the
institutions' financial and managerial performance at the national level. This project was
identified at a time when Morocco was reluctant to allocate funds from its budget for new water
sector investments because of several years of drought. The project covered the AH, ONEP, 11
r6gies (5 of the 16 declined to participate), and the oversight authorities DRSC in the Ml and
DEPP in the MF. The above objectives and related actions and project components had predictable
implementation difficulties. The appraisal report mentioned a number of risks including the
political support needed to introduce and implement reforms, in particular those relating to the
settlement of arrears, tariff adjustments, and the managerial and financial autonomy of the regies.
It was considered that these risks could be minimized by frequent supervision of the project.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Development Objectives
5.     Sector Policy and Financial Aspects: The project partially achieved its sectoral and
financial objectives (Table 6A and 6B). However, this assessment does not apply equally to its
numerous components. Almost all components were completed behind schedule, and some were
canceled. The law establishing the National Water Council was not passed until 1995, the Water
Code was not passed until August 1995, and the external audit of the regies' accounts only started
in 1991. In addition, the creation of the investment coordination committee, preparation of a
national water resources master plan, and study of optimum organization for the water sector were
not achieved. On the financial side, a major effort was made to settle arrears as of December 31,
1986. However, the situation suddenly deteriorated and the arrears started to build up again, for
two reasons: the process was not monitored regularly and the appropriate collection procedure was
not implemented, and arrears related to work invoices were not taken into account. The Bank drew
the Moroccan authorities' attention to the alarming arrears situation and urged them to take the
appropriate actions to overcome this problem. As a result, a second action was taken to settle the
arrears owed by the administrations and the municipalities to ONEP and the r6gies as of December
31, 1992 and a new procedure for collecting administrative and municipal arrears have been
implemented since 1993. ONEP is in charge on behalf of all regies to follow-up and enforce the
procedure which has helped so far to reduce the arrears. Based on the latest report from the
borrower, the collection reach 90 percent of the consumption billed to the administration and
about 81 percent of those billed to municipalities.
6.     The project financial performance targets were very ambitious. It was expected that the
regies would generate annually from their internal net revenues, excluding customer contributions,
30 percent of their annual investment programs. ONEP was expected to generate 15 percent in
1987, 20 in 1991, and 30 in 1992 and thereafter. ONEP was also expected to generate net revenues
covering no less than 1.3 times its debt service for each year. In addition, the r6gies and ONEP
were to keep the level of arrears at a maximum of three months of billing. ONEP achieved the
self-financing and debt service targets, but the regies generated negative net internal sources and
only achieved their targets through customer contributions. The maximum ratio was achieved by
Kenitra (60 percent) and the minimum ratio by Fes (32 percent). The arrears remained at about 12
months of billings, well above the target of 3 months. However, arrears by private consumers were



3
kept at the level of 4 months, close to the target. The water tariff adjustments were some of the
main measures taken to reach these goals. During project life, however, these adjustments were
irregular and the loan was suspended for more than five months (from February 16 to August 23,
1990) in order to obtain implementation of the tariff adjustments, as well as preparation of
investment programs. There have been a total of 9 tariff increases ranging from 5 to 12 percent for
ONEP and an average, for the regies, of 14 percent from 1985 to 1992 and above 18 percent
thereafter. These increases improved the cash situation of the regies but were not sufficient to
generate net operating profits except for RED, RAK, and RADEEF, which at the end of the 1994-
1995 period generated positive operating income. The cash generation ratios were achieved
through customer contributions to the network and house connections. ONEP performed better
than the regies, and therefore, state subsidies to ONEP (Table 5C) were canceled beginning in
1995.
7.    Institutional Development: The institutional objectives were partially achieved. ONEP
accomplished most of its objectives. A methodology for identifying and implementing works was
developed and a specialized directorate was set up. The project enabled the strengthening of
ONEP's computer capabilities through procurement of new equipment and the establishment of an
appropriate information management system (SI-ONEP). Numerous training actions were carried
out, benefiting 1,296 staff members. Several other activities were carried out later than initially
scheduled, including signature of the performance contract between ONEP and the State, cost
accounting within ONEP, and implementation within ONEP of the new national accounting
system, which was adopted in Morocco in 1990.
8.     For the r6gies the main institutional developments, the regulation giving r6gies' managers
greater autonomy in procurement (1994), and the adoption of the new national accounting system
were implemented with delays. Some actions started late and are being continued under the Fifth
Water Supply Project; these include the study of information management systems for the regies
(except for RAD, which developed its own system with the help of technical assistance), and the
study for a management system for the regies that includes cost accounting, assets valuation, and
information management systems. The study of the regies' training needs, and the study for
performance indictors for ONEP and the r6gies which would have enabled the State to monitor
their activities in a uniform manner based on preset standards, was not carried out. For DGH, new
computer equipment and software were provided to strengthen its managerial capabilities. DGH
staff were trained in the use of this equipment.
Implementation Objectives
9.     The project's objectives were achieved through several changes in the design and scope of
the project. For ONEP, most of the physical components were increased in size (strengthening of
the production facilities at El Fourat, technical assistance, study of training needs, and the
purchase and installation of computers), with only the rehabilitation of facilities other than El
Fourat being downscaled. A new component was added to the project, namely the strengthening
of production for the city of Ben Slimane. The project made it possible to rehabilitate 89 km of
system line, inspect 11,421 km of system line, recover 4,546 m3/h after the repairing of leaks, and
rehabilitate 28 chlorinating stations, and four treatmnent stations, as well as the rehabilitation of
constructions in 16 centers. ONEP's operating efficiency was maintained at same level throughout
the life of the project. Unaccounted for water have been maintained at about 9 percent.



4
10.   Since the subprojects had not been clearly defined at appraisal, having been based on
preliminary studies, it was agreed that each r6gie, with the assistance of the DRSC's PU, should
appraise and evaluate its own subprojects and assess its own institutional performance, and that a
water supply master plans study for each regie would be carried out by consultants. The
subprojects were first defined and appraised by the Bank, then reviewed during implementation
by the regies and the PU. Consequently, the regies redefined their components several times, the
final version was based on the water supply master plans, which defined priority needs and
proposed solutions to water distribution problems. Since the disbursement of loan proceeds was
contingent on the approval of the subprojects and financial evaluation of the regies, the first
disbursement did not take place until 1990. Some of the subprojects were carried out by the r6gies
through force account and/or other sources of financing.
11.   The project as a whole, as implemented, was slightly different from the one defined during
appraisal. Some of the initially planned components were implemented, including the water supply
master plans for the regies. Some other components were eliminated or modified, while other new
components were added. The total actual project costs reached about 73 percent of estimated costs.
12.   For DGH, additional studies covered other river basins in addition to the master plans for
the southern Atlas basins originally included in the project. An environmental impact assessment
of the M'Jara dam was also carried out, together with a study on cost recovery of the water
mobilization. However, the national water resources master plan was delayed because the above
river basins studies were completed in 1996. It will be carried out under the ongoing Water
Resources Management Project financed by the Bank.
13.   Rehabilitation works had a positive impact on the efficiency of production and distribution
networks (Tables SA and SB). Unaccounted-for water rates improved over project life by one to
six percent on average. RED maintained its rate at 21 percent. RADEEM and RADEEMA
improved their rates from 41 to 34 percent and from 32 to 30 percent, respectively. The household
connection rate increased from 67 percent in 1985, when 6.6 million inhabitants were served, to 77
percent in 1995 covering 8.9 inhabitants. Total connections increased from 728,000 in 1985 to
1,190,000 in 1995. However, these numbers still do not reflect the real situation. Installation of
water meters in the networks, now being carried out under the Fifth Water Supply Project, will
better show the improvement in efficiency.
14.   The above changes in project scope and components led to: (a) postponement of the
closing date by one year, from June 30, 1995 to June 30 1996; and (b) an amendment of the loan
agreement to increase disbursement rates from 45, 38 and 36 percent for parts A, C and D
respectively to an uniform rate of 65 percent. The total actual costs of the project at closing date
reached US$94.9 million compared to US$128.3 million at appraisal of which US$49.6
representing the regies project costs, US$35.6 million representing the ONEP project costs, and
US$9.7 million representing the DGH project costs.
Economic Evaluation
15.   The analysis of key financial data for the period 1987-95 yields an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 3%. (the SAR estimated an ERR of 18.25%). Based on the data available from the most
performing regies, the project's operating costs generally have varied from 3% to 12% of
investment costs. These costs were considered to be constant for the period after 1995. The ERR
analysis (see table 9) represents a conservative scenario based on the assumption that output of



5
water distributed will remain constant. During the period 1988-95, the output of available water
for distribution for this project varied from 59% to 80% of production depending on the regie. The
yield of 75% to 80% was maintained for the subsequent years. The data relating to eight
executing agencies (ONEP + 7 R6gies) indicates an overall improvement in the performance of the
system. However, beginning in 1993 there were no further gains in consumption (water
distributed). This stagnation was mainly due to an increase in tariffs that negatively impacted
water consumption of the population at large (new connections to the network covered mainly
marginal users). As the current tariff structure is considered to be inappropriate, provision was
made in the ongoing fifth water supply project for a study to address the issue of tariff structure.
Overall, this investment provided water saving capabilities, access, and health benefits (although
not quantifiable) to the population living in the project area.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
16.   The conditionalities imposed on each regie for effectiveness and disbursement were the
main reasons for the delays. Difficulties in implementation were caused by the complexity of the
project design, together with the multiplicity of institutional and sector components for which the
r6gies were not prepared, and the regies' lack of knowledge of Bank procedures.
17.   The centralized and cumbersome procurement procedures imposed on the regies, and the
interference of the oversight bodies in their day-to-day management, were among the main factors
leading to their low performance in implementing the subprojects. These two problems are being
addressed in the Fifth Water Supply Project. In addition, the tariff increases were not always
implemented on time, and in fact were often not put into effect until the Bank insisted. Settlement
of arrears for water consumption by the central and local government administrations still face
some problems despite the procedures put in place in 1987 and in 1993 to keep administrative
arrears at an acceptable level. The procedures lacked: measures to determine appropriate
budgetary allocations for water consumption by the central and local government administrations,
and measure for improving management of the meter reading, billing, and collection process for
water consumption, including works invoices.
18.   The Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC) loans initially envisaged for completing the
financing of the subprojects were made available to only the one r6gie that met the required
guarantees. Some studies to be carried out for DGH were delayed due to the difficulties
encountered by the consultant and by DGH in gathering basic documents and data needed for
these studies.
Factors Generally Subject to Control of the Implementing Agencies
19.   The small amounts allocated to some r6gies, as well as the lack of knowledge of Bank
procedures and the size of the institutional components and conditionalities, discouraged the r6gies
from participating in the project. The absence of feasibility studies and master plans for the r6gies
at appraisal made it difficult to identify the subprojects with accuracy. The lack of cooperation
among the regies created difficulties for RAD and RED in carrying out management studies and
training for the benefit of all regies.



6
20.    Regarding ONEP, the appraisal estimated cost of US$31.7 million increased by 12 percent
to reach US$35.6 million. The cost of all components increased compared to the appraisal
estimates, except for the rehabilitation of facilities, which decreased by about 27 percent, due to
the downscaling of its scope. The cost changes were due to poor identification of the works to be
carried out (rehabilitation of the El Fourat facilities), and a change in the design of several
components (technical assistance, training, and computer equipment). In addition, new
components were introduced based on detailed studies carried out during implementation
(strengthening of production facilities for the city of Ben Slimane). As a result of these changes in
project cost, the initial loan amount of US$13.8 million, was raised to US$19.5 million. Regarding
the regies, the final cost was US$49.5 million compared to US$86.6 million at appraisal. For the
DGH, the composition of the project changed, and several new studies were added while others
were canceled. The final cost of the DGH component was US$9.7 million compared to US$10.05
at appraisal.
21.    About nine months elapsed between signature of the loan and its effectiveness. The
effectiveness date was postponed twice to enable the Moroccan authorities to provide the required
documents (subsidiary loan agreement between ONEP and the State, ONEP-State performance
contract, legal opinion, approval of the loan agreement by the prime minister), and for the ONEP
board to discuss the subsidiary loan agreement. In addition, the lack of specific studies and
definition of the scope of the rehabilitation works were causes for delay.
22.    The regies' subprojects started late because of the conditionalities imposed. Most of the
11 regies did not have the capacity required to prepare the above reports and the PU was not able
to help them in this regard. Moreover, the approval of these reports by the Bank took longer than
expected. The new procurement procedures, which would have giving the regies managers more
autonomy in that activity, became effective only in 1994. The cumbersome procedures in place
during project implementation were a major cause of delays. Consequently some subprojects were
not completed until the loan closing date, while others were not completed and were transferred to
the Fifth Water Supply Project.
23.    The studies for DGH, were scheduled to be completed in mid-1990, but were not
completed until 1992 - 1996, The delays were due to the difficulties experienced in gathering basic
census and other data from concerned administrations related to water supply, irrigation and
hydroelectricity sectors, the increased scope of some studies, and the lengthy approval process of
the monitoring committee.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.    The project had a positive impact on the organizational and structural setup of the
beneficiaries, on their financial and operating performance, and on the water sector in general.
The Moroccan authorities are convinced of the value of the rehabilitation works and of the
planning instruments put in place, as demonstrated by the follow-up of the rehabilitation actions in
the Fifth Water Supply Project. The performance agreement and protocol signed between the
Government and the water companies highlighted all commitments and obligations of concerned
parties regarding the financial and managerial autonomy of the water companies, as well as the
performance indicators to be achieved. However, it would have been more appropriate to better
design the project and adapt its scope to the absorptive capacity of the beneficiaries. In addition, it
would have been preferable to provide for more private sector participation in the water supply
activities. Only RAD, the largest regie operating in the sector with less operational and managerial



7
performance, is currently negotiating with Lyonnaise des Eaux, a concessional contract covering
the r6gie's water, power and sewerage activities.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.    The Bank's performance in identification, preparation appraisal, and supervision was
satisfactory. The preparation work started in 1983. More than four years elapsed between the loan
signature date and the first identification of the project. The project at the beginning involved
ONEP, and was subsequently extended to all parties involved in the water supply sector. In
addition, the project at first targeted only new investments, but due to the difficulties in mobilizing
the local counterpart and the impact on the national budget of the drought years, the emphasis
shifted to rehabilitation, water saving, and deriving maximum benefit from the existing facilities.
Accordingly, the regies were included to expand the national efforts of preventing leaks and
ensuring maximum water saving.
26.    However, the regies, which vary in size and have differing concerns, were not consulted
enough during preparation of the project. To overcome this shortcoming, they were required after
signature of the loan agreement to assess their own capacity to prepare and appraise their
subprojects. They were also required to evaluate their financial performance. In addition, master
plan studies to identify and prepare the subprojects were included, but waiting for these studies to
be completed in order to define the subprojects delayed execution at a time when the loan was
already effective.
27.    Only 11 of the 16 regies had any motivation to participate in the project because of the
eligibility criteria, the conditionalities for disbursement, and the amount allocated to each of them.
The other r6gies implemented their subprojects with financing from other sources. Moreover, the
Bank's appraisal of the subprojects was superficial, leaving the regies to appraise their institutions
and subprojects with the assistance of DRSC's PU. The regies did not, however, have the
experience needed to carry out such appraisals, while the PU, with only two experts (an engineer
and a financial specialist) for all rdgies, was not able to handle this workload. Even though the
Project Unit was staffed with local specialists the two experts were not recruited until October
1989, i.e, more than two years after signature of the loan agreement. Since appraisal by each regie
was a condition for disbursement and it took time for the Project Unit and the regies to familiarize
themselves with the preparation of these reports, the first report was not approved by the Bank
until the end of 1989, more than two years after loan signature.
28.    There were two supervision missions per year, on average, to monitor the project. But
because the missions concentrated at the beginning on the implementation of physical
components, review of financial statements, enforcement of tariff increases, and submission of
external audit reports, the focus on institutional and administrative components, including the cost
accounting,, the training studies, establishment of the investment coordination committee, and the
creation of the procurement committees improved overtime. The Bank's comments and follow-up
to the regies reports were prompt except in a few cases. Most of the reports were reviewed quickly
and sent back with comments to help the beneficiaries improve the quality of the reports.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.    ONEP's performance was satisfactory. It developed the capability and expertise needed to
appraise and prepare projects. The regies, on the other hand, were not accustomed to working with



8
the Bank and did not participate actively in appraisal. Performnance varied from one regie to
another, ranging between satisfactory and unsatisfactory. DGH's performance was satisfactory.
However, it should be noted that in the institutional and financial aspects the beneficiaries did not
fully meet their commitments, especially in the first years of implementation. The tariffs were not
adequately adjusted to enable the regies to achieve their financial performance until 1993. As in
the past, water supply activities continued to generate operating losses and the financial covenants
were achieved because of consumers' contributions (para.6). The a priori control of the two
oversight bodies remained the major constraints for improving the operation and managerial
accountability of the regies. It is only with the Fifth Water Supply Project that the Government
agreed to sign a performance agreement with the regies aiming at developing tools for more
managerial autonomy.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.    Even though the project experienced difficulties in early stage of implementation of
project components were canceled, modified or not completed by the closing date, it did enable the
beneficiaries to identify and solve some of the problems in the water sector and prepare follow-up
projects. The project helped to establish external audits for the regies, set up a national audit
committee, and facilitate enactment of the audit accounting codes, which resulted in a modernized
national accounting system being used by all regies, and ONEP starting in 1994. It also established
the practice of internal audit in the regies, provided the regies with master plans, reduced
unaccounted-for water through leak detection programs, and modernized operational practices. It
also enforced water tariff adjustment, especially as of 1993, which increased the sector's cash
situation and enabled the cancellation of state subsidies to ONEP. Also as a result of the project,
DGH now has master plans for developing the water resources of the major river basins, which
will form the basis of a national water resources master plan to ensure optimum utilization and
distribution of available water among the various users.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
31.    The project has helped the beneficiaries to develop preventive and curative operating and
maintenance activities through continuous leak detection and replacement of obstructed and
broken water meters. The beneficiaries will continue to operate and maintain project
supported facilities in keeping with good operating and maintenance practices and, in
particular, will ensure that leak detection programs remain in force. It is therefore,
envisaged that water losses will be further reduced and network efficiency will be.
sustained. The project could therefore be considered a pilot project for development of the water
supply sector in Morocco. The project has encouraged other donors to participate in financing the
development of the sector through similar projects. The Federal Republic of Germany and France
have been the major cofinanciers in the sector, The Bank has identified two follow-up activities
and prepared the ongoing Fifth Water Supply Project involving ONEP and six of the largest regies,
as well as the Second Sewerage Project for RADEEF to reinforce the above operations.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.    The institutional reforms identified at appraisal were important but ambitious. It would
have been more appropriate to focus on the largest regies as a first action and extend the reform to
other regies in a subsequent project. It would have been more appropriate also to adapt project



9
scope to the beneficiaries' absorptive capacity. The project enabled the regies to become familiar
with Bank procedures for preparation and appraisal of projects. However, the requirement that the
regies appraise their own investments was too ambitious. The magnitude and number of
conditionalities for appraisal, Board presentation and effectiveness were the cause of delays.
33.    The master plan studies should have been based on the latest urban development master
plan (UDMP); otherwise the master plan studies will not be accurate. In the case of RED, the use
of outdated master plans created problems. The master plan study was completely reviewed and
redone to take the new UDMP into account. Some regies entrusted the master plan study to
consultants and then canceled the contract because of the absence of an UDMP.
34.    The project was able to overcome the lack of coordination and cooperation among the
various regies by having RAD and RED monitor and follow-up management study that would
benefit all the regies. RAD and RED, however, faced problems in sharing the financing of the
study, and in coordinating with the other rdgies to obtain agreement on planning and study
recommendations. In future projects, terms of reference for such operations should be prepared
before appraisal.
35.   Regarding the audits, the rdgies were not involved in the selection of the auditors, the
follow-up, and discussion of the audit reports before publication of the final version until 1993.
Currently, the regies are invited to attend the meeting of the DRSC audit committee, which hires
auditors and discusses the audit reports with the regies.
36.    The Procurement Committee was not able to resolve the problem of the slow contract
award procedures. Contracts exceeding DH 500,000 are still subject to approval by the oversight
bodies. Approval of evaluation reports and contracts still takes considerable time; for example, it
took one year for approval of the contract for the Casablanca master plan study.
37.   A Special Account was not opened for this project because of Treasury procedures for
opening and operating such accounts. These procedures are cumbersome and lengthy and requires
several clearances before the accounts can be accessed and replenished.






ICINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 82S-MOR)
STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMNT
A. Achievment of objecdves                  Subatanllal          Par,d       Neliudblk            Not applcable
Maco policies                              E                      l            E                      E
Sectorpolicies                                                  0              Q                       Q 
Fianl objecives                                                 0             El                      El
"ondd*veloEl                                                   0E                                    El3
Physical olectives                        El                                   El                     El
Povety reduction                          ED                    OJ            E                      El
Gender isse                                El                  El                l                   (ZI
Otber soCKsil objecves                                          E                                      0
Enviromental ojecEives                                          E              E 
Public secor managemni                     El                                  El                     E
Private sctor deveIopant                    0                   E              0                       0
Other                                      OOae
B. Project sustabinahty                                         Likely       UnlYily             Uncertoln
0                 l3                   El
C- Bank performane                                        Highly            Safi factory         Defident
satuifactory
Identification                                                  EJ             12                   El
Preparationasistance,                                                          IZ                    0
App-ais                                                          0l                                 El
Supervion                                                        00                                  El 
D. Borrower performance                                   Highly            Satisfat0oy          Deficient
satisfactory
ipreparatioo                                                      l              0Z                  El
lnpleretaion                                                   13              12                   0
Covenant oompliance                                              O               0                   E
Operation (if applicable)                                       E               E                    E
E. Asessmet of outcome                  Highly              Sa1tsfactory    unsaisfactory       Highl
satlsfacto.ry                                            unsattifactory
o E                 l 0 E



TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDM
LoaxCkwdJta &                               IP.ae                             Yea f          Sb*u
mlk                  ______
Preceding Opeatons
Loan 850-MOR        Construction of frs twanche of production facilies in Ctal  1972   Ccaplced in 1980
First Water Supply  Atlatic Coast (betwee Kenitra and Casablanca). It includes         PPARN* 3721 du 16
Projet              extension of edsng traent plant; construction of dam; pomping      dec 1981
staion; mains; institutional strngthening. Loan amount was USS
48 millions
Loan 1724-MOR       Construction of additional facilities to increae poduction capcity  1979  Cmpleted 1987
Second Water        in the Atantic Coast. Construction of prduction facilitiae in Grand  PPARN N 725 du 8
Supply Projet       Agadir. Revolving fiuds for ocil  nections. Further action for     juin 1990
insitutional strtePrn of ONEP ( management_ finnce etc...).
Loan amount was USS 49 millions
Loan 2006-MOR       Construction of regional wster supply systems, as wel as in the  1981  Completed in 1989
Third Water Supply mid-size town.. Strengthening of the Revolving funds for social     PCRN    '*** du
Project             connections for ONEP and 3 Regies. Strengthening ONEP's            juin 1993
structue. Loan amount was U1S$ 87 millions
Loan 2825-MOR        ntroduce policy reforms to stgthen the sector, rehabilitation and  1937  Completed in juin
National Water      improvement of the efficiency of the exiding production and         1996
Rehabilitation      distribution systems; strengthen the financial policy of the sector to
Project             increase cost recovery,Loan amount was US$ 60 millions
Loan 3664 & 3665- Rehabilitation, extension et renforcement of water distribution  1993  Under
MOR                 system of ONEP and six Rgies (RAD-Casablanca, RADEEF-Fes,          implementation
Fifth Water Supply  RADEM-Meknae, RADEEMA-          e     RAK-Kenitra et RED-
Project             Rabat Salt). Stegthening of managerial capability as wall as the
efficiency of these institutions.
Loan amount is USS 128 millions & US$ 32 mins
Loan S-7-MOR        Sewarage study for the Great CasablancaEtude cdasaiiemet du  1977  PCR 14 of June
First Swarage       Grand Casablanca                                                    1984
Project
Loan 2826-MOR       Master Plan Studies for 9 large cities and r6habilitation of  1987  Under
Great Casablan      sewarage net works of Casablanca. Loan amount is USS60 millions    implementation
Sewarage Project
Loan 4010-MOR       R&habilitation and extension of sewarage networks in Fes.  1996    Under
Second Sewarage     Construction of treatment plant in F&s Provision for equipment for  implmentation
Project             monitoring pollution. Tchnical Assistance, to improve and
strengthen RADEEF's institutional, financial and technical
structure for new sewerage activities
Loan amount is US1 40 millions. CFD cofinaing amount is US$
23,6 millions.
Loan 2272-MOR       To improve among others FEC's capacity to finance sewerage and
Pilot Project       water supply sysms; taining of FEC' staffto improve their
Municipal           lending capacity management.
development Funds
"FEC"
Loan 3616/17-       Technical Assistance to improve Municipal capacity to invest in
MOR                 water and sanitation sctors
First Project for
Municipal Finance                                                                -



TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Planned                   Actual
Identification                                                     Jan -1983
Preparation                              Sept-1984                 Sept- 1985
Apraisal Mission                                                   Feb-1987
Loan Negotiation                        13-April- 1987           13-April- 1987
Board Approval                                                   02-June- 1987
Loan Signature                                                    27-juil-1987
Loan effectiveness                      27 Oct-1987              22-April-1988
Closing Date                            30-june-1995              30 june-1996
Projet Completion



Table 4 LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
100
Disbursements 2825-MOR                               _
90
SO--SAR     - Profile -Actual
80
70
60
40
4.5
30
20
0
r-  00   00   O
00  0fi0  X,f00  00  0                                  X
$ millions      FY 87 FY 88 FY 89 FY 90 FY 91      FY 92 FY 93 FY 94 FY 95 FY 96
Appraisal estimate          5.40  13.20  24.60  35.40  44.40  52.20  57.60  60.00  60.00  60.00
Actual                     0.00    1.39   2.01   7.67  15.71  23.92  32.45  46.72  54.84  57.68
Actual as % of estimate       0    11%     8%   22%     35%    46%    56%    78%    91%    96%
Date of final disbursement      31 october 1996



Tabi- Pe 11A : buS.I.- d. pvrrMddmd
E40A*           RAI)                 RED                                    RADEEMA                RAID               RADEEM        I                    I                            RAK                RADEEr                RADEM
R.b,kP.                               97    1              97                                                             17                 ffy                   $7                   17        n          87                   ry                  07
P,d.,d,              (M.3)
Saw P.Wit P. la -de,                 mw         4.0   1    1.7                  LS                  ILO        0.7       0.0                  6.1       IA        20.3                  0.0                 10.6                 16.8                 -A                   1.7
SaW   bW d. rONEP                    bw         161,7     tn?                  72.5                 SU        35.0       393                  tS.O_     30 0      14.5                 22.6                 I"                   4.1                 110                   14.2
OW -    bnft                         %W        165.7      174.4      57.6      75.0       50.6      66.6      35.6       39.9      27.9       21A       31.6      34.8       18.1      22.0      20.7       2D.9      16.0      20.9       9.7       12.3       9.1        15.9
%W         diW                       M=3        110.6     119A       47.1      59.4       31.6      ai        26.3       27.6      18.9      16.2       20.1      23.1       12.7      I&2        9.5       ILI       12,0       153        5.3       7.1       6.3        its
MM3        35.1      SO         9.9       15.6       19A       21.5       9.4       123       8.9        4.9       its       11.6       5.4        111       11.2      2.3        4.0       5.0        4.0       4.4       2a9        5.1
len                               %        33*3%     313%       17.D%     2D.11%     37.3%     32.3%     26.4%      30.9%     32-0%     22.9%   .  36.4%     33.5%      30.0%     17.3%     34.1%      42.1%     25.0'A     23.9%     41.0%     363%       31.3%     311%
wava-,                  mdam           U        5,069     2,677      !923      2334       2101     8,421     4,743      2.457     1.739     3.600      1324       3326      2,037     2,231      1.379                          2195
__1137       2521                 3,526     11,090     1,3ft     I'M
u        2,20                 6495       IZ47      708       5,261     2,641      940        341                  Sao       2060                           313                  1210      S113      S,929     12,492      504        0
md adda                u       139X7     163AN      56,209     73,99D    41,374     13,669    SBAU      "An        46,M                 22,633    29,101     23,076    30,110D   28,919     44,909    113M       26301     9.455     23.572     15,623    251M
tMd ladadma sad-                       u        14.941 120.475       30M       51630      5.602  1  I5,U3     11,91P    23,963     5,130                3953      15220   _           _           2,U9      1,612     11230      12043     5.9"      12,482     5,717      9,144
POPW.6= uic                           lab     2,655,000  3.159,OW             1,412,0811  602,200  212,000   557,ODO    690,000   430,3111             377000     4MW       3OZODO    480 OOD    309 OOD   367AN      160643    34400     243,000    34000     20(iM     281 ON
popul.ficamiewidt                  100owk     1,11N.0   2,457.0               1,132.0    390,5     563.0     373.2      303.7     290.7     426.2      241.0     396.0      227.2     410.0      223.0     3w*        91.9      2".9      120.2     211.1      130.4      197.0
pwdmd- -,i. por BF                  1000 hb     815.0     701.0                2no        221.7     244.0      193.3     196.3     149.7      159.2     136A       73.0      74.8       70.0      96.0       67.0      ".8       45A       127.2      105.0     69.9       11417-
Bwdal rem-
-mu"ll. madiom                          v          0         13                   -          0         0         5         to         2         to                   -          12       (-S)       4-2)      (-SI        -         0         2         2          3         13
S.W hoMO60                             u         250       276        160       168        258       229       124        M         IN        214                  173        88        131        65        29         65        45        94         92        23         40
F.A.
IWEIN-d-b-d                           1-          --       172       2013       2463       hm      237.739       -      479."7                233                   -         321       903      391.652   729.632      -                    -         ISO     338.400   434,570
-.bm do Ams dftMm                      u                   218       1229       1235       304       243         -        476                 250-                 900       1939      6,689      Su         399                           -          300        III        75
.0.10 de fMm dp.Ow                     u                   213       7636      10370       304       243   1   5028      lo_m                 4,792                9M                  6.6119      511                           3327                 300        5$4       372
bm do md~       bb*A% 4&kwds        u       60000      1200                 ItI65     IGoDQ     S_Ml1      4.723                3,000     9AI                            3,424      3.917     4.212     2.959                2022       IMO       1,10111.   711       1.05
%do ampm, blqk dhb-hs                  %          -       0.3%                 42.4%                5.6%   1    -           -        -                                                                      5.0-A                4.2%                 5.4%                 16%
-.Am do ampbaw, *Wb                    u        173115     2w        192111     71"       Z330      5.5611    4.942      2,"                  4.045                                     -
1,610     1.382      1.279     4,-N                 1816      1,275       0         667       $41
w-ba de a-Imm, bwaft                   v                                                  3.700     10,3971   4.923      4,913     7,436      6,573     15511      5030      L961   1  4.904      1,962     2.494
Pan-d gt ]FM-dim (DoUL KAO
.  100M..                                      27        33         1 2       29         24        63                              4         13        30        39         10        12         6         to         5         t'?        6         1 1        3         6
85                   41_       31         9 1       133                            5 1        66        100       146        26        52         14        49         24        52        12         24        16         22
520       606        3            t                 457                            193        167       m          394       136       199        24        120        120       145       133        142        $2
6                                        323       266                             66        33         49        58                             130       102        36        40         26        1 1        12         2
P.Nmd L. IWO                                     4.1       4.9                                       9.2                  me        6.1        16        21.5      14.1       &I        5.2        7.4       &2         la        6.6       11.5       S-2                  3.41
-ba de Ni.. d. fmab-                                        93                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
-b. d*ab                                                   101                                       102                             -                                                                                            25 917          E=         1



Tabkeau N SB: Evvbio.f dos Do..A. Statistiq.a
93.th            MDE                 RED                RADELEF            RADEEAM                 R4ID              RADEEM                RAAMS               RADE.EO                RAE                RADEET               RADEE
____________________________          1915in     1995      198       1945       19*7      1995       1955      1993      195        1995      197        1         i5n95     1995       19n5      599        19*5      1991      1in1       1995      19*5       1995
oplIoa 0o000                                  25020     3158.0     990.0     1412.0     602 0     912.0      522.0     6900O      39560     594.5     371.0      469.0     302.0      48000     299.0     367.0      221.0     544.0        234.0   322.0      179.0     231.0
-.k pw bfrbmam                   4      68.9%      77.8%     71.1%      90,2%     03.1%     70.0%      60.9%     72.9%     61.5%      72.9%     65.9%      94.4%     75.2%     93.4%      6.3.%     81.7%      64.3%     36.9%      43.3%     67.5%     63.7%      701%
9,0   7220O    2437.0     704.0     1132.0     3000      56000      393.0     5030o      23649     426.2     241.0      396.0     227.0     410.0      190.0     360D.0     9420      299.0     909.0      297.1     994.0      9970O
b.del.,dxmc65144                                         1I4       67-0      125.7                 03.7      34.0       92.8      43.6      78.2       27.0      44.3      29.0       50.       20.3       03.5      20.1       38.3      13.2      33.0       19.4      33.5
hdW.b.a.a,0                                   2040O     420.0      9993       9924      56.        99.9      33.0       93.0      43.6      79.2       39.0      62.0      33.9       69.0      29.1       39-3      25.9      45.0       96.7      34.5       29.3      39.4
b.sd.wW909u/l000ku.d,                U         6 3        7.0       69        5 6        93.       0.0        3.1       3.3         .        4.4       22.0      94.0       6.2       3 2        391       3.3        07        66        99.0       5A4       3.5        3.7
d.debesa.adm                         U         245       276        196       196        258       228        966       95        199        294        .         173       9s        939        63        29       745         45         III       92         29        40
o .mia &itwIaRd&l                   Mf.a3t.      4.0       I.7       25         235       20.0      92.0       912                  95        6.1       30.7       20.3                           9.6       90.6       9919      16.9       2.3       9.6        12       197
9,.h.W ONEP/S0D                     M,a3/-      9694      172.7      53.4   1  725        30 0      34.6      32.8       399       223        95.9      2.3        94+5     1996       22 0       935       903        3.9       491        6.9       9967       7l        94.2
ohaa.djg.1M631.,Ss                              990.6     119.5      40.7      594        32.0      43.1      22.9       27.6      96.2       16.2-     1999      2391       1390      902        9 7.2     12-11      92.3      15.9       9.2       7.1        7.1       90.1
o9~aaa&dM6leoo9eft)39o,hdi,            4      33.1%     31.5%     199.%      20.8%      36.0%     32.3%      32.0%     30.8%     29.9%      WM.9      40.9%     33.5%      27.8%     17.3%      50.%      42.1%      21.7%     2339%      0.49%     41.9%     2138%      3
ol.,a oin   6W bth.9.                 34         2.1       9.9       1.9        1.3       9.6       1.         1.2        Us        1.0       0.         2.0       1.4       1.3        1.0       1.7       U.         1.7        1.1       1.7       0.6        93         U
bde compieaouu                      1,0       3060O      443.0      99.0      21.0      5600       99.9                                                                             _   _       20.1       59.3      25.9       49,0      96.7       34.3      20.0       39.4
de ids= de dighOa,                ha       2403.0    3139.0     9729.0    2463 0     629 0     9263.0     594 0     99730      4693      634w9     3670O      62460     0290       993.0     323.6      720.6     329.7     59935      192.9     45197      265.0     434.6
d~6ed0a  Imob.a                         41.0      42.0      31.0       24.0       90.8      93.0      9130       97.0      26.0      37.0       12.0      92.0      91.0       95.0       9.0       0.0       903        11.3       7.0       90.0      14.0       22   -
de U bIUw    9 h .U.,4               U6A-       5.0       6.0       193        4 0        035       0.2        935       9 0         .        4.9                 1 6.0      3.7       74         935       0.5        .         04        200        94.0      2.7        0.6
do them  h~~~~~~~~     a, ~~     16.7      9 7.       253A      19.6    91.12        90.1      19.8   1   92.6      10.6       01        9.         4.        04        1.        1.          34       9.         95.6      12.        3.        1.7        13.0
nleedemm&memea              U         9~~~~~~~~80  9.0l   94j6 0                          9.         0         2          2       24.0        9 10  1   4 0         .        40        2.0        4.0        -          .         .0        70       96k92
AV -M      de pmemi                9- /2               9/12     /2         1 6/2     96/O5     3 ,5/2,3              7/19      9/1.5      660       6/2,3S                 .        /_9W        ..                40/9       4,91/9   90/2 .6/2  9092; 6/2  495        3/9



ROYAUME DU MAROC
Projet National de Rehabilitation de la Distribution de lEau Potable
TABLE 5C: INDICATEURS FINANCIERS
INDICATEURS                      ONEP                      RAD                      RED                   RADEEF
FINANCIERS                 1987        1995         1987        1995         1987        1995         1987        1995
doexploitation avant amortis   60.2%/       61.3%       101.9%       98.5%        94.1%       S2.3%       100.9%       82.9%
o dexploitation aprds amortisse  88.8f%     S8.6%       117.2%       106.5%      105.1%       94.4%       104.9%       98.3%
R adutof n   ent               -   3.04   -           .-_-_-_--------.44.6  -  -----_----45. ___   _-   -   -36.7
R oendettemen                   25.9'/       22.5%        8.3%        5.1%        12.3%        4.9%        13.0%        24.1%
Ratio Savic de la den_                  1,98 ---- ------.02 ------         --- - -        _      _
Tarif de vete en gros  Wm3)          1.20       2.08          -            -           -
Trif dfe vente an del (D)Vm3)       1.S8        3.72         2.41         5.58        2.31        5.61         1.16        3.39
Anier6 enjour du chiffe d'affaires  249          365         918          358         415          230         709          375
DICATEURS               DRADEEMA                          RAID                    RADEM                    RAMSA
FINANCIERS                 1987    |   1995         1987        1995         1987        1995         1987        1995
RJO depoittionavanmarnortiue       97.ShI      100.5%       117.5%      223,0%       72.1%        90.2%        nta         S5.8%
Rato d'exploitation apr6s amortisse  100.5%    105.9%/.     136.6%      230.5%       74. 1%      105.1%       nWa          96.9%
Ratio d' inofunten               _        9. _            _ _--- --36 --------   _ --- -------- 59 _        -   -
Ra o (rendetenent                  13.0Y%       12.0%                                15.0%        7.0ff        nh          6.7%
Ratio Se-vice de                                                                         - det2  ----      ----
Tarif de vente en gm   (D1Wm3)             I      -                  I _               -      I     -                        - 
Taif de vente en &WIl (DWm3)        1.48        4.15         1.17        4.46         0.81         1.84        1,73        5.59
Arriers enjour du chiffie daffairmJ  547         299         241          347         542          382         Big          358
INDICATEllRS                   RAERAK                                            RADEET                   RADEEJ
FINANCIERS                 1987    |   1994         1987        1995         1987        1994         1987        1995
Rodexploittion avant amortise   98.0%       116.6%      105.4%       79.1%        95.6%       98.6%       107.2%       116.6%
idexptoitetion aprs amortisse  104.1%       124.6%      117.2%       92.3%        97.4%       99.9%/.     116.7%       128.4%
R i'cuofinnent                 10.9%      -27.1%    -------- 60.8  -   -0.0%/0                0.0%       -85.6%       -21.1%
(ratiodendeftbmane         _ 13.4%         8.1%        13.1%        19.6%       34.7%        18.8%       28.8%        8.4%
R  Sevice de la deft              S.        -130.2%    -------1.6   -   -         60.4%       -132.8%      -38.4%      -225.1%
de ventb an gm     (DHlm3)         1.39        3.28                                                            *     | -
T  devenbend til a>Wm3)            2.72        5.93         1.23        3.11         1.74        3.42         2.06        4.52
An renjour du chifre caffaires  130       39          904          174         99           81          352         320



Page 1 of 21
TABLE 5D: COMPTES FINANCIERS
O   N   E  P       ---------
COMPTE DEXPLOITATION          1987       1988       1989  __1990         1991       1992      1993       1994      1995
_ _ _  _  _ __  _   _  __         _  _ -        _     I_     ____                      __   __   _ _   _ _  __    _
Revenu vente d'eau en grol     422.00    511.40     534.70 J   601.20 1 666.90      742.50     751.00    825.20     943.40
Revenu vente d'eau en det       78.00     90.90      99.80 i 123.70      137.00     168.50     190.80    240.90     277.60
____  ____ ____  ____ ____   _________ ---- -----                        ________ _-------   _______  _   ___     ---------
TOTAL REVENUS VENTES D'EA      500.00    602.30     634.50     724.90    803.90     911.00    941.80    1066.10    1221.00
_,_-    - - - - - - - - - -  _ _ _ - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - ___ _ I _ _ _ _ _ - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -_____
Taxe d'instalat/ redev.fil      53.60     61.60      65.60      66.0      82.0 _ 10.50         195.20    213.00      264.60
Surtaxe tarifaires              28.70     30.70      32.30      58.80     _72.30     87.30    250.60     281.20        320
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 6.                                                                    449       48___  _5__-
Charges capitalisees     _     23.60      27.40   _28.60        30.20 _   37.10      45.30      44.90     48.80       56.40
TOTAL PRODUITS              I 605.90 T   722.00     761.00     880.20 | 995.40     1194.10    1432.50   1609.10 j 1862.00
=    ______  _____  ________--   -------_                    _ __-_---- ----_----- ----- -----  __ =_ ---- -   _  ---------
C H A R G E S        & L      _|_i        -             -                           2          2                       8.8
Energie electrique & fuel      117.20    127.80     145.50     167.80     198.40    205.40     215.4050              268.8
Produit de traitement           16.80      18.70     25.40      37.30     41.10      41.00      48.70     39.50       39.8
Materiel et frais d'entre       29.50      33.70     35.40      45.20 1    56.20     74.50     102.10    133.40      139.6
Autres charges                  13.60 - _22.30 '     29.60      34.50      56.10  _  66.50 1    90.20     95.80      129.8
Impots et taxes _    _36.00               43.10 1    45.30    _ _0.00 1    0.00       0.00      14.10     16.10       17.4
TOTAL CHARGES DE PRODUCTI     213.10     245.60         2      284.80    351.80 |393.43        459.30    520.30     595.40
VALEURE AJOUTEE                392.80    476.40     479.80 4      595.40 |  643.60  800.67     973.20   1088.80    1266.60
Frais de personnel             132.90    149.20     160.10 1 171.30[     210.10     243.30 ' 283.30      326.90 1    377.70
Administration                  28.20 i   35.20      42.20      69.80     91.50     113.30     138.60    163.60      184.7
RESULTAT BRUT D'EXPLOITAT      231.70    292.00 1 277.50       354.30    342.00     444.07     551.30    598.30 T   704.20
Dotations aux ammortissem      153.32    154.34     169.91     178.80    195.96     217.85     292.10    330.30      388.5
Dotations aux provisions        13.33 L    8.64       16.4 j    32.30     67.75     107.40     113.80    140.60      109.4
Resultat net avant F.Fina       65.05    129.02      91.19 I 143.21        78.29    118.82     145.40    127.40     206.30
Frais financiers                86.70     85.32      86.58     130.49    167.65     189.21     225.10    236.41    218.795
-------------------------1---------!---------1---------1---------1---------1---------1--------- ---------1---------
Revenu net d'exploitation      -21.65 |   43.70       4.61      12.72    -89.36     -70.39     -79.70   -109.01     -12.50
(Pertes) et profits excep     -13.35     -59.20     -43.85    -44.37     -45.14      56.74       0.80     31.00    -168.75
Revenu apres per,te et. pro    -35.00    -15.50     -39.24     -31.65   -134.50     -13.65     -78.90    -78.01    -181.25
Impots sur les benefices    _                               _______r_                 4.76 |     3.36      2.90      3.256
Resultats net apres impot      -35.00    -15.50     -39.24 1 -31.65     -134.50 | -18.40       -82.26    -80.91    -184.50



Page 2 of 21
A C T I F           _     1987     1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993  1    1994  1   1995
__   _ _  _ _ _ __  _ _ _  __  _ __ _    _ _ _ _ I-_  _   _  ________            ____________________ _ _ _   _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
Immobilisations brutes      i 4115.51    4254.05 j 4709.31     4975.04    5672.69    6428.94    7481.93    8092.07 1    9871.50
Moins: ammortissem.cumule! 1241.79       1376.93    1525.59    1701.27 _1866.97      2099.89 I 2338.47     2673.76 i    3010.40
__  _ __________________  _________ I_      _ _ _I_    _ _ _ __________    _  _ _ _ __  _ _ _   _ __  _ _ _   _ __ $ _  _ _ _
IMMOBILISATIONS NETTES        2873.72    2877.12    3183.72 1 3273.77     3805.72    4329.05    5143.47    5418.31      6861.10
Travaux en cours      _        308.11     576.64     592.82     990.03     960.25    1056.82     925.99    1658.50 |1734.80
.. .. .__ _  ....__ I____   ___ _ _ _ _   ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - -----  , 
--------------------- =-                  ------------- -----------           ------------ ---------!---------
TOTAL IMMOBILISATIONS       r 3181.83    3453.76    3776.54    4263.80    4765.97    5385.87    6069.46    7076.81      8595.90
Autres valeures immobilisees              140.78     287.08      340.52    402.37     483.24     361.60     782.54       581.10
Prov.pour risque de changT     232.22     198.21     200.73      189.321   193.10 '217.21        236.41     171.02       109.24
_ _ ~ ~ ~~   ~ _ _ _ _ _  I_                                                                          _ _ _ _ _  ........
Bons Tresor                    164.24     297.17     345.16      328.53! 107.24        29.26      48.52       53.00  _
Stocks                          35.50      37.18      41.70        51.32i   74.40      69.96 1    88.80     107.35       107.09
Compte clients      3_7_377.72            450.96     584.40      673.861   758.30     880.11 i 1058.77     1125.40      1224.19
Autres debiteurs               425.95     234.13     478.75      282.02|   127.50     227.13 1 143.70       386.98 1     297.04
Disponibles     _               97.03     308.72     135.09      133.091   173.82      46.45 | 504.48       620.41       622.78
_______________________ ________,________ _________ _  ____ __________I_________I____          ____        _____
TOTAL ACTIF CIRCULANT         1100.44    1328.16    1585.10    - 1468.81j 1241.26    1252.90    1844.27    2293.14      2251.09
___________________  ___ __ __________________ _=____, _______________i________              ______________
TOTAL ACTIF                   4514.49    5120.91    5849.45     6262.45' 6602.71     7339.22    8511.74   10323.50    11537.34
_  _    =============_      ====_=_   =-______   _____L==-        __== __________ =======                    ============
Contrib.Etat regle par Bo         0.00    250.00     250.00      25O.001   250.00     250.00     250.00     250.00       250.00
Contribution Etat             2962.30    3253.25    3595.85     3788.511 4137.66 | 4438.54      4978.98    5549.97 |    6312.49
Contribution abonn6s           204.30     250.10     300.70      340.45    284.87     328.56     375.08     414.51       357.40
____________________________ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _____ _________ _________   _________  ___________  ._______________
TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS           3166.60    3753.35    4146.55     4378.961 4672.53     5017.10    5604.06    6214.48      6919.89
Reserve revaluation            156.82     182.42     177.46      196.85!   180.92     140.31 T   137.70     136.48       147.21
Resultat cumule                -571.66    -587.16    -626.40    -658.061   -792.56    -810.96i -893.22      -974.13    -1158.63
TOTAL   ______ CAPITAL_ 275176__         3348.61_  _____      _____j____ 406090      4346.4    _________ ______       ____
TOTAL CAPITAL ET RESERVES     2751.76    3348.61    3697.61     3917.75   4060.90    4346.45    4848.54    5376.83      5908.47
Dette a long terme             961.40 i 997.85      1117.59     1135.98, 1211.80     1344.60    1366.50    1491.90      1719.49
Echeance court terme dett      270.07      98.48     110.55      146.18    150.11     174.60     180.30     184.40       212.50
Fournisseurs                   531.26     675.97     923.70     1062.53   1179.90 i 1473.57 7   2116.40    3270.37      3308.49
Autres crediteurs                      _   -                 | -                              [                          388.39
TOTAL PASSIF CIRCULANT          801.3      774.5    1,034.3     1208.71   1,330.0    1,648.2    2,296.7    3,454.8      3909.38
I                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-------------------------T--------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ---- --------------
TOTAL PASSIF               4514.49    5120.91    5849.4-5    62 62 .45  6 602 .7 0  7 339 .22  8511.74 jl0323.50 i11537.34



Page 3 of 21
_______'___1987                 1988       1989      1990      1991  1    1992      1993 -    1994      1995
_________    ----------- --! ----      -                        -    ---------- --------- -------    --________
Revenu d'exploit.avant aml    218.37    283.36    261.10     322.00    274.25    336.67     434.15    454.80 1 591.54
(Pertes) et profits excep|   -15.14     -78.40 I -65.10     -47.48     -75.40     71.81    -52.72      35.99   -220.61
Moins:besoin Fonds de rou' -89.45      -128.61     182.77   -280.73   -358.03 | -118.97    -461.95   -722.47   -652.71
________________________---------------- --------- --------- -- ---J------- --------- --------- ---------
SOURCE INTERNE DE FINANCE:    292.68 1333.57       13.23     555.25    556.88    527.45    843.37    1213.26   1023.65
                     :__  .____                   _,__ _    _  _| _ _ _  _
- interets              86.70      85.32     86.58    130.49     167.65    189.21    225.10    236.41     218.80
- ammortissement     '  17.70   _108.73     110.56               150.11    174.60    180.30    184.40     212.50
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----- , - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --~-~   - - - - - - - - -  - - - _ _ _  - - - --_ _   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -
TOTAL SERVICE DETTE        I104.40 1 194.05        197.14    276.67    317.76    363.81     405.40    420.81    431.30
SOURCE INTERNE DE FINANCE     188.28    139.52   -183.91     278.58    239.12    163.64     437.97    792.45    592.35
Contribution Etat exercic|     50.15 1 599.55     370.24     232.90    248.74 i 262.76      550.54    570.21    653.14
Regul.arriere subv.par bo,                0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
Contribution abonnes           18.60     12.80      18.00  _  18.90     28.90     41.20      33.80     39.00     63.00
Retrait sur financement e     117.78    126.20    119.10     277.40    226.80 j 301.10      251.10    405.80    562.90
Taxe sur valeur ajoutee        17.70   -152.55    123.21    -104.82     30.67     61.73       4.34      6.96   -276.80
TOTAL RESSOURCES             392.51    725.52    446.64     702.96    774.23    830.43   1277.75    1814.41   1594.59
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E  M   P   L        O_I_S__ I
Investissements               358.19    513.84    620.26     704.97    733.50    957.80     819.73   1698.18   1592.52
Eguilibre par var.tresore      34.32    211.68   -173.62      -2.01     40.73   -127.37     458.03    116.23      2.07



Page 4 of 21
RAD - Compte de Gestion        1987      1988       1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
EAU                        (--                -      -- __
Ventes d'Eau                 257.25    283.79    340.39     351.82    420.31    458.01    561.55    577.48    667.32
Redevances et Prestations     10.35     10.63     10.21      12.01     13.20      9.82     13.10     12.26      9.81
Autres produits               10.52      9.11     10.96      12.53      7.80      6.78     28.49     10.90      5.52
Travaux par Entreprise        31.12     21.58     38.35      30.99    41.21      44.86     46.33     37.60     73.59
Total Produits             309.24    325.11    399.91    407.35    482.52     519.47   649.46     638.24    756.24
Variation des Stocks           6.51      6.81    -31.61     -9.70    -39.30      32.18      3.17      4.28    -11.96
Achats Matieres/Fournitur     34.0.4    19.13     61.59     39.79     81.20      22.37     46.70     33.75     49.74
Achats Eau                   225.27    259.38    266.32    299.04    328.01     367.41    437.55    477.78    531.25
Services consommes             8.12     15.91     14.37     26.90     20.19      17.31     13.73     18.91     72.73
Total charges Production    273.94    301.23    310.67    356.03    390.10    439.27    501.14    534.72     641.76
Valeure Ajoutee              35.30     23.88     89.24     51.32     92.42      80.19    148.32    103.52    114.48
Frais de Personnel            42.00     44.55     50.69     51.45     64.88      73.95     81.51     95.24    103.38
Impots et Taxes                1.59      2.38     15.37      2.66      1.40       3.40     2.88       2.24      2.26
Frais financiers               0.00      0.00      2.15      0.04      0.01      -0.75    -0.80      -2.55     -2.76
Resultat Brut d'Expl.        -8.29    -23.05     21.03     -2.83     26.13       3.60     64.74      8.59     11.60
Dotations aux Amortisseme     42.03     42.86     47.43     49.23     50.05      53.31     49.85     51.45     60.48
Dotations aux Provisions       2.81      2.83      3.60       3.06      3.35
Resultat Net Exploit.       -53.13    -68.74    -30.00    -55.12    -27.27    -49.71      14.89    -42.86    -48.87
Charges Financieres            1.74      6.08      6.51     10.64     14.01       8.83      9.70      6.34      5.79
P&P sur Ex. Ant. ou Exc.      -6.89     -2.97     -1.09      3.77      2.21      -7.37    99.29      59.59    -67.03
Resultat net Exercice       -47.98    -71.85    -35.42    -69.53    -43.49    -51.18    -94.10   -108.79      12.37
Impot sur resultats                                                              2.57      3.26       1.64      1.85
Resultat net apres Impot    -47.98    -71.85    -35.42    -69.53    -43.49     -53.75   -97.36   -110.43      10.52



Page 5 of 21
RAD - Comptes de Bilan         1987      1988      1989      1990       1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
Eau                   (---------------------------------- re ----------------------------------------------)
Anciennes Concessions         31.94     31.94     31.94     31.94     31.94     31.94      31.94     31.94     31.94
Nouvelles Immobilisations    650.95    687.87    745.46    804.66    862.99    926.64   1013.39   1078.01   1147.14
Amortissements cumules                                                                               51.45     54.82
Autres Valeurs Immobilise      0.60      0.75      0.64      0.10      0.10      0.10      0.10       0.10      0.10
Total Val. Immo.            683.49    720.56    778.04    836.70    895.03    958.68   1045.43    1058.60   1124.36
Valeurs d'Exploitation        54.08     47.27     78.88     88.58    127.88     95.70     92.53     88.25     100.21
Valeurs Realisables ( Com    498.16    637.25    751.59    897.47   1008.40   1160.08   1131.46     790.56    714.76
Autres Valeurs Realisable      3.37      5.08     45.53      5.16     24.14     29.35    113.79     126.33     58.48
Disponibles                                                                                                    38.02
TaV u rla 55   689.60---  876.00---  991.21--- 1160.42-- 1285.13-- 1337.78-- 1005.14--  873.45---
Total Valeurs realisable    555.61    689.60    876.00    991.21   1160.42   1285.13   1337.78    1005.14   873.45
Total Valeurs Real.& Dis    555.61    689.60    876.00    991.21   1160.42   1285.13   1337.78    1005.14   911.47
Total Actifs               1239.10   1410.16   1654.04   1827.91   2055.45   2243.81   2383.21    2063.74   2035.83
0.00
Participation des Villes      14.57     14.57     14.57     14.57     14.57      14.57    14.57    232.93     270.26
Autres investissements       432.75    431.75    488.27    475.29    544.78     543.98    565.89
Fonds de travaux            -110.57    -64.85    -72.89    -12.20    -29.47     24.60     65.23
Fonds de renouvellement        4.03      3.10      3.88      5.89      4.67      5.09       6.60
Participations des Abonne    331.13    361.82    404.95    492.08    527.78    627.46    715.58    769.82     855.99
Reports a Nouveau            -47.98   -119.83   -155.25   -224.78   -268.27   -322.01   -419.37   -110.43     -99.91
Totaux Fonds Propres        623.93    626.56    683.53    750.85    794.06    893.69    948.51    892.32   1026.34
Dettes a Long Termes          56.71     72.96     68.41    108.17     91.00     76.50      62.76     51.30     55.50
O.N.E.P                      140.85    155.30    209.94    283.28    321.54    406.96     518.31    583.60    538.23
Autre Crediteurs              23.68     34.11     52.93     75.66     92.55     119.62    194.18     85.50    203.20
Regularisations Passifs       56.99     87.70     83.40     96.68    115.46     135.22   283.75     211.88    139.45
Decouverts/cessions inter    336.94    433.53    555.83    513.27    640.85    611.83    375.71     239.15     73.11
Total dettes a c.t.         529.54    529.54    529.54    529.54    529.54    661.80    996.24     880.98    880.88
Total Dettes a c.t.dec.     558.46    710.64    902.10    968.89   1170.39   1273.63   1371.95    1120.13    953.99
Total Passifs              1239.10   1410.16   1654.04   1827.91   2055.46   2243.81   2383.21   2063.74   2035.83



Page 6 of 21
RAD - Cash Flow (Eau)          1987      1988     1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
----------------------------- reel -----------------
Resultats nets apres impo   -47.98    -71.85    -35.42    -69.53    -43.49    -53.75    -97.36  -110.43     10.52
Plus Dotations aux Amorti    42.03     42.86     47.43     49.23     50.05     53.31     49.85    51.45     60.48
Plus charges Financieres      1.74      6.08      6.51     10.64     14.01      8.83      9.70     6.34      5.79
Generation interne     -4.21    -22.91     18.52     -9.66     20.57      8.39   -37.82    -52.64     76.78
Variation des besoins en    334.09     78.40    117.24      5.86     95.29     -7.54   -281.79  -217.38   -131.60
Service de la Dette           1.74     11.27     13.02     24.62     31.18     24.32     26.33    26.93     21.81
Generation nette de -340.04    -112.58   -111.74    -40.14   -105.90     -8.39   217.65    137.81    186.57
Participation des Abonnes   331.13     30.69     43.13     87.13     35.70     99.68     88.13    54.24     32.17
Emprunts                     56.71     21.45      1.96     53.75      0.00      1.00    -16.63     9.13      2.22
Subventions                 451.35     -1.93     57.30    -10.97     68.27     -0.04     23.43
Autres ressources (reinte -110.57      45.72     -8.04     60.69    -17.27      0.38     14.21              56.71
Total Fonds disponi   388.58    -16.65    -17.39    150.46    -19.20     92.63   326.78    201.18    277.68
Nouveaux Investissements    725.52     79.93    104.91    107.89    108.38     66.77     86.75    64.59     73.62
Autres Emplois                                                                 -3.11      3.92               0.00
Variation de tresor -336.94     -96.58   -122.30     42.57   -127.58     28.97   236.11    136.59    204.06



Page 7 of 21
RED Compte de Gestions (Eau)        1988       1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
Ventes d'Eau                      117.79    127.32     163.32    178.01    196.11    243.98    281.69    333.16
Travaux et Prestations              5.29      5.55       5.83      6.15      6.47      6.73      6.75      5.90
Autres produits                     1.02      0.77      0.65       0.74      0.63      2.35      3.22      5.06
Travaux fait par Entreprise        28.61     25.88     21.83     22.19      25.52     48.06     55.60     49.36
Total                     152.71    159.52    191.63    207.09    228.73    301.13    347.26    393.48
Variation des Stocks               -6.42      1.90      2.64      -3.65     -9.53      5.89      6.36      8.85
Achats de Matieres et Fournitu     31.73     20.98      12.65     21.18     31.06     24.70     15.00     24.90
Achats Eau                         91.21     97.32     118.21    129.05    139.50    177.38    190.34    227.43
Services consommes                  8.60      5.58      9.24       7.39      8.95     23.54     38.56     19.46
Total charges Prod.       125.12    125.78    142.74    153.97    169.98    231.51    250.26    280.64
Valeure Ajoutee            27.59     33.74     48.89     53.12     58.75     69.62     97.01    112.84
Frais de Personnel                 24.05     27.99      29.45     36.05     39.24     43.49     48.50     51.97
Impots et Taxes                     0.09      0.09      0.09       0.09      0.09      0.09      0.09      0.11
Frais financiers                   -2.46     -3.07     -2.07      -1.79     -1.37     -1.70     -2.41
Resultat Brut d'Expl.      5.91      8.73     21.42     18.77     20.79     27.74     50.83     60.77
Dotations aux Amortissements       24.58     24.45      26.47     28.82     29.79     32.90     36.20     41.36
Dotations aux Provisions
Resultat Net Exploit.    -18.67    -15.72     -5.05    -10.05     -9.00     -5.16     14.64      19.41
Charges Financieres                 5.36      8.17       7.45      7.09      6.07      9.55      3.62      6.90
P&P sur Ex. Ant. ou Exc.           -0.15      0.37      0.77      -1.04     -0.12     -1.45     -0.79      6.33
Resultat net Exercice    -23.88    -24.26    -13.27    -16.10    -14.95    -13.25     11.81       6.18
Impot sur resultats                                     1.34       1.01      1.17      1.37      0.81      0.92
Resultat net apres Im    -23.88    -24.26    -14.61    -17.11    -16.12    -14.62     11.00       5.26



Page 8 of 21
RED - Comptes de Bilan (Eau)       1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993      1994     1995
Anciennes Concessions            463.06    505.86    544.32   580.75    621.27    680.87    755.06   828.49
Nouvelles Immobilisations
Amortissements
Autres Valeurs Immobilisees
Total Val. Immo.        463.06    505.86    544.32   580.75    621.27    680.87   755.06    828.49
Valeurs d'Exploitation            46.32     44.42     41.78    45.43     54.94     49.05     42.70    33.84
Valeurs Realisables ( Compte C   153.10    146.33    183.14   226.39    252.56    257.80    221.30   216.28
Autres Valeurs Realisables        47.11     43.74     40.02    39.63     40.23     48.97     50.24    29.00
Disponibles                       14.35     20.71     14.87     4.98      2.88      0.71     79.59    53.06
Total Valeurs realisa   246.53    234.49    264.94   311.45    347.73    355.83   314.24    279.12
Total Valeurs Real.&    260.88    255.20    279.81   316.43    350.61    356.53   393.83    332.18
Total Actifs            723.94    761.06    824.13   897.18    971.88   1037.40  1148.88   1160.67
Participation des Villes         509.28    549.82    583.69   622.91    671.40    724.86    790.67   646.60
Autres investissements
Fonds de travaux                 -15.32    -40.60    -63.59   -84.07   -114.17   -137.41   -181.83
Fonds de renouvellement
Participations des Abonnes        51.94     92.69    149.80   186.97    243.38    277.05    331.22   371.22
Reports a Nouveau                -23.88    -48.14    -62.75   -79.86    -95.98   -110.60    -99.60   -94.34
Totaux Fonds Propres    522.02    553.77    607.15   645.95    704.63    753.90   840.46    923.48
Dettes a Long Termes              68.85     69.12     81.00    72.64     66.85     58.05     50.55    50.06
O.N.E.P.                           7.30     23.24     19.01    20.72     49.45     31.91     32.97    60.84
Autre Crediteurs                  24.03     24.62     32.13    40.45     32.17     38.90     50.95    34.48
Regularisations Passifs            7.11      6.06      8.70    11.87     10.96     10.37      6.52
Decouverts                        94.63     84.25     76.14   105.55    107.82    144.28    167.44    91.81
Total D.C.T. # decouv    38.44     53.92     59.84    73.04     92.58     81.17    90.44     95.32
Total Dettes Court Te   133.07    138.17    135.98   178.59    200.40    225.45   257.88    187.13
Total Passifs           723.94    761.06    824.13   897.18    971.88   1037.40   1148.89  1160.67



Page 9 of 21
RED - Cash Flow (Eau)               1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
Resultats nets apres impots       -23.88    -24.26    -14.61    -17.11    -16.12    -14.62     11.00      5.26
Plus Dotations aux Amortisseme     24.58     24.45     26.47     28.82     29.79     32.90     36.20     41.36
Plus charges Financieres            5.36      8.17      7.45      7.09      6.07      9.55      3.62      6.90
Generation interne de fo      6.06      8.36     19.31     18.80     19.74     27.83     50.81    53.52
Variation des besoins en F.R.     208.09    -27.52     24.53     33.31     16.74     19.50    -50.86    -39.99
Service de la Dette                13.59     18.94     20.92     18.21     17.42     22.27     18.35      6.90
Generation nette de fond -215.62       16.94    -26.14    -32.72    -14.42   -13.95      83.32    86.61
Participation des Abonnes          51.94     40.75     57.11     37.17     56.41     33.67     42.30     40.00
Emprunts                           10.49     11.04     25.36      2.76      5.56      3.92      7.22     -0.49
Subventions
Autres ressources (reintegrati    120.97     15.26     10.88     18.74     18.39
Total Fonds disponibles     -32.22     83.99     67.21     25.95     65.94     23.65    132.84   126.12
Nouveaux Investissements           48.06     67.25     64.93     65.25     70.31     62.31     77.11     70.86
Autres Emplois                                                                                            6.18
Variation de tresorerie     -80.28     16.74      2.28    -39.30     -4.37    -38.66     55.73    49.09



Page 10 of 21
RAK - Compte de Gestions (Eau)      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
Ventes d'Eau                       15.99     16.91     21.69     22.64     27.26     30.95     37.42     49.33
Travaux et Prestations              1.19      1.37      1.46      1.81      1.45      1.34      1.35      1.78
Autres produits                     0.22      0.17      0.18      0.31      0.41      0.71      1.32      2.26
Travaux fait par Entreprise        11.48     11.82     10.87     16.07     20.51     25.30     17.59     17.62
Total                      28.88     30.27     34.20     40.83     49.63    58.30     57.69     71.00
Variation des Stocks                0.80     -4.56     -0.57     -1.54      0.84     -5.31      0.99      0.77
Achats de Matieres et Fournitu      5.30     10.56      5.88      8.25      7.18     13.26     18.77     18.98
Achats Eau                          8.32     10.30     12.71     13.40     13.40     10.97     13.30     14.83
Services consommes                 10.71     11.02     11.89     15.03     19.63     21.91      5.20      6.03
Total charges Prod.        25.13     27.32    29.91      35.14    41.05     40.83     38.26     40.61
Valeure Ajoutee             3.75      2.95      4.29      5.69      8.58    17.46     19.43     30.39
Frais de Personnel                  5.63      6.11      6.83      9.17     10.66     12.35     14.42     15.72
Impots et Taxes                     0.00      0.00      0.04      0.03      0.01      0.01      0.01     0.01
Frais financiers                   -0.31     -0.09     -0.01     -0.01     -0.09               -0.18     -0.20
Resultat Brut d'Expl.     -1.57     -3.07    -2.57      -3.50    -2.00      5.10      5.18     14.86
Dotations aux Amortissements        3.39      3.98      4.61      5.11      5.95      6.88      7.90      9.41
Dotations aux Provisions                                                    0.00
Resultat Net Exploit.    -4.96      -7.05    -7.18     -8.61     -7.95     -1.78     -2.72      5.45
Charges Financieres                 0.42      0.79      0.71      0.82      0.43      0.38      1.58      1.24
P&P sur Ex. Ant. ou Exc.            0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.59      0.38      0.06
Resultat net Exercice    -5.38      -7.84    -7.89  .  -9.43     -8.38     -4.76     -4.67      4.16
Impot sur resultats                                                         0.00
Resultat net apres Im    -5.38      -7.84    -7.89     -9.43     -8.38     -4.76     -4.67      4.16



Page 11 of 21
RAK - Comptes de Bilan (Eau)       1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993      1994     1995
Anciennes Concessions             61.50     72.96     84.78    83.67     94.63    109.20    135.02   159.96
Nouvelles Immobilisations         11.48     11.82     10.87    16.07     20.53
Amortissements                     3.39      7.37     11.98     5.11      5.95
Autres Valeurs Immobilisees                                               0.00
Total Val. Immo.         69.59     77.41     83.67    94.63    109.21    109.20    135.02   159.96
Valeurs d'Exploitation             7.17     11.73     12.30     13.84    13.00     18.31     17.32    16.55
Valeurs Realisables ( Compte C    43.11     32.52     30.20    28.86     31.25     28.06     25.90    25.38
Autres Valeurs Realisables         3.89      4.20      4.32     5.17      6.15      7.49      8.36     8.20
Disponibles                                                               0.00      0.00               0.00
Total Valeurs realisa    54.17     48.44     46.82    47.87     50.40     53.86     51.58    50.12
Total Valeurs Real.&     54.17     48.44     46.82    47.87     50.40     53.86     51.58    50.12
Total Actifs            123.76    125.85    130.49   142.50    159.61    163.06    186.59   210.08
Participation des Villes et Em    31.52     31.52     31.52    31.52     31.52     10.36     10.36    10.36
Autres investissements
Fonds de travaux                   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Fonds de renouvellement                                                                       2.38     2.61
Participations des Abonnes        63.99     61.17     69.86    90.93    110.94     90.31    108.54   123.37
Reports a Nouveau                 -5.38    -13.22    -21.11   -30.54    -38.92    -37.69    -42.36   -38.20
Totaux Fonds Propres     90.13     79.47     80.27    91.91    103.54     62.98     78.91    98.15
Dettes a Long Termes              11.04     10.33      9.50     8.39      7.46     11.95     11.07    23.89
O.N.E.P                            2.42      6.31     13.00     11.93    13.40      3.12      8.03     4.50
Autre Crediteurs                   3.10      2.70      7.35      7.74     9.07     54.45     16.68     16.78
Regularisations Passifs           11.78     11.18      9.57     7.71      7.02      3.75     49.73    47.69
__ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -
17.30     20.19     29.92    27.38     29.49     61.31     74.44    68.97
Decouverts                         5.29     15.87     10.79     14.81    19.12     26.81     22.18     19.07
Total Dettes a court     22.59     36.05     40.71    42.19     48.61     88.12     96.61    88.05
Total Passifs           123.76    125.85    130.48  .142.50    159.61    163.06    186.59   210.08



Page 12 of 21
RAK - Cash Flow Eau                 1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
Resultats nets apres impots        -5.38     -7.84     -7.89     -9.43     -8.38     -4.76     -4.67      4.16
Plus Dotations aux Amortisseme      3.39      3.98      4.61      5.11      5.95      6.88      7.90     9.41
Plus charges Financieres            0.00      0.78      0.71      0.82      0.43      0.38      1.58      1.24
Generation interne de fo     -1.99     -3.08     -2.57     -3.50     -2.00     2.51      4.81     14.81
Variation des besoins en F.R.      36.88     -8.62    -11.35      3.59      0.42    -28.36    -15.41      4.01
Service de la Dette                 0.00      1.49      1.55      1.93      1.45      1.87      5.45     2.92
Generation nette de fond    -38.86      4.06      7.23     -9.02     -3.87    29.00     14.76      7.87
Participation des Abonnes          63.99     -2.82      8.69     21.07     20.01    -20.63     18.23     14.84
Emprunts                           11.04      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.09      4.49      5.20     14.51
Subventions                        31.52      0.00      0.00      0.00
Autres ressources (reintegrations)                                                              0.58      0.24
Total Ponds disponibles      67.69      1.23     15.93     12.05     16.23    12.86     38.77     37.46
Nouveaux Investissements           72.98     11.82     10.87     16.07     20.53     20.53     34.14     34.35
Autres Emplois                                0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Variation de tresorerie      -5.29    -10.59      5.05     -4.02     -4.30    -7.67      4.63      3.11



Page 13 of 21
RADEEM -   Compte de Gestions (Eau)        1988       1989      1990       1991      1992       1993      1994       1995
Ventes d'Eau                              16.84      19.00     20.37      20.94     25.93      26.86     33.11      42.65
Travaux et Prestations                     4.21       3.53      1.72       2.30      3.51       0.84      0.71       1.82
Autres produits                            0.17       0.33      0.20       0.23      0.28       0.62      0.49       1.58
Travaux fait par Entreprise                4.70       5.64     10.08      15.07     17.21      17.64     18.15      24.50
Total                            25.92      28.50     32.37      38.54     46.94      45.96     52.47      70.55
Variation des Stocks                       0.54      -2.26     -0.92       1.01     -1.65      -0.30     -2.16       1.02
Achats de Matieres et Fournitures          4.73       7.85      6.94       7.53     10.24      13.43     14.76       6.78
Achats Eau                                 1.79       3.59      3.74       3.52      4.69       8.57     11.73      22.36
services consommes                         1.04       0.71      3.10       5.02      7.30       3.90      7.24      13.89
Total charges Prod.               8.10       9.89     12.86      17.08     20.59      25.61     31.57      44.05
Valeure Ajoutee                  17.82      18.61     19.51      21.46     26.35      20.35     20.89      26.50
Frais de Personnel                         7.31       8.46     12.74      16.04     17.06      18.34     21.84      23.10
Impots et Taxes                            0.18      0.20       0.19       0.34      0.31       0.31      0.36       0.38
Frais financiers                          -0.58     -0.43      -0.49      -0.43     -0.43      -0.95     -1.39      -1.50
Resultat Brut d'Expl.           10.91      10.38      7.07       5.51      9.41       2.65      0.09       4.52
Dotations aux Amortissements               3.20       3.33      3.49       3.73      4.74       5.82      6.70       6.86
Dotations aux Provisions
Resultat Net Exploit.            7.71       7.05      3.58       1.78      4.67      -3.17     -6.61      -2.34
Charges Financieres                        2.89       2.62      2.29       1.95      1.90       1.83      5.22       2.03
P&P sur Ex. Ant. ou Exc.                   0.90     -1.93       0.99       2.14      2.11.     -2.98      0.50       0.25
Resultat net Exercice            3.92       6.36      0.29      -2.31      0.66      -2.03    -12.33      -4.62
Impot sur resultats                                                                                                  0.09
Resultat net apres Impots        3.92       6.36      0.29      -2.31      0.66      -2.03    -12.33      -4.71
=================S=======                           ===       =======:==



Page 14 of 21
RADEEM-Comptes de Bilan (      1988      1989      1990       1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
Anciennes Concessions        138.61    145.59    156.72    196.57    220.74    246.19    262.33     294.33
Nouvelles Immobilisations
Amortissements                 3.20      6.53     10.02      13.75     18.49
Autres Valeurs Immobilise      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01
Total Val. Immo.    135.42    139.07    146.71    182.83    202.26    246.19    262.33    294.33
Valeurs d'Exploitation         9.45     11.71     12.62     11.62     13.26      13.55     15.72     14.70
Valeurs Realisables (Comp     40.02     46.77     40.27     46.50      71.35     74.81     60.51     49.81
Autres Valeurs Realisable      3.74      4.62     10.45      8.12      4.67       3.20      3.09
Disponibles                   22.24     26.23     32.96     34.92     21.08      47.06     44.29     26.20
Total Valeurs re     53.21     63.10     63.34     66.24     89.28     91.56     79.32     64.51
Total Valeurs Re     75.45     89.33     96.30    101.16    110.36    138.62    123.61     90.71
Total Actifs       210.87     228.40    243.01    283.99    312.62    384.82    385.94    385.04
Participation des Villes
Autres investissements        60.96     62.11     65.09     95.79     86.23      86.03    119.98    127.16
Fonds de travaux              25.30     23.55     19.55    -11.96     -3.39     29.60
Fonds de renouvellement
Participations des Abonne     76.71     84.84     98.86    108.01    141.73     182.57   206.64     226.34
Reports a Nouveau              3.92     10.28     10.58      8.27      8.65      -2.03   -14.35     -19.06
Totaux Fonds Pro   166.89     180.78    194.08    200.11    233.22    296.17    312.27    334.44
Dettes a Long Termes          29.47     27.10     23.52     19.03     18.53     21.65     23.44      25.15
O.N.E.P.                       0.20      0.72      1.67      *1.06      1.43      3.66      4.02      2.00
Autre Crediteurs               8.36     11.64     14.56     46.02     41.71      42.77     16.31      9.00
Regularisations Passifs        5.95      8.16      9.18     17.77     17.73     20.56      29.90     14.45
Decouverts                                                             0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
otl____1 5   20.52----  25.4_____  64.85----  60____87_  66----99-  50.23----  25______5
Total D.C.T. # d     14.51     20.52     25.41     64.85     60.87     66.99     50.23     25.45
Total Dettes Cou       14.51   20.52     25.41     64.85     60.87     66.99     50.23     25.45
Total Passifs      210.87     228.40    243.01    283.99    312.62    384.82    385.94    385.04



Page 15 of 2:
RADEEM-Cash Flow (Eau)         1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -
Resultats nets apres impo      3.92      6.36      0.29     -2.31      0.66     -2.03    -12.33     -4.71
Plus Dotations aux Amorti      3.20      3.33      3.49      3.73      4.74      5.82      6.70      6.86
Plus charges Financieres       2.89      2.62      2.29      1.95      1.90      1.83      5.22      2.03
Generation interne      10.01     12.31      6.08      3.37      7.30      5.62    -0.41      4.18
Variation des besoins en      38.70      3.88     -4.65    -36.54     27.02     -3.84      4.52      9.97
Service de la Dette            2.90      7.62      7.96      7.65      8.05      5.62     -0.42      8.89
Generation nette de    -31.59      0.81      2.77     32.26   -27.76       3.85    -4.51    -14.68
Participation des Abonnes     76.71      8.13     14.02      9.15     33.72     40.84     24.07     19.70
Emprunts                      29.47      2.62      2.08      1.21      5.38      3.12      1.79      1.71
Subventions                                                                    -10.68    -12.33
Autres ressources (reinte     86.26     -0.60     -1.02     -0.81     -0.99     32.79      4.35      7.18
Total Fonds disponi    160.85     10.96     17.85    41.81      10.35    69.92     13.37     13.91
Nouveaux Investissements     138.61      6.98     11.13     39.85     24.17     43.93     16.14     32.00
Autres Emplois
Variation de tresor     22.24      3.98      6.72      1.96   -13.82     25.99     -2.77    -18.08



Page 16 of 21
FES- Compte de Gestion      1988      1989     1990    1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
Ventes d'Eau               40.87     50.04    62.76   65.92     83.08    109.75    133.50    152.88
Travaux et Prestations      7.21      4.03     3.72     5.00     6.41      4.79      5.26      2.65
Autres produits             0.17      0.15     1.23    0.63      0.36      0.43      0.50      0.82
Travaux fait par Entre      5.73      8.90    11.37   23.19     30.98     22.16     23.12     37.78
Total             53.98     63.12    79.08    94.74    120.82    137.12    162.37    194.12
Variation des Stocks        0.06     -1.99   -8.45     3.68     -4.42     -3.51     -4.81      3.76
Achats de Matieres et       7.02     11.50    18.28    15.87    28.55     21.11     22.53     19.08
Achats Eau                 29.81     33.62   48.20     55.68    60.46     76.85     85.95    109.10
Services consommes          8.17     10.96   14.53    21.42     25.55     24.93     25.66     11.97
Total charges     45.06     54.09    72.57    96.65    110.14    119.38    129.32    143.91
Valeure Ajoute     8.92      9.03     6.51    -1.91     10.68     17.74     33.05     50.22
Frais de Personnel         10.15    11.29    12.85    12.75     17.20     18.77     23.22     26.22
Impots et Taxes            0.02      0.02     0.02     0.00      0.05      0.02      0.02      0.09
Frais financiers          -0.80     -0.54    -0.51    -0.45     -1.08     -1.05     -1.44     -2.89
Resultat Brut    -0.46     -1.75    -5.86   -14.21     -5.49      0.00     11.25     26.80
Dotations aux Amortiss     12.86     15.17    16.33   11.78     13.67     16.97     21.94     24.08
Dotations aux Provisions
Resultat Net    -13.32    -16.92   -22.19   -25.99    -19.16    -16.96    -10.68      2.72
Charges Financieres        2.42      2.44     2.58     2.63      5.25      5.17      7.51      6.56
P&P sur Ex. Ant. ou Ex     0.46      0.43      1.06    2.29      4.32      1.92      2.28     -2.70
Resultat net    -16.20    -19.79   -25.83   -30.91    -28.73    -24.05    -20.48     -1.14
Impot sur resultats                                                                            0.43
Resultat net    -16.20    -19.79   -25.83   -30.91    -28.73    -24.05    -20.48     -1.57



Page 17 of 21
FES Comptes de Bilan (      1988      1989     1990     1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
Immobilisations Brutes    175.53    212.81   263.79   309.86    375.99    423.35    490.75    568.11
Nouvelles Immobilisations
Amortissements             60.31     75.48    91.81   103.59    117.26    134.23    153.38    177.46
Autres Valeurs Immobil      0.02      0.02     0.02     0.02      0.02      0.02      0.02      0.02
Total Val. Im   115.24     137.35   172.00   206.29    258.74    289.14    337.39    390.67
Valeurs d'Exploitation     11.94     13.92    22.36    18.68     23.28     26.60     29.64     33.40
Valeurs Realisables (C     79.48     83.43   111.68   131.08    159.98    178.20    189.14    184.42
Autres Valeurs Realisa      6.82      5.76     6.06     5.44      1.18      1.41      9.77     10.25
Disponibles                16.94      8.87     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
TtlVer_9.   103.11--- 140.09-- 155.19--  184.44---  206.21---  228.55---  228.06---
Total Valeurs    98.24     103.11   140.09   155.19    184.44    206.21    228.55    228.06
Total Valeurs   115.18     111.98   140.09   155.19    184.44    206.21    228.55    228.06
Total Actifs    230.43     249.33   312.10   361.48    443.18    495.35    565.93    618.73
Fonds de Dotation           0.60      0.60     0.60     0.60      0.60      0.60      0.60
Autres investissements      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Fonds de travaux           82.51     87.18    98.39   107.92    109.99    102.43    112.64    103.70
Fonds de renouvellemen
Participations des Abo    105.99    135.29   161.52   189.26    228.54    274.37    291.11    313.05
Reports a Nouveau         -16.20    -35.98   -61.81   -92.72   -121.45   -145.50   -165.98   -167.55
Totaux Fonds    172.90     187.08   198.69   205.05    217.67    231.90    238.37    249.20
Dettes a Lonq Termes       26.02     24.36    28.01    46.53     48.72     55.89     49.26     78.93
O.N.E.P.                   12.21     18.47    26.28    20.68     39.04     66.48     83.46    138.50
Autre Crediteurs           18.90     15.73    23.46    34.11     44.23     51.46     40.80     19.28
Regularisations Passif      0.40      3.70     2.52     0.32      3.54      1.73     25.15      2.16
Decouverts                  0.00      0.00    33.14    54.79     89.98     87.89    128.89    130.67
Total D.C.T.     31.51      37.89    52.26    55.11     86.81    119.66    149.42    159.94
Total Dettes     31.51      37.89    85.40   109.90    176.79    207.56    278.31    290.61
Total Passifs   230.43    249.34    312.10   361.48    443.18    495.35    565.93    618.73



Page 18 of 21
FES Cash Flow (Eau)         1988      1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1994      1995
Resultats nets apres i   -16.20    -19.79   -25.83   -30.91    -28.73    -24.05    -20.48     -1.57
Plus Dotations aux Amo     12.86     15.17    16.33    11.78    13.67     16.97     21.94     24.08
Plus charges Financier      2.42      2.44    2.58     2.63      5.25      5.17      7.51      6.56
Generation inter    -0.92     -2.18    -6.92   -16.50     -9.81     -1.92      8.97     29.07
Variation des besoins      66.74     -1.51   22.61     12.25    -2.45    -11.09     -7.41    -11.01
Service de la Dette         3.83     4.10     4.53      5.20     8.91     10.81     17.10     13.60
Generation nette   -71.48     -4.76   -34.06   -33.94    -16.27     -1.64     -0.72     26.48
Participation des Abon    105.99    29.30    26.23    27.73     39.28     45.83     24.05     21.93
Emprunts                    2.13      0.00     5.60    21.11      5.86    12.81      2.95     36.15
Subventions
Autres ressources (rei     83.11      4.67    11.21     9.54      2.07    -7.55     -7.55     -8.94
Total Fonds disp   119.75     29.21     8.98    24.44     30.94     49.45     18.73     75.62
Nouveaux Investissemen    115.24     37.28    50.98    46.07     66.12    47.37     59.75     77.40
Autres Emplois
Variation de tre     4.50     -8.07   -42.01   -21.63    -35.18      2.08    -41.02     -1.78



"**==>This document did not complete OCR process. <==**" 
