Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
RESTRUCTURING STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  08/12/2010 
Report No.:  AC5499
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Pakistan 
Project ID:  P077306 
Project Name:  Pakistan Tax Administration Reforms Project 
Task Team Leader:  Daniel Alvarez Estrada 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 19, 2004 
Estimated Board Date: December 7, 2004 
Managing Unit:  SASGP 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Central government administration (95%);Sub-national government 
administration (5%) 
Theme:  Tax policy and administration (40%);Trade facilitation and market access 
(40%);Administrative and civil service reform (20%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
24.40 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
78.50 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
23.10 
 
UK: British Department for International Development (DFID)  23.00
46.10 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the effectiveness, responsiveness, 
efficiency, integrity and fairness of tax administration; (b) to promote compliance with 
tax laws and broaden the tax base; and (c) to promote trade facilitation   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project will support the GoP#s efforts to revamp the tax administration system. It 
would support initiatives to redress major shortcomings in tax administration through 
investment in human resource and information technology, modernizing collection and 
audit procedures, fostering voluntary compliance, and strengthening the institutional 
framework for tax enforcement. The seven original project components comprise:  
 
Component 1: Management and Institutional Development: (a) Reorganization to 
facilitate efficient planning, execution and supervision of core administrative functions; 
(b) Develop/implement Human Resource Strategy; (c) Develop/implement a Staff 
Training Program; (d) Develop/implement and promote awareness of a Code of Conduct 
and Ethics; (e) Establish a specialized Internal Audit function; (f) Establish an Internal 
Page  2
Affairs and Vigilance function; and, (g) Develop/implement a Change Management 
Strategy.  
 
Component 2: Revenue Operations Improvement: Re-engineer Direct Tax, Sales Tax 
and Central Excise and Customs departments so as to move: (a) from a pure enforcement 
to a risk-based self assessment system of taxation founded on voluntary compliance; and, 
(b) move from an assorted to consistent organizational structures that are functionally-
based, automated, decentralized and modern.  
 
Component 3: Revenue Service Strengthening: Establish at the national level, separate 
functions for: (a) Tax audit; (b) Collection and Enforcement; (c) Appeals and Dispute 
Resolution; (d) Intelligence-gathering and Risk Management; and (e) Customs Fraud 
Investigation and Prosecution.  
 
Component 4: Tax Compliant Culture Creation Activities: Develop/implement IT 
systems to promote: (a) Taxpayer education and facilitation; (b) Taxpayer identification 
and registration; and, (c) Quality assurance and monitoring.  
 
Component 5: Information Technology Systems Upgrading: Facilitate a move from a 
highly manual to an automated environment: (a) Bring uniformity and a total systems 
solution to entire sales tax cycle; (b) Improve effectiveness and efficiency of tax 
administration; and, (c) Bring a total solution system to entire cycle of customs clearance.  
 
Component 6: Infrastructure Upgradation and Development: (a) Upgrade existing and 
develop/acquire new infrastructure and facilities; and (b) Meet transportation needs 
consistent with new functional and operational requirements.  
 
Component 7: Program Management: This component was expected to finance overall 
coordination by the PMU. The PMU#s responsibilities included reporting on project 
implementation, managing disbursement, procurement, and financial management, and 
monitoring and evaluation against established performance indicators.  
 
The four revised, consolidated components comprise: (i) Enforcement (including 
Audit); (b) Organization and Management for Efficiency; (c) Information Technology; 
and (d) Program Management and Implementation. All the original sub-components have 
been reflected in the proposed, revised four components.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The Project will cover the whole of Pakistan. It involves the refurbishment of several 
existing FBR buildings and facilities, and the construction of some new facilities on 
FBR-owned land. As a result of the latter activity, the operational policy on 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) will be triggered. The restructured TARP will 
correct the earlier rating on safeguards from C to B, to comply with Bank policy. The 
project has prepared and disclosed an Environmental Management Plan (EMP).   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Javaid Afzal (SASDI) 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Refurbishment of buildings include minor changes in the existing structures of the 
buildings like partitioning of rooms, tiling of existing floors, etc. and these activities will 
not result in any environmental impacts. Even for the new construction works, the 
impacts are more to be managed by good house-keeping like judicious use of water for 
construction, adequate handling of construction material, removal of construction debris 
and restoration of construction site.  Except for civil works at new locations (on FBR-
owned land), which will follow the requirements of the EMP, no significant adverse 
impacts are expected from the Project activities. For the ongoing civil works, FBR has 
agreed to include the EMP as an integral part of the agreements with the contractors, and 
to follow up on any environmental issues should they arise.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Not applicable   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The only other available option was to rent buildings in the cities where these guest-
houses are to be constructed, which would have its own complications. To minimize any 
adverse impacts, FBR will construct only on FBR-owned land which will not involve any 
resettlement issues, except insignificant environmental issues already described in the 
project EMP.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Provide an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures 
described: FBR has retained experienced consultants to supervise the civil works and 
follow up on EMP matters. FBR also has designated one of its officers as the 
Page  4
Environmental Focal Point who will coordinate with the supervision consultants and the 
contractor on the implementation of project EMP.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
This project only triggers OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment). However, 
commensurate with the project interventions, stakeholder consultations were held during 
the preparation/appraisal stages. The stakeholders include the following: (i) Staff of FBR, 
(ii) GoP agencies and autonomous bodies, (iii) accounting firms and bodies, (iv) tax 
lawyers, (v) trade associations, (vi) Federal and Provincial Chambers of Commerce, (vii) 
Private Sector businesses, (viii) individual taxpayers, and (ix) civil society at large. A 
series of consultations were held with these groups in different parts of the country to 
inform them about project design and its objectives and receive feedback. Regular 
consultations are also built-in as part of project design for disseminating information and 
assessing the impact.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/29/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
05/07/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
07/07/2010 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  5
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Daniel Alvarez Estrada 
08/10/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Javaid Afzal 
06/11/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sanjay Srivastava 
08/12/2010 
Comments:  cleared 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Joel Hellman 
05/30/2010 
Comments:   
Page  6
