Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC5577 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/08/2010 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Pakistan 
Project ID: P077306 
Project Name: Pakistan Tax Administration Reforms Project 
Task Team Leader: Daniel Alvarez Estrada 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 19, 2004 
Estimated Board Date: December 7, 2004 
Managing Unit: SASGP 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Central government administration (95%);Sub-national government 
administration (5%) 
Theme: Tax policy and administration (40%);Trade facilitation and market access 
(40%);Administrative and civil service reform (20%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
24.40 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
78.50 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
23.10 
 
UK: British Department for International Development (DFID)  23.00
46.10 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The project development objective (PDO) of the Tax Administration Reform Project (TARP) is 
to fundamentally reform the Central Board of Revenue (CBR, now renamed Federal Board of 
Revenue # FBR) for a more efficient and effective revenue administration system. The 
overriding objective is to raise tax revenue through improved compliance with tax laws and 
broadening of the tax base through: (a) Improving organizational efficiency and effectiveness of 
revenue administration; (b) Promoting compliance through strengthened audit and enforcement 
capacity and transparent and high quality tax services: (c) Improving trade facilitation through 
modern and internationally acceptable customs procedures; and (d) Improving integrity and 
fairness of tax administration.  
 
The PDO is proposed to be revised, the results indicators updated, the components streamlined 
and project activities prioritized # as summarized in the draft Restructuring Paper. The existing 
PDO is ambitious and difficult to measure. A simpler PDO has been agreed with the Government 
Page  2
of Pakistan (GoP) which will be easy to assess: #The project development objective is to 
increase the effectiveness of the revenue administration of Pakistan.#   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The Project will support the GoP#s efforts to revamp the tax administration system. It would 
support initiatives to redress major shortcomings in tax administration through investment in 
human resource and information technology, modernizing collection and audit procedures, 
fostering voluntary compliance, and strengthening the institutional framework for tax 
enforcement. The seven original project components comprise:  
 
Component 1: Management and Institutional Development: (a) Reorganization to facilitate 
efficient planning, execution and supervision of core administrative functions; (b) 
Develop/implement Human Resource Strategy; (c) Develop/implement a Staff Training 
Program; (d) Develop/implement and promote awareness of a Code of Conduct and Ethics; (e) 
Establish a specialized Internal Audit function; (f) Establish an Internal Affairs and Vigilance 
function; and, (g) Develop/implement a Change Management Strategy.  
 
Component 2: Revenue Operations Improvement: Re-engineer Direct Tax, Sales Tax and 
Central Excise and Customs departments so as to move: (a) from a pure enforcement to a risk-
based self assessment system of taxation founded on voluntary compliance; and, (b) move from 
an assorted to consistent organizational structures that are functionally-based, automated, 
decentralized and modern.  
 
Component 3: Revenue Service Strengthening: Establish at the national level, separate 
functions for: (a) Tax audit; (b) Collection and Enforcement; (c) Appeals and Dispute 
Resolution; (d) Intelligence-gathering and Risk Management; and (e) Customs Fraud 
Investigation and Prosecution.  
 
Component 4: Tax Compliant Culture Creation Activities: Develop/implement IT systems to 
promote: (a) Taxpayer education and facilitation; (b) Taxpayer identification and registration; 
and, (c) Quality assurance and monitoring.  
 
Component 5: Information Technology Systems Upgrading: Facilitate a move from a highly 
manual to an automated environment: (a) Bring uniformity and a total systems solution to entire 
sales tax cycle; (b) Improve effectiveness and efficiency of tax administration; and, (c) Bring a 
total solution system to entire cycle of customs clearance.  
 
Component 6: Infrastructure Upgradation and Development: (a) Upgrade existing and 
develop/acquire new infrastructure and facilities; and (b) Meet transportation needs consistent 
with new functional and operational requirements.  
 
Component 7: Program Management: This component was expected to finance overall 
coordination by the PMU. The PMU#s responsibilities included reporting on project 
implementation, managing disbursement, procurement, and financial management, and 
monitoring and evaluation against established performance indicators.  
 
The four revised, consolidated components comprise: (i) Enforcement (including Audit); (b) 
Organization and Management for Efficiency; (c) Customs Modernization; and (d) 
Program/Project Management. All the original sub-components have been reflected in the 
proposed, revised four components.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The Project will cover the whole of Pakistan. It involves the refurbishment of several existing 
FBR buildings and facilities, and the construction of some new facilities on FBR-owned land. As 
Page  3
a
result of the latter activity, the operational policy on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
will be triggered. The restructured TARP will correct the earlier rating on safeguards from C to 
B, to comply with Bank policy. The project has prepared and disclosed an Environmental 
Management Plan (EMP).   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
FBR has retained experienced consultants to supervise the civil works and follow up on EMP 
matters. FBR has also desingated one of its officers as the Environmental Focal Point who will 
coordinate with the supervision consultants and the contractor on the implementation of project 
EMP.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Javaid Afzal (SASDI) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
The project involves the refurbishment of several existing FBR buildings and facilities, and 
the construction of some new facilities on FBR-owned land. As a result, the operational policy 
on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) will be triggered. Refurbishment of buildings 
include minor changes in the existing structures of the buildings like partitioning of rooms, tiling 
of existing floors, etc. and these activities will not result in any environmental impacts. Even for 
the new construction works, the impacts are more to be managed by good house-keeping like 
judicious use of water for construction, adequate handling of construction material, removal of 
construction debris and restoration of construction site.  Except for civil works at new locations 
(on FBR-owned land), which will follow the requirements of the EMP, no significant adverse 
impacts are expected from the Project activities. For the ongoing civil works, FBR has agreed to 
include the EMP as an integral part of the agreements with the contractors, and to follow up on 
any environmental issues should they arise.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
Page  4
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  06/15/2010 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
An EMP has developed to provide stremilined environmental management prodedure for 
simple, small-scale building construction works, which are being carried out/ planned under 
the project. The EMP provides mitigation measures to address localized, low to medium 
intensity environmental impacts which are generally encountered during such construction 
works. The Bank received the EMP on April 29, 2010, and was disclosured "in-country" on 
May 7, 2010.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Daniel Alvarez Estrada 
06/10/2010 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sanjay Srivastava 
04/30/2010 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Joel Hellman 
05/30/2010 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
