                                   Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                      Report No: 56187-PK




                           RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                     ON A

                    PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                    OF THE

                  TAX ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT


                               CREDIT: 4007-PAK
                                LOAN: 7264-PAK
                               GRANT: TF 054392

                                 APRIL 7,2005


                                    TO THE

          GOVERNMENT OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN


                               AUGUST 19,2010




Governance and Public Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



BP       Bank Procedures
DfID     Department for International Development (UK)
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
FBR      Federal Bureau of Revenue
GoP      Government of Pakistan
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GST     General Sales Tax
HRM     Human Resource Management
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     International Development Association
ISP     Information System Plan
IT      Information Technology
ITMS    Information Technology Management System
LTU     Large Taxpayer Unit
MoF     Ministry of Finance
NTN     National Taxpayer Number
OP      Operational Policies
PDO     Project Development Objective
PKR     Pakistani Rupee
PMU     Project Management Unit
PRAL    Pakistan Revenue Automation Ltd
RTO     Regional Tax Office
SASGP   Governance and Public Sector Management Unit (South Asia Region)
SDR      Special Drawing Right
TA      Technical Assistance
TARP    Tax Administration Reform Project
TFC     Taxpayer Facilitation Center
VAT     Value Added Tax




           Regional Vice President:        Isabel M. Guerrero
                  Country Director:        Rachid Benmessaoud
           Sector Managermirector:         Joel Hellman / Ernest0 May
                 Task Team Leader:         Daniel Alvarez-Estrada

                                      11
                                            PAKISTAN
                               TAX ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT

                                                                 CONTENTS




A . SUMMARY                 ...........................................................................................................................   1
B. PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................                           2
  .
C PROPOSED CHANGES......................................................................................................                                  4
D . APPRAISAL SUMMARY                               ...................................................................................................   8
ANNEXES ......................................................................................................................................            9




                                                                            ...
                                                                           111
    Restructuring                                                                    Status: Submitted to SECPO
    Restructuring Type: Level one
    Last modified on date : O W 1 5/20 10



    Project ID & Name                                    P077306: Tax Administration Reform Project
    Countrv                                              Pakistan
    Task Team Leader                                     Daniel Alvarez Estrada
    Sector Manag.er/Director                             Joel Hellman
    Country Director                                     Rachid Benmessaoud
    Original Board Approval Date                         12/07/2004
    Original Closing Date:                               12/31/2009
    Current Closing Date                                 12/31/2010
    Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]                12/31/2011
    EA Category                                          C-Not Required
    Revised EA Category                                  B-Partial Assessment-Partial Assessment
    EA Completion Date
    Revised EA Completion Date




    BORR                                                                   23.10                            23.10
    DFID                                                                   23 .OO                           23.00
    IBRD                                                                   24.40                             0.12
    IDA                                                                    78.50                            50.78
    Total                                                                 149.00                            97.00




I   PAKISTAN                                I                                        I                              I


             Organization                                Department                              Location
I   Federal Board of Revenue                    I Tax Policy and Reform             I Pakistan




                                                               1
    2010                                                         0.00                                32.68
    201 1                                                        0.00                                32.68
                                                             Total                                   32.68


I 6.    Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies                                                                   1
    Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                N

    Does the restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, please select              Y
    from the checklist below and update ISDS accordingly before submitting the package.




    Pest Management (OP 4.09)
    Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.1 1)
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
    Involuntarv Resettlement (OP 4.12)
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
    Proiects in International Waters (OP 7.50)
I   Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)




    7a. Project Development 0bjectives/Outcomes
  OriginaVCurrent Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
  The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the effectiveness, responsiveness, efficiency, integrity and
  fairness of tax administration; (b) to promote compliance with tax laws and broaden the tax base; and (c) to
I promote trade facilitation

    7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes [if applicable]
    The project development objective is to improve the effectiveness of Pakistan#s revenue administration




                                                        ..
                                                        11
            PAKISTAN - TAX ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT

                                RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

1.      The proposed restructuring of the Tax Administration Reform Project (TARP -
IDA Cr. 4007-PAK, IBRD Ln. 7264-PAK, Grant no. TF 054392) addresses challenges
resulting from changes in the Federal Bureau of Revenue's (FBR) reform implementation
plan, other changes in governance realities on the ground and a hitherto slow pace of
project implementation. The proposed restructuring will:

0     Sharpen the Project Development Objective (PDO) and modify the project results
      indicators to reflect changed ground realities, enable better tracking of
      implementation progress and improve the possibility of sustainable achievement of
      development outcomes;
0     Realign project activities to conform to current revenue administration
      modernization and reform priorities included in an Action Plan adopted by the FBR
      with clear implementation benchmarks to improve project performance and achieve
      sustainable outcomes within a realistic time frame. Since its adoption in October
      2008, the Action Plan has proven to be an effective management tool for tax
      administration reform;
e     Cancel an amount of US$ 49.095 million' from the IBRD Loan (US$ 24.278
      million) and IDA Credit (US$ 24.817 million) to reflect changes in the FBR's
      information technology (IT) and automation strategy;
e     Reallocate remaining credit and grant proceeds to match revised project activities
      and costs;
0     Improve FBR project management through the appointment of well-trained and
      committed staff and consultants to considerably strengthen implementation
      capacity;
0     Classify the project as environmental category "B" and introduce measures to
      ensure compliance with OP/BP 4.0 1 (Environmental Assessment); and
e     Extend the closing date to December 3 1, 201 1 to support the renewed reform
      momentum on tax administration, improve revenue collection performance against
      the backdrop of the ongoing fiscal challenges, and increase the overall likelihood of
      achieving the PDO.

2.      The proposed restructuring comes in response to: (a) GoP's renewed commitment
to key revenue administration reforms and more effective project implementation (the
urgency of such reforms coming in response to Pakistan's recent macroeconomic
challenges); and (b) Bank management's commitment to support the Pakistan authorities'
efforts to increase tax compliance and revenue collection. The GoP has committed to a

  GoP requested cancellation of US$49.217 million on the assumption that the IBRD Loan amount of
US$24.4 million was available for cancellation. However, a front end fee of US$ 0.122 million was
charged by IBRD. Therefore, the amount to be cancelled from the Loan is US$24.278 million.
significant increase in tax revenues of 2 percentage points of GDP by 2012-132 from the
level of 2008/09, and is proceeding with renewed vigor with both tax policy and
administration reforms to make this possible. This includes introduction of a proposed
broad-based VAT or reformed GST3, reintroduction of tax audits, and strengthened
enforcement measures. This tax revenue increase is necessary to allow total expenditures
as a share of GDP to be maintained at the current level and thereby provide sufficient
resources for planned investments in social and physical infrastructure. The increased
urgency of revenue administration reforms coupled with the FBR's demonstrated actions
to enhance project performance (such as the Integrated Management System to monitor
taxpayer compliance, electronic filing of returns, and extensive cross-checking of
information) provide a strong justification for the proposed restructuring to support the
achievement of the revised PDO.

B. PROJECT STATUS

3.     TARP has been in problem status since 2007 due to: (a) implementation issues
leading to long delays and/or quality problems in TARP-financed activities; and (b)
policy issues that weakened the potential impact of TARP on the desired project
outcomes.

4.      Implementation problems arose due to an overly ambitious initial project design,
FBR management and capacity issues, and insufficient pro-activity by the World Bank
and DflD to respond to emerging and ongoing problems. Key implementation bottlenecks
included: (i) frequent changes in Project Management Unit (PMU) staff that undermined
continuity of project management, weakened implementation monitoring, slowed
procurement, and hindered financial management; (ii) weak technical specifications and
quality of bid documents for key IT procurements; (iii) lack of follow-up on physical
verification and tagging of assets and resolution of outstanding significant audit
observations leading to delays in disbursements; and (iv) an initial misclassification
(since corrected) of the project as environmental category C instead of B which led to
insufficient attention to full compliance with Bank OP/BP 4.01 on environmental
assessment.

5.      Policy issues also impacted project performance. First, the momentum for tax
administration reform weakened during the economic "boom" years as modest increases
in tax buoyancy reduced the urgency for fundamental changes in tax administration
performance. Progress particularly slowed in areas such as audit and enforcement. The
reform momentum was resuscitated in response to the fiscal challenges that confronted
Pakistan in 2008. Second, prolonged policy indecision by the FBR on an IT
modernization strategy (i.e. off-the-shelf acquisition vs. in-house development) and on
the roll-out of Customs automation led to a delay of more than two years in implementing
the procurement plan, and left an undisbursed balance of nearly US$50 million at the
original closing date. Third, slow progress on the functional integration of income, sales,
and excise taxes during most of the lifespan of TARP undermined the potential
effectiveness of improvements introduced through the project such as the introduction of

 At appraisal, the envisaged annual increase in revenues was estimated at 0.2 percent per annum.
 Subject to necessary legislation for VAT and amendment of the existing law for GST.
                                                   2
new business processes, IT systems, and an improved physical infrastructure for the
integrated network of Regional Tax Offices (RTOs) and Large Taxpayer Units (LTUs) -
all of which were designed to support a more functionally integrated tax administration.
Fourth, excessive focus on TAW implementation problems diverted attention from the
more important policy dialogue between the GoP and the World Bank on tax
administration reforms, while FBR management lacked a consistent and coordinated
approach to managing the internal reform process.

6.     Meanwhile, TARP has so far helped achieve the following significant results and
outputs:

     Introduction of a Universal Self-Assessment System for income tax;
     Implementation of a single national taxpayer number for all taxpayers;
     The operation of Taxpayer Facilitation Centers (TFCs) within the network of Large
     Taxpayer Units (LTUs) and Regional Tax Offices (RTOs);
     Merger of six Medium Taxpayer Units and refurbishment of nine Model Customs
     Collectorates;
     Introduction of a new set of user-friendly tax forms, guides and a modern web site
     to improve taxpayer facilitation;
     Development of IT systems to support core tax administration functions (data
     warehouse, e-portal, payments and refunds, taxpayer account, traffic management
     supervision);
     Development of an integrity strategy, including a taxpayer charter and a code of
     conduct and ethics; and
     Refixbishment of 21 Taxpayer Facilitation Centers; a Passenger and Trade
     Facilitation Center; upgrading of Directorates of Training and construction of 13
     Staff Transit Accommodation buildings.

        However, these outputs have not led to the desired outcome of enhanced revenue
performance. Though revenue performance has been affected by a number of variables -
not least of which is the slowdown in economic growth associated with Pakistan's
macroeconomic challenges - it has also been clear, from evidence on the number of non-
filers and stop-filers, that genuine improvements in tax administration reform have so far
been limited. And the new systems and infrastructure put into place under TARP have
not been utilized effectively. During the last twelve months, tax administration reform in
Pakistan has gained momentum under new FBR leadership and close oversight of the
Finance Minister. Noteworthy progress includes: (i) a major reorganization of the FBR
towards an integrated function-based tax administration; (ii) re-introduction of taxpayer
audits; (iii) strengthening of tax enforcement; and (iv) the launch of an electronic refund
system.

8.      Moreover, due to the passage of time, some reform priorities have changed and
other priorities have emerged. In August 2008, the Minister of Finance requested high-
level technical assistance (TA) on tax administration reform from the Bank, outside of the
TARP framework, to help develop an Action Plan to speed up reforms and advise on
options for the future of TARP. A TA team of international tax administration experts,
funded through a DFID Trust Fund, provided a comprehensive review of progress on tax
administration reforms, including measures supported through TARP. A detailed Action
                                            3
Plan was agreed with the FBR and adopted in October 2008 to serve as a monitoring
framework for the reform process, including enhanced focus to support integration of
income, sales and excise taxes. It was, inter alia, recommended to revise the TARP
budget and extend the date of final disbursement for World Bank project funds beyond
December 2009. Significant reform achievements arising from these initiatives, which
now require urgent support through TARP, include: (i) re-introduction of taxpayer audits
(with a new national audit plan and a new audit workflow); (ii) further strengthening of
tax enforcement; (iii) full implementation of the electronic refund system; (iv) change
management and human resources reform to support the implementation of the new
organizational structure and integrated functional mode of the FBR; (v) roll out of a new
centralized IT system; and (vi) refinement of the "White List" initiative to ensure
delivery of envisaged enforcement benefits.

9.     Internally, too, World Bank management of TARP was shifted to a newly formed
dedicated Governance and Public Sector Management Unit (SASGP) in July 2008. The
new management team proceeded to explore options for an early closure or restructuring
of TAW, which had been scheduled to close on December 3 1 2009. By June 2009, the
Government of Pakistan submitted a request to extend TARP for an additional two years
until December 3 1, 201 1 and to reduce the IBRD loan amount and IDA credit by
US$49.095 million to reflect the final decision to proceed with in-house development of
key IT systems. The Bank granted a three month extension to TARP until March 31,
2010 to allow for sufficient time to process a proposed project restructuring to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors for a full two-year extension of TARP.

10.     However, a Request for Inspection to the Bank's independent Inspection Panel
filed by officers of the Customs and Excise Group Association in January 2010 delayed
processing of project restructuring. The Inspection Panel's decision on April 6, 2010 not
to pursue further investigation of the Request and its recommendation to strengthen
support for more effective implementation of the FBR's organizational reforms has now
enabled the processing of TARP restructuring. In anticipation of the submission of a
Restructuring Paper, a temporary extension of the closing date until December 31, 2010
was approved by the Country Director. This has enabled continuation of ongoing
procurements and disbursements.

11.     Given the renewed urgency of the tax reform agenda, the GoP and the World
Bank agreed in May 2010 to consider an extension of the closing date to December 3 1,
20 11, to provide adequate time to complete project activities and enable the achievement
of a revised PDO and results framework.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

12.     The proposed restructuring is designed to produce a more focused project, with a
clearer, results-oriented development objective and relevant results indicators in line with
the FBR's own Action Plan and prioritized activities. The proposed restructured TARP
emphasizes the following areas critical to achieving more effective revenue results,
including: (i) actions to strengthen enforcement and resume audits; (ii) organization and

                                             4
management for increased efficiency; (iii) responsive IT systems; and (iv) project and
program management. The changes comprise:

        Modification of the PDO to read "The project development objective is to
        improve the effectiveness of Pakistan's revenue administration". The
        modification will conform to reform priorities and FBR's Action Plan.
        Revision of the project results indicators as indicated in Annex 1. This change
        reflects changed ground realities and will enable more effective measurement of
        project results;
        Realignment of project activities to conform to the FBR Action Plan (including
        internal adjustments in activities) - these have been reflected in the revised
        project cost and the updated Procurement Plan;
        Reduction of the overall IBRD Loan amount to reflect changes in the FBR's IT
        and automation strategy, and reallocation of loan, credit and grant funds to
        finance the revised project activities and costs;
        Classification of the project as environmental category "B", to fully conform to
        OP/BP 4.0 1 (Environmental Assessment), and inclusion of measures to ensure
        safeguard compliance;
        100 per cent financing of eligible expenditures from IDA Credit and the DfID
        Grant, for all expenditure categories. (This is in recognition of the constraints
        posed by the current fiscal challenges in Pakistan and the paucity of counter-part
         fund^)^;
        A single disbursement category to simplifl disbursements under previous
        expenditure categories within the overall amounts available under both the IDA
        Credit and the DfID Grant, to avoid further amendments in the legal agreement;
        and
        Extension of the closing date until December 3 1,20 11.

       The total savings for T A W are estimated at US$49.095 million. The Government
has requested that the full outstanding unwithdrawn amount of the IBRD loan, equivalent
to US$24.278 million5, and a partial outstanding unwithdrawn amount of the IDA credit,
equivalent to US$24.817 million, be cancelled. This cancellation will be effective as of
June 23,2009, the date on which the GoP's request letter was received by the Bank.

0   Project's Development Objectives

14.     Proposed PDO: "The project development objective is to improve the
effectiveness of Pakistan's revenue administration".

15.    Initial PDO: "The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the effectiveness,
responsiveness, efficiency, integrity and fairness of tax administration; (b) to promote
compliance with tax laws and broaden the tax base; and (c) to promote trade facilitation6.

   The revised costing of the project has taken into account 100% financing proposed under the
restructuring.
  The original amount of the IBRD loan was US$24.4 million, from which an amount of US$0.122 million
was deducted on account of the front-end fee, leaving an unwithdrawn IBRD balance of US$24.278
million.
 As per the Development Credit Agreement, dated March 9,2005.
                                                 5
0   Resultshndicators (See Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring;)

0   Components

16.    In line with reform priorities, the existing components are proposed to be re-
organized into four components for simplification and more effective implementation and
monitoring:

    A.   Enforcement (including audit)
    B.   Organization and management for increased efficiency
    C.   Information Technology
    D.   Project management and implementation

17.    Some new activities are being proposed under the above components in line with
the Action Plan adopted by the FBR (see Annex 10.

18.     The T A W Procurement and Implementation Plans have been updated. All these
activities are expected to enhance tax revenue in the medium term.

0   Safeguards

19.      The project's environmental category is proposed to be changed to "By' and
OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) has been triggered owing to the construction of
some transit facilities (temporary housing) for FBR staff in different cities in Pakistan,
financed by TARP. These activities may result in low-level, temporary environmental
impacts, which can easily be mitigated through good house-keeping practices. GoP has
consequently prepared an environmental management plan (EMP) with adequate
institutional arrangements proposed to implement the plan. The document was disclosed
locally on May 7,2010 and submitted to InfoShop for disclosure on June 7,2010.

0   Institutional arrangements

20.     Some aspects of project management have already been strengthened as a result
of restructuring discussions with the FBR. These include: (i) engagement of a full-time
Project Management Unit (PMU) Director; and (ii) continuous interaction of the PMU
with all Wings and Members of FBR to ensure rapid implementation. The restructuring
will not affect current arrangements for procurement and financial management. The
PMU had been depleted with the departure of the Project Director, Procurement
Specialist and Finance Advisor due to prolonged uncertainty about the closing date of the
project. However, the FBR is in the process of filling these positions on a fast-track basis,
which will considerably strengthen project management, procurement and financial
management. In addition, in view of the infrastructure investments, the FBR proposes to
engage a Project Director with qualifications/experiencein civil engineering.




                                             6
          Financing

    2 1.    Project Costs. The proposed restructuring will reduce overall project costs to
    US$ 73.90 million after cancellation of project savings of US$ 49.095 million. The
    revised project cost is summarized in Table 1. Total disbursements as of August 9, 20 10
    per the Bank's records are: US$ 39.48 million in total, comprising US$ 32.56 million of
    the current IDA allocation, US$ 0.12 million7 of IBRD loan proceeds, and US$6.80
    million of the DFID grant.

                                                     Table 1
                                              Revised Project Costs

                                  Original          Estimate           at Revised Cost Estimate
                                  Appraisal
                                          I          I         1
                            IDA IBRD DFID Total IDA lBKD DFID Total                1         I         1
                                        I-      118.00 131.04 I -       I - 131.04 1
                                                    I          I          1        I                               1
    Works                   18.00
    IT Systems: Software 41.60 24.40 10.00 76.00 6.86 -                 116.85 123.71
    and hardware
    Consultant Services     6.10          8.00    14.10 5.11 -            2.16   7.27
    Training                5.00          5.00    10.00 2.37 -            3.99 6.36
    Vehicles                2.40 -        -       2.40     2.11 -         -      2.1 1
    Incremental             2.50 -        -       2.50     3.29           -      3.29
    Administrative    and
    Operational Costs
                                                                 10.12 I       I 0.12
                                                    I          I          I        I         I         I

    Front End Fee
I   Total                 I 75.60 24.40 I 23.00 I 123.00 I 50.78 I 0.12 123.00 I 73.90 I
    Notes:
        1) The original estimate included the refund for the Project Preparation Advance of US$2.9 million,
           bringing IDA financing to US$78.5 million and donor funding to US$125.9 million.
        2) The Front End Fee of US$O.122 million, which has alreaa5, been charged, has been included in
           the project cost above.
        3) FlexibiliQ for financing within the revised cost estimate will be available to the extent permissible
           under TARP Revised PC-I approved by the GOP and earlier agreed with the Bank.

    0     Reallocations

    22.      The FBR has proposed reallocation of funds as follows:

    0     In order to further extend the tax administration operational network and achieve a
          more balanced work load, the FBR proposes to increase the number of RTOs from 12
          (as initially envisioned in the project) to 13 and Model Customs Collectorates from 6
          to 9. This will be essential for successful implementation of a broad-based VAT or
          reformed GST, which covers both goods and services. As a result of this increase in
          the scope of work of infrastructure development plus escalation in cost over the past


    'The actual amount is $US 0.122 million, but this is rounded up.
                                                         7
      four years, the budget for infrastructure development is proposed to be increased from
      US$18 million to US$ 3 1.04 million.
      Based on FBR's new IT strategy and lesser reliance on externally developed
      solutions, the FBR now estimates its total requirements for this category at US$23.71
      million.
      The FBR has revised the allocation for training from US$lO.O million to US$ 6.37
      million on the basis of actual requirements.
      The FBR proposes to reduce the allocation for consulting services from US$14.10
      million to US$ 7.27 million. This reduction is mainly due to FBR using more in-
      house resources such as in the development of the Information Technology
      Management System (ITMS) through the Pakistan Revenue Automation Ltd.
      (PRAL), slower than expected progress in strengthening the audit function, in-house
      handling of appeals, dispute resolution, customs and tax fraud, and partly due to
      delays in selection of consultants.
      As a result of the proposed extension of the closing date, as well as strengthening the
      results tracking and reporting arrangements, incremental administrative and operating
      costs (project management) will increase from US$2.5 million to US$ 3.29 million.
      In addition, due to the appreciation of the SDR vis-a-vis PKR, the allocation for
      vehicles has been reduced from US$2.4 million to US$2.11 million.

      Cancellations

23.     The proposed restructuring will reduce overall project costs to US$ 73.90 million
after cancellation of project savings of US$ 49.095 million. The revised project cost is
summarized in Table 1.

      Closing date

24.     The project restructuring is seeking to extend the closing date until December 31,
201 1 to support the renewed reform momentum on tax administration, improve revenue
collection performance against the backdrop of the ongoing fiscal challenges confronting
Pakistan, and increase the overall likelihood of achieving the PDO.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

25.     None of the proposed changes will have an effect on the original economic,
financial, technical, institutional or social aspects of the project as appraised. The
restructuring will have no impact on the current financial management and disbursement
arrangements. There are no outstanding audit reports or ineligible expenditures.

26.   The environmental category of the project is proposed to be changed to "B" and
OP/BP 4.0 1 (Environmental Assessment) has been triggered.

27.      The proposed restructuring does not involve any exceptions to the Bank policies.



                                              8
                              Pakistan Tax Administration Reform Project
                                     ANNEX I-A:
                         Results Framework and Monitoring
    Linkages between Outputs, Intermediate Outcomesfindicators and Project Outcomes

PDO: The project development objective is to improve the effectiveness of Pakistan's revenue
administration.

Project Outcome Indicators:
    1. FBR gross and net revenue collection as percentage of tax revenue target (total for each tax)
        (monthly, quarterly, annual) - Baseline 2009/10 (net revenue collection) Rs. 1,380 bn; Est. target
        for end of project - Rs. 1,667 bn.'
    2. FBR total tax collectiodGDP (annual) - Baseline 2009/10 - 9.4%; Est. target end project - 9.8%.9
    3. Survey-based user ratings for FBR - Baseline survey conducted in 2007; Next survey planned in
        FY'11.
    4. Stop-filers as percentage of registered active taxpayers (total, type of tax, taxpayer size) - Baseline
        2008/09 - Companies 54%; Individuals 40%; end project target - Companies 53%; Individuals
        39%.
    5. Additional tax paid after audit as percentage of total collection of domestic taxes - Baseline
        2009/10 Rs. 7,560m; est. target end project - Rs. 7,700m.
    6. Modernized FBR organizational structure filly functional.


          Outputs                   Intermediate Outcomes        Intermediate Outcome                    Project
                                                                       Indicators                       0utcoInes
                                         Organization and man: ,ement:
  FBR structure integrated and      Improved organizational           Administrative cost of
  function based                    efficiency and effectiveness of   collection as % of total t x
                                                                                                a
  A new HRM policy and rules        revenue administration            revenues (annual)- maintain
  for staff evaluation and                                            below 1%
  mobility based on merit                                             A large number of mid-level
  implemented                                                         staff trained
  Training program for mid-level                                      (annual)-estimate 5,000 p.a.
  staff
  An action plan to improve staff                                     User ratings for Taxpayer
  integrity implemented                                               Facilitation Centers through
                                                                      periodic taxpayer surveys
                                                                      (actual experience md
                                                                      perceptions) (annual)



  A new set of performance                                            Per cent of tax returns filed
  indicators with specific                                            electronically (by type of tax)
  benchmarks covering taxpayer                                        (annual)-
  registration, filing, audit,                                        Baseline 2008/09 - 36%
  enforcement of arrears                                              End project target - 45%
  payment, and appeals - e.g. e-
  filing and e-payment extended
  to most income tax taxpayers
  Periodic reports on FBR
  performance to the FBR
  management, Board, and the
  public (annual)




* Assumptions: Economy grows by 4.5% p.a. and VAT or reformed GST is implemented
 Same assumptions as above
              Qutputs                  Intermediate Outcomes               Intermediate Outcome                    Project
                                                                                 Indicators                       0utea mes

                                                                      wdit:
     Implementation of the new         Improved compliance and         e    Percentage reduction of tax              1. 5
     taxpayer ledger                   enforcement, including audit         arrears (annual)
                                                                            1. Less than 6 months
                                                                            2. More than 6 months -
                                                                                  Baseline (2009/10) - less
                                                                                  than 6 months - 73,335;
                                                                                  more than 6 months -
                                                                                  35,164
                                                                                                                   1, 2, 3, 4

     VATheformed GST
     enforcement and compliance
     activities implemented'
     Electronic Refund System                                              Reduction of stock of arrears as          L3
     implemented                                                           percent of stock of arrears for
                                                                           previous year (annual)
e    Expanded use of third-party                                       e   Number of registered active              1, 2, 4
     information                                                           taxpayers (total and by type of
     Enforcement programs using                                            main taxes) (annual) -
     single NTN as taxpayer                                                Baseline 2008/09 - 2.37m;
                                                                           Target - 10% annual increase
     identification number and
     targeting taxpayers with high
     revenue potential
     Improved taxpayer registration                                        Reduction in the percentage of
                                                                           non filers, tax arrears, and returns
                                                                           with errors (biannual)

e    Risk-based audits conducted by                                        Reduction of the tax gap                 ~ 4 , 5
     FBR staff                                                             (annual)


e    Action plan to strengthen the                                    e    Reduction on average number of            3,6
     appeals function implemented                                          days to complete rdministrative
                                                                           appeals process (annual) -
                                                                           Baseline 2009/10 - 60 days
                                                  Information Techno1 y:
                                                                       e    Strengthened FBR information            1, 5 6
                                         of tax administration              systems and their management
                                                                            operational (by Dec. 201 1)
     field offices implemented                                                                   T
                                                                            Effective use of the l systems
                                                                            by FBR field offices (by Dec.
e    An integrated taxpayer/tax type                                        2011)
     accounting adopted
      ISP 2011-2012 prepared
e    Regular business process
     reviews and adjustments
e    A disaster recovely data center
     implemented

e    Quarterly/Annual progress           Project management and              Timely project                          1, 3
     reports                             implementation on track             implementation, including
                                                                             adherence to procurement
                                                                             schedules




lo   Subject to necessary legislation for VAT and amendment of the existing law for GST.

                                                                 10
h
rt
0        0
    rr
    0
e   e   e
            M
            d
e   e
3
    m
    3
                    Pakistan Tax Administration Reform Project

                                    ANNEXII:
                         Proposed Component Restructuring

Original Components                             Revised Components
   1. Management and Institutional              1. Enforcement (including audit)
      Development                                        Carrying out measures to
                i. Organization and                      ensure compliance with
                   Policy                                registration, filing and
               ii. Human Resource                        payment requirements
                   Development                                i. Registratiode-
              iii. Internal Audit                                registration
              iv. Internal Affairs and                       ii. E-filing and e-
                   Vigilance Units                               payment
               v. Change Management                      Implementation of the
                                                         reformed GST /VAT
   2. Improving Revenue Operations                       Extension of the automated
                i. Direct Tax                            refund system to other
               ..
               11. Sales Tax and Central                 LTUs/RTOs for GST, Income
                   Excise                                Tax and proposed VAT /
              iii. Customs                               reformed GST
                                                         Carrying out of audits (post,
   3. Strengthening Revenue Services                     targeted, composite and desk)
                 i. Audit                                including annual audit plans;
                ii. Voluntary and                        third-party matching; risk-
                    Enforced Collection                  based prioritization of cases
                    Appeals and Dispute                  (e.g. audit, follow-up,
                    Resolution                           compliance); detecting tax
               iii. National Intelligence                fraud
                    and Risk Management                  Carrying out of a workflow
               iv. Customs and Tax                       review and automation of the
                    Frauds                               appeals/disputes process.
                                                         Collection of arrears
   4. Creating a Tax Compliant Culture                   (outstanding debt)
                 i. Taxpayer Education                   Carrying out of studies to
                    and Facilitation                     determine the tax gap
                    (communications,                     Training staff on risk-based
                    internet facilities, call            audits and skills update
                .. centers)                              Carrying out of measures for
                11.  Taxpayer
                                                         taxpayer facilitation and
                    Identification and
                                                         education on fulfillment of
                    Registration
                                                         tax obligations.
                                                         Carrying out of business
   5. Adopting Responsive IT Systems.
                                                         process review for the
      (Note: This has been merged within
                                                         enforcement function.
      the revised components).
6. Infrastructure Up-gradation and
   Development (Note: This has been        2. Organization and Management for
   merged within the revised                  Efficiency
   components).                                   Implementation of organizational
7. Program Management and                         change management
   Implementation                                 Upgrading of human resource
                                                  policies and management

                                                  Upgrading of infrastructure and
                                                  adoption of responsive IT
                                                  systems to improve efficiency

                                                  Diagnostic study and independent
                                                  assessment of mid-term
                                                  modernization requirements for
                                                  Customs, including IT systems.

                                           3. Information Technology
                                              - Adopting responsive IT systems
                                           4. Program Management and
                                              Implementation
                                              - Change management,
                                                 communications, outreach -
                                                 internal and external
                                              - Surveys of taxpayers (companies
                                                 and individuals) and publication/
                                                 dissemination of results
                                              - Incremental oDerating costs




                                      17
                     Pakistan Tax Administration Reform Project

                                     ANNEXIII:
                              Supervision Plan and Budget

Following the May 2010 Implementation Review Mission, FBWGoP and the Bank have
agreed that henceforth the Bank will field integrated missions. These integrated missions
will combine the task team of the T A W project with the members of the DfID-funded
Technical Assistance team which has been providing advice on tax policy and
administration issues since September 2008.

Given the problems associated with project implementation since 2007, Bank
management has also agreed to provide intensive supervision until the end of the project
(December 31, 2011). A Lead Public Sector Specialist (Revenue) is currently being
recruited to be based in the Islamabad office to manage the implementation of TAW and
the broader policy dialogue on revenue issues.

Bank management is in discussion with the DfID Islamabad Office to arrange for
supplementary budget for enhanced supervision during the next 18 months. Since
September 2008, DfID has provided a Trust Fund which has been used to finance the cost
of the Technical Assistance team; however, the initial Trust Fund is expiring on
December 31,2010.

In recognition of the additional funds required for intensive project supervision, the Bank
is providing, in FYI 1, US$ 245,000 which is almost twice the normal budget allocated
for a single project. For the Bank and DfID to maintain the same level of supervision and
technical assistance provided during the last two years, a budget of about US$ 886,000
(about GBP 600,000) is being requested from DfID. This additional budget will finance
quarterly missions of the four-member TA team, plus the cost associated for an additional
consultant for the enhanced supervision for calendar year 201 1.

In addition to these integrated missions, the Bank may need to respond to special ad-hoc
requests from the GoP, particularly relating to assistance with drafting of the regulations
and implementation of VATheformed GST. For these ad-hoc requests, a supplementary
budget will be required.




                                            18
