Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21991
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.2 MILLION (US$7.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAIJ
FOR AN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2342-GUB)
April 2, 2001
Macroeconomics 5
Country Department 14
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 20, 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1 = 776 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO                       Central Bank of West African States
BCGB                        Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau
CENFA                       National Center for Administrative Training
CET                         Common External Tariff
CFAF                        West African Currency Unit (Franc CFA)
CICER                       Beer Factory
DICOL                       Oil importing and distribution company
EMP                         Economic Management Project
ERRC                        Economic Rehabilitation Recovery Credit
ESAF                        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility of the IMF
GOGB                        Government of Guinea-Bissau
HIPC                        Highly Indebted Poor Country Initiative
IDA                         International Development Association
IMF                         International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP                      Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MEF                         Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTR                         Mid-Term Review
PGE                         Projecto de Gestdo Economica
PIP                         Public Investment Program
PMU                         Project Management Unit
QAG                         Quality Assurance Group of the World Bank
SAC                         Structural Adjustment Credit
SEP                         Secretariat of State for Planning
SYDONIA                     Computerized Customs Management System
TIN                         Taxpayer Identification Number
UGREP                       Unit in charge of Public Enterprise Reform
UNDP/DTCD                   United Nations Development Programme/Department
of Technical cooperation
WAEMU                       West African Economic and Monetary Union
VAT                         Value-Added Tax
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    John McIntire
Sector Manager/Director:    Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Marcelo Andrade



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Contents
Page No.
I.   PROJECT DATA ......... .................................................................. I1
2.   PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS ............................................................................2
3.   ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN, AND OF QUALITY AT ENTRY ........2
4.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS ............................................................................5
5.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME ..................... ..............................8
6.   SUSTAINABILITY ...........................................................................9
7.   BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE .                 ........................................................................... 0
S.   LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................................................     11
9.   PARTNER COMMENTS ........................................................................... 11
10.  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ........................................................................... 13
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS/LOG FRAME MATRIX .14
ANNEX 2. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .16
ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .17
ANNEX 4. BANK INPUTS .18
ANNEX 5. RATINGS FOR ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES/OUTPUTS OF COMPONENTS .19
ANNEX 6. RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE .19
ANNEX 7. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS .20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2342-GUB)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1.   PROJECT DATA
Project Name:          Economic Management Project:         Project ID:          P001011
Country/Department:   GUINEA-BISSAU:                        L/C Number:          IDA-23420
Region:                Africa Region                        TL Unit:             AFTM5
Sector/subsector:      BF - Public Financial Management
KEY DATES                            Original                            Revised/Actual
PCD                                May 8,1991
Appraisal                          June 14, 1991
Approval                          March 19, 1992
Effectiveness                      June 19, 1992                        October 20, 1992
MTR                              October 20, 1994                       March 6, 1995
Closing                         December 31, 1996                      October 31, 2000
Borrower:                         Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Implementing Agency:              Ministry of Economy and Finance/Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau
Other Partners:                   Parallel assistance was provided by: UNDP; European Union; French
Cooperation (FAC); Portuguese Cooperation; ASDI (Sweden).
STAFF                 Current                        At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo                Edward K. Jaycox
Country Manager:    John McIntire                     Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:       Emmanuel Akpa                   Magdi Iskander
Team Leader at ICR:  Marcelo Andrade                 Jennifer Edwards
ICR Primary Author:  Marcelo Andrade



- 2 -
2. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Outcome:                            Satisfactory
Sustainability:                     Likely
Institutional Development Impact:   Sustainable
Bank Performance:                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:               Satisfactory
QAG (if available)     ICR
Quality at Entry:                                           Satisfactory
Project at Risk at Any Time:        Yes
3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN, AND OIF
QUALITY AT ENTRY
3.1    Original Objective:
The project's main objectives were to (a) strengthen Government's analytical capacity to manage and
monitor economic policy; and (b) enhance domestic technical capacity and skills in economic policy-
making and management. These objectives were consistent with the Government's concerns about the
need to reverse the mixed economic performance of the late 1980s/early 1990s with a view to regain the
confidence of its population and of the international community. Project objectives were broad but
realistic and consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Guinea-Bissau at the time, particularly with
improving public resource management, strengthening domestic resource mobilization and reforming
public enterprises to alleviate the burden on the budget.
This project formed part of the Bank's long-termn program of assistance to strengthen the Governrent of
Guinea-Bissau's (GOGB) capacity to formulate and implement economic reforms. It was prepared in a
relatively short time, as many of the components had been prepared under the Second Technical
Assistance project and were to be implemented under this one. Lessons from two earlier IDA-financed
technical assistance credits, Cr. 1517-GUB (First Technical Assistance Credit), closed in 1988 and Cr.
1935-GUB (Second Technical Assistance Credit), closed in 1993, and two structural adjustment credits,
Cr. 1798-GUB (SAC I), closed in 1989 and Cr. 2019-GUB (SAC II), closed in 1994, were incorporated
into the project design. The economic reform program agreed to under SAC II and later under the
International Monetary Fund-financed three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)
arrangement, approved in January 1995, and the associated Medium-Term Policy Framework Plapers,
were actively supported by the capacity building activities financed under this project.
The project was to be implemented by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) whiclh was
responsible for overall coordination; the Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau (BCGB); the Secretary cf State
for Planning (SEP); and the Unit in charge of the Public Enterprise Reform Program (UGREP).
Operational capacity of the agencies involved in the project was carefully assessed during preparation and
suitable technical assistance identified in the project to address weaknesses. To assist the MEF in its role
as overall coordinator and to take charge of project administration, the Project Management Unit (PMU),
which had been set up under the previous Bank-financed technical assistance projects, was continued with
national staff who had been trained under the previous projects. Moreover, a substantial in-country
training program was included in the project design to address priority skills gaps.



- 3 -
The project was originally planned to be fully disbursed over four years (June 1992-June 1996); in fact, it
took eight (October 1992-October 2000), due to unforeseen difficulties and security problems. Initially,
project effectiveness and start-up were delayed due to a major government reshuffle and change in the
Minister of Economy and Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank, two agencies crucial to the
successful implementation of the project. Four extensions were granted during the project's lifetime, as
made necessary by changes in the political and economic situation of the country. The first extension
(from December 31, 1996 to June 30, 1998) was associated with the political change to a multiparty
democracy (1991-94) and the complexity of the public sector and fiscal reforms, which meant that
consensus building on the proposed reforms and their implementation was slower than anticipated. The
second extension (June 30, 1998 to December 31, 1998), at the request of a recently appointed Minister of
Economy and Finance, was to allow the project to continue to support the authority's ongoing efforts in
carrying out adjustments and harmonization required in view of the country's accession to the West
African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) in May 1997. The third and fourth extensions
(December 31, 1998 to June 30, 2000 and then to October 31, 2000) were due to an 11-month armed
conflict, which broke out in June 1998.
The delay in implementation reflects the need to allow more time for the successive governments to build
consensus for the comprehensive economic reforms being undertaken. It also reflects the need to allow
the project to assist the Government after its decision to take the country into the WAEMU as staff had to
be trained to be familiar with the WAEMU policies and procedures, and advisory services were needed to
reformulate and harmonize budget and tax regulations and practices. Additionally, it reflects the
importance of allowing the project to provide immediate assistance to the country to help reestablish
critical public administration services after the conflict.
3.2    Revised Objective:
The project's main objectives remained unchanged. By the time of the Mid-term Review (MTR) (March
1995), improved economic performance helped the authorities to successfully negotiate a 1994-97
Medium Term Policy Framework with the World Bank and the IMF. In light of this, the authorities and
the Bank took the opportunity to analyze the appropriateness of each of the project components with the
objective of assessing the Government's capacity to fulfill the recently agreed macroeconomic
stabilization measures and structural reforms.
The MTR workshop, attended by all relevant beneficiaries of the project and the Bank and other donors
involved in economic management, revealed that the original objectives and components of the Project
remained valid and that no major restructuring was required. Instead, the recommendations of the
workshop focused more on implementation issues and developing indicators so as to ensure that the stated
objectives would be achieved. In view of the country's challenging economic reform program, the
importance of improving staff skills through in-country training was further underlined.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement was amended once. Schedule One was
amended on November 19, 1992 to change the disbursement percentages so as to encourage the
participation of local suppliers in the procurement packages financed under the Credit. An additional
category was introduced to separate the costs of operating a Project Management Unit.
3.3    Original Components:
At approval, the project consisted of the following components:
A. Budget Reform
1. Study and reform of the Borrower's budgetary process (including within the MEF and various line
ministries) to streamline and strengthen budgeting, accounting, and auditing practices, and to expand
budget coverage.



- 4 -
2. Strengthen the capacity of the Office of Inspection General of Finances of the MEF to improve
internal expenditure and audit controls.
B. Tax Reform Management
1. Strengthen the Borrower's capacity to design and implement reforms to simplify and modernize its tax
policy regime, and streamline and modernize its customs procedures.
C. Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)
1. Improve the capacity of the macroeconomic analysis unit of the MEF to monitor and control the
Borrower's macroeconomic performance.
2. Build up capacity to manage the reform of public enterprises, in particular their privatization,
including strengthening the unit in charge of the public enterprise reform program - Unidade de Gestdo
da Reforma das Empresas Pzublicas (UGREP).
D. Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau (BCGB)
1. Develop BCGB's capacity to provide and analyze monetary data by improving its management
information systems, including expanding its computerization program.
2. Improve BCGB's capacity to supervise and regulate the banking sector.
E. Training Capacity
1. Strengthen the capacity of the National Center for Administrative Training - Centro Nacional de
Formaqdo Administrativa (CENFA), to provide courses relating to public sector management (including
courses in accounting, computer science and public investment programming).
2. Improve the capacity of the Guinean Association for Training in Banking - Associaqdo Guineense de
Formaqdo Bancaria to provide courses relating to finance sector management.
F. Management of Civil Service Reform
1. Creation of a central civil service personnel registry.
3.4 Revised Components:
As a result of the mid-term review of the project, in March 1995, a detailed work program and
implementation schedule was agreed with a revised cost table and training program. The project
components were more clearly defined, as follows:
A. Public Financial System Reformn
A. 1. Institutional Framework
A.2. Budget Preparation
A.3. Budget Execution, Monitoring and Control
B. Fiscal Reform
B.l. Fiscal Policy
B.2. Fiscal Administration
C. Other Macroeconomic Policy Issues
C. I. Macroeconomic Policy Analysis
C.2. Public Enterprise Reform
D. Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau
D. 1. Central Bank: institutional strengthening to formulate and monitor monetary policy
E. Training and Manpower Development Capacity Building (included in sub-components A-D).
F. Civil Service Reform:
F. 1. Creation of a central civil service personnel registry.



-5-
3.5    Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. Project preparation took account of the Government's concerns and was
consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy. Project design was sound. It benefited from studies and
preparatory work which had been carried out under the Second Technical Assistance project, which was
coming to a close, as well as two Special Project Preparation Facility (SPPF) grants that financed an
analysis of the banking sector and tax administration. Project design predates the Logical Framework
methodology, therefore the link between objectives and results was established in other ways, in
particular during a retrofitting in 1996/97 when the broad key performance indicators, listed in the
Memorandum of the President, were better defined (See Annex 1). Moreover, potential risks were
accurately identified at the design stage. The main risk facing the operation was identified as the limited
local administrative and implementation capacity. The risk was mitigated by the sustained commitment
of the Government, effective assistance by the Bank team, and use of working groups and task forces to
build consensus and support for the project's objectives. For the first time, other bilateral donors and
multilateral agencies supported the Government's economic reform program with technical assistance
programs that were complementary to the objectives and scope of the project. Implementation was
supported by regular supervision missions.  The project ratings were satisfactory throughout
implementation, except for the period during the military conflict (June 1998-May 1999), during which
the Bank's portfolio was suspended and project supervision was not possible.
4.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
4.1    Outcome/achievement of objectives:
The project outcome is considered satisfactory as it substantially met the objectives of assisting the
Government to strengthen its capacity to manage and monitor economic policy and to enhance local
technical skills. This assessment is based on the following: (i) the Government improved considerably its
economic performance over the period 1993-98; (ii) budget management was modernized and
comprehensive tax reforms adopted aimed at initiating convergence to WAEMU standards; (iii) public
enterprise reforms progressed; and (iv) the project assisted in training more than 3,000 middle level and
senior civil servants.
The project played a pivotal role in enabling several government economic management teams [six
Ministers of Finance since credit approval in 1992] to strengthen the country's economic policy-making
and implementation capacity. By making available timely technical assistance, material support and
extensive training and by providing an umbrella for a coherent donor-technical assistance program, the
project was instrumental in enabling the Government to improve its economic performance track record
between 1993 and 1998. In this context, the Government successfully implemented an IMF staff-
monitored program in 1993-94 and stronger adjustment efforts ensured a satisfactory outcome of the
IDA-supported SAC II, closed in 1994. These efforts paved the way for the adoption of a medium-term
policy framework, agreed in 1994, which formed the basis for a three-year arrangement with the IMF
under the ESAF, approved in January 1995. As a result of broadly satisfactory progress in stabilizing the
economy and implementing structural reforms, over the period in reference, real GDP growth accelerated
to 4.8 percent in 1997 from 2.1 percent in 1993, budgetary performance was improved, and inflation and
the external current account deficit were reduced.
Progress achieved allowed Guinea-Bissau to be admitted into the WAEMU in May 1997. The project
actively supported the Government's reform efforts aimed at convergence with WAEMU policies and
assisted in training staff. In particular, it assisted in the implementation of a comprehensive tax reform,
comprising the introduction of a generalized sales tax and the streamlining of the customs tariff, which
became effective in April 1998. Moreover, with regard to public expenditure management, it assisted the
Government to (i) tighten expenditure controls with the introduction of the procedure of commitment,
liquidation and payment order of public expenditures, and (ii) establish the requirement of prior approval



-6-
by the Ministry of Economy and Finance of expenditure commitments. Accession to WAEMU was a
positive contributing factor for project implementation, as the need for improved fiscal and monetary
policies became more pressing to the Government.
By April 1998, the country had successfully completed the first three-year ESAF program with the IMF.
The Boards of the Bank and the IMF had made a preliminary determination that Guinea-Bissau would be
eligible for assistance under the HIPC Initiative. Negotiations were concluded in May 1998 for a
successor ESAF arrangement with the IMF. IDA support to the reform program, through an adjustment
operation, was also under discussion.
Unfortunately, an armed conflict broke out on June 7, 1998 paralyzing the economy and resulting in
widespread destruction of the capital, Bissau.  Much of the important infrastructure, including
administrative buildings, customs, port, airport, power utility, as well as schools and hospitals, was
heavily damaged or destroyed. Also looted or destroyed were computers, other office equipment and
vehicles, many of which had been provided with financing from the project. Administrative capac ity was
severely weakened, and most civil servants fled the capital, including many that had been trainecl under
the project. Following the return to peace, in May 1999, and the lifting of suspension on the Bank's
portfolio in August 1999, assistance from the project proved vital to help first the Transitional
Government, and then the newly elected Government (February 2000), to restore quickly ke% basic
administrative services, such as the re-establishment of critical budgetary procedures, rehabilitation and
re-equipment of the Customs and Inland Revenue offices. This support was critical for the resumption of
tax and budgetary reforms enacted prior to the conflict and helped the authorities to successfully
implement a program supported by IMF post-conflict emergency assistance.
4.2    Outputs by components:
The status of achievements of project components, as summarized in Annex 1, is as follows:
(a)  Public Financial System  Reform: Budget preparation, execution and monitoring improved
significantly, with the current primary balance/GDP ratio improving by almost four percentage pcints to
5.5 percent of GDP over the period 1993-97. At the same time, the share of budgetary resources allocated
to social sectors increased from 15 percent in 1991-94 to 19 percent in 1995-97. The project supported
the implementation of the MEF's computerization master plan, namely the civil service payroll and
budget and treasury operations. It also supported the introduction of prior authorization of expenditure
commitments by the MEF and the partial integration of the recurrent and capital budgets. Moreover, in
1997, new WAEMIJ financial procedures were introduced and staff were trained to be familiar with them.
Quarterly budget execution reports were published routinely starting in 1996. The office of theInspector-
General of Finance was strengthened with material support, training and technical assistance. An Audit
Manual and training materials were developed and trainers have been trained to continue this work. As a
result of this assistance, the Government was able to close its accounts for 1995. After the conflict, in
addition to assisting in the resumption of basic budgetary procedures, the project financed an audit of
public expenditures' procedures, completed in February 2000, which helped to identify priority actions
aimed at strengthening budgetary management. As a result, technical assistance has been mobilized to
improve treasury management. An external audit of the 1997-2000 budget outturns is being contracted
out and a final report to Parliament is scheduled for late 2001. Moreover, with project support, a review
of the public procurement system was completed and an action plan for its reform approved in July 2000.
(b)  Fiscal Reform: Domestic resource mobilization was considerably strengthened with the ratio of
budgetary revenue/GDP raised by about five percentage points to 15.4 percent of GDP, during 1993-97.
Material and technical support from the project to the Customs and Inland Revenue Directarates
contributed to the progress achieved, which resulted mostly from improved tax administration. A Master
Plan for the computerization of the MEF was completed in 1997, with some components fully
implemented (payroll processing, budget and treasury operations).  A comprehensive tax reform



- 7 -
involving the introduction of a generalized sales tax, and a streamlined five-tier customs tariff, broadly
consistent with the common external tariff of the WAEMU countries, was enacted in 1998. At the same
time, a taxpayer identification number (TIN) was introduced and the largest taxpayers have been
registered. After the conflict, the project provided critical support to restore the tax administration and to
resume the 1998 reforms. In this context, in August 2000, the number of customs tariffs was further
reduced to four and the maximum rate established at 20 percent. Moreover, the broad-based sales tax, a
forerunner to VAT, is expected soon to be increased by five percentage points to 15 percent.
(c) Macroeconomic Policy Analysis: Earlier in the project, a ministerial team, headed by the Prime
Minister, was created to facilitate decision-making and foster support for the reform process. This team
was supported by a Technical Secretariat, which later became a Policy Unit in the Ministry of Economy
and Finance. This Unit played a critical role in the implementation of the reforms adopted after 1994.
(d)  Public Enterprise Reform: The project assisted in the establishment of the Privatization Unit under
the MEF. Of 46 public enterprises existing in the early nineties, 17 had been put up for tender or
liquidated, and seven were placed under private management by end-1997. Privatization involved
companies such as the telecommunications and port services, and the beer factory (CICER); liquidations
included the national airline (TAGB) and the oil importing and distributing company (DICOL); and
management contracts involved hotels and public utility companies. After the conflict, work in this area
started to be supported by the proposed Private Sector Rehabilitation Project, under preparation.
(e)  Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau: The management information system was computerized in
1995/96 and banking supervision and inspection improved to oversee the financial sector. With Guinea-
Bissau's entry into the CFA zone, in May 1997, the Central Bank became a national delegation of the
Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO), headquartered in Dakar, Senegal. Stricter monetary
policies within the regional context helped to reduce inflationary pressures. The project financed
specialized training programs for staff of the Central Bank, which facilitated the transition to the BCEAO.
Staff employed in private commercial banks were also trained.
(f) Training and Manpower Development Capacity Building: About 3,400 people passed through
training programs financed by the project. Training programs were carried out to upgrade skills and
disseminate knowledge required to support implementation of different components of the project, and
more generally the economic reform process. Mostly, training was held in-country and targeted middle
level and senior civil servants, but the private sector was also involved. This implied that several national
private and public training institutions were strengthened with advisory services, curriculum development
and material support. The courses were designed to match the academic level of the participants together
with the task they had to perform. Training covered areas such as economic policy and planning,
accounting, auditing, financial analysis, project management, tax and customs administration, budget
management, and computer skills. They also included remedial courses for staff who returned from the
Eastern Bloc countries, as well as language training.
Table 1. Results of Training Program
Type of Training                        Total Number Trained
I A Tn-noltryd
Spec7atl2ze-d                                             1859
Language                                                  238
Seminars                                                  1,300
Subtotal                                                  3397
B. Abroad                                                       22
Subtotal                                                   22
Total Trained                                             3419



- 8 -
(g)  Civil Service Reform: With project assistance, a civil service census was completed by end-1996.
This, coupled with audits made possible by the MEF's computerized payroll, enabled the authorities to
reduce the size of the civil service by 15 percent during 1995-97. A census of the military and para-
military was completed in 1997. In addition to supporting the creation of a civil service personnel
registry, the project financed a review of the civil service pay and grading structure, which was cornpleted
in late- 1997, and led to the establishment of a Government Commission on salary reform in 1998. With
bilateral donor support, this task is currently being resumed.
4.3    Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable to this project.
4.4    Financial rate of return:
Not applicable to this project.
4.5   Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project wassubstantial. In spite of the loss of skills resulting
from the conflict, a considerable number of staff trained under the project is still active in economic
policy decision-making and is playing a critical role in helping the country face its post-conflict
challenge. Further, the foundations laid by the project helped the preparation of Cr. 3349-GUB
(Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit - ERRC), and those foundations are being consolidated
during ERRC implementation. Tax reforms, were resumed in 1999 and expanded in 2000. In spite of
weakened public expenditure management, procedures broadly in line with those in the WAEM1J have
been reestablished, and the Government has identified priority areas for improvement. In the area of
public enterprise reforms, experience and knowledge amassed during the Economic Management Project
is being used to relaunch the process in the context of the proposed Private Sector Rehabilitation IProject.
As for reform of the civil service pay and grading structure, with bilateral support, the Government has
resumed this task in 2001. Reforms described above are important elements of the comprehensive and
participatory Interim PRSP (I-PRSP) submitted by the Government to the World Bank and the I \4F, in
September 2000. The I-PRSP, plus the broadly satisfactory implementation of the IMF post-conflict
emergency assistance program, created conditions for an IMF-financed three-year Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) program. This in turn paved the way for a favorable consideration of the HIPC
Decision Point by the Boards of the World Bank and the IMF on December 15, 2000.
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME,
5.1    Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The 11-month violent conflict that erupted in June 1998, caused substantial delays in project
implementation and resulted in a weaker than expected project outcome. It paralyzed the entire public
administration, resulted in significant material losses, and contributed to the interruption of reforms and a
considerable erosion of capacities that had been developed with project support. During the wvar, the
project implementing agency was unable to carry out its activities and, after they were resumed, it took a
few months to bring the project back on track. In view of the major impediment posed by the war to the
orderly implementation of the project, IDA suspended project disbursements in July 1998. Suspension of
disbursements was only lifted in August 1999 due to the country's difficulty in clearing its debt s,ervice
arrears to IDA.



- 9 -
5.2    Factors generally subject to government control:
Two factors fall into this category: (i) the overextended transition to a multiparty democracy; and (ii)
membership in the WAEMU. The protracted nature of the political transition caused postponement of
decisions and led to substantial delays in project effectiveness and start-up. It resulted from the
considerable time lag between the announcement in 1991 that the country would be moving to a
multiparty system and the time when elections were finally held in 1994. With regard to the second
factor, accession to WAEMU in May 1997, this helped project implementation substantially by
reinforcing the urgency of improvements in public finance and monetary policy to bring them up to
regional standards.
5.3    Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The high turnover of key staff in critical implementing agencies, particularly in the Minister of Economy
and Finance, contributed to delays in project implementation. At times, the situation was difficult,
especially after the conflict, as changes in senior level managers often led to changes in the middle-level
technical staff as well.
5.4    Costs andfinancing:
Detailed costs and financing tables for the project are presented in Annex 2. Actual total project cost
represented about 89 percent of the estimate established at appraisal. This change reflects mainly a higher
than expected parallel financing from other donors, particularly for technical assistance in the fiscal and
financial management component. These savings (26 percent), in part financed higher than projected
costs with training (larger than initially envisaged program) and the PMU (considerable delay in project
implementation (see 3.1)). In terms of financing arrangements, the Government contribution was
eliminated as a result of the amendment to the Development Credit Agreement on November 19, 1992.
6. SUSTAINABILITY
6.1    Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated as likely. First, the public financial system and fiscal reformns financed
under the project are likely to endure, so long as peace is assured. In this context, the broadly satisfactory
economic performance after the conflict has been encouraging, and the recent achievement of the HIPC
Decision Point is a landmark in view of the country's unsustainable debt burden. Moreover, the risk of
renewed conflict might be mitigated to some extent by the IDA-financed ERRC, which supports a
demobilization, reintegration and reinsertion program of ex-combatants and jump starting the private
sector through settlement of a sizeable public sector domestic debt. Second, as the country's membership
in the WAEMU is unlikely to be reversed, the Government's commitment to reforms is likely to be
maintained. Third, in spite of the loss of skills that took place as a result of the conflict, a considerable
number of staff who upgraded their expertise are still in country.
Unfortunately, with regard to training, in view of the substantial damage suffered by the Public
Administration training center, CENFA, it is not clear how future initiatives could be supported.
6.2    Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project supported capacity building and institutional development through the provision of about 480
person-months of technical assistance. Other donors supporting macroeconomic and public sector
management also provided considerable technical assistance. Capacity building to strengthen economic
management and institutional development is considered important by the Government. In this context,
technical assistance is being provided by multilateral and bilateral donors. Furthermore, the Bank's
assistance provisionally plans for a follow-up project by FY04.



- 10-
7. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank team
worked closely with the Borrower to identify key issues affecting the Guinean public financial sector and
used lessons learned from past Bank-financed operations in this area, and the experience from two
structural adjustment operations. The team also worked with the IMF staff and other donors assisling the
country in the area of public financial sector. The Bank team worked closely with the Borrower to
identify main skills gaps and designed training to help mitigate them.
7.2   Supervision:
The project was well supervised, with two formal supervision missions taking place per year, on average.
The missions provided relevant advice and followed up on previous recommendations and agreed actions.
Recommendations were proper and timely. There was continuity in the Bank staff as the original task
manager stayed until the end of the project. The project team used specialized skills extensively, mainly
in-house. Outside consultants were used regularly and for the mid-term review. During Country
Portfolio Performance Reviews (CPPR), the Country Director followed up on all the recommendations of
the project team. He maintained a good dialogue, developed an understanding of the Borrower's policies,
facilitated implementation and provided the necessary resources. The Sector Manager also pro-vided a
supportive environment for the project team. Supervision reports were realistic, focusing on achieving
the development objectives.
7.3    Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory. Following a satisfactory project preparation,
during implementation the Bank team was flexible (as required by the evolving in-country situation), and
kept its focus on achieving the project's main objectives, while maintaining to that effect a good policy
dialogue with the Goverrnment and productive coordination with other donors.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in terms of the quality of project preparation was found to be satisfactory.
The Borrower's active involvement at this stage was critical to the sound design of the project. All the
relevant financial, economic, and institutional factors were taken into account during preparation.
7.5    Government implementation performance:
The government's performance throughout the project remained satisfactory. Despite the uncertain
political conditions in the early years of the project, government commitment remained strong. In
general, the Government acted appropriately whenever its intervention was required, collaborated closely
with IDA missions and followed up on the agreed action plans. Moreover, in spite of the previously-
mentioned high staff turnover, continuity in the staff of the PMU proved to be extremely effeclive in
enabling the project to progress satisfactorily.
7.6   ImplementingAgency:
All the implementing agencies and units provided effective management. Proper financial control s were
kept in place, and audits were unqualified and provided on time as required by the Credit Agreement,
except for the last one, which is being finalized and is expected to be received soon. This final audit will
most probably be qualified, as there is an outstanding amount on the Special Account, which has yet to be



- I1 -
reimbursed by the Borrower. The PMU provided regular reporting on the project's progress as per
implementation arrangements. Regular reports also contained a sufficient amount of data to monitor the
project.
7. 7   Overall Borrower performance:
Given the above considerations and outcome of the project which could not have been attained without
continued Government commitment, the Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory, despite
considerable delays in project implementation.
8. LESSONS LEARNED
The following key lessons may be drawn from the implementation of this project:
(a) Technical Assistance projects in uncertain political environments must provide enough
flexibility and be adequately supervised to cope with unexpected events and respond to changing
circumstances. In the Economic Management Project, this was critical in ensuringthat, although
later than initially anticipated, the project objectives were substantially met.
(b) Beneficiaries of technical assistance should have sufficient capacity to ensure that the
necessary skills can be transferred. If this is not the case, then training programs should be
tailored to the circumstances and involve the technical assistant in curriculum design. In the
EMP, the training coordinator worked closely with each consultant to ensure that the formal
training programs would respond to the task for which technical assistance was being given. This
also ensured that the consultant would take time to transfer knowledge while carrying out the
assignment, for example, through on-the-job training and regular seminars.
(c) This project confirms that capacity building is a long-term undertaking, particularly in
fragile and evolving situations, as ownership of reforms implies allowing for sufficient time to
build consensus among the different stakeholders on the necessary changes in policies,
procedures and behavior patterns for reforms to succeed and be sustainable.
(d) In countries with weak institutional capacity and an evolving political environment, a
freestanding PMU staffed with personnel trained in Bank guidelines on procurement and
disbursement procedures is essential for implementation to proceed smoothly, and for accounts to
be kept in an orderly manner. In this project, the PMU's personnel was dedicated to the day-to-
day running of the project, focused on the project objectives and not subject to the volatility
brought about by the frequent political changes.
(e) Following short-lived conflicts, technical assistance projects can be instrumental in assisting
in the restoration of critical public administration services. In Guinea-Bissau, this was evidenced
in helping the Government to reestablish budget systems and priority tax and customs services.
9. PARTNER COMMENTS
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(The Borrower's assessment, submitted in Portuguese, consisted of an overall assessment of project
implementation and an evaluation of the training component. Below is a summary of its main findings
and recommendations).



- 12 -
The Government of Guinea-Bissau (GOGB) considers that, overall, the results achieved by the project
have been satisfactory. The Government also considers that the impact of assistance financed through the
project to improve the country's economic management is substantial, both in the years prior to, and in
the post-conflict phase after May 1999.
The GOGB acknowledges that, since 1993, the Economic Management Project (Projecto de Gestdo
Economica-PGE), more than any other institutional development project, has made a significant
contribution to improving the Government's economic performance. It recognizes that thanks to the
advisory services, material support and training of the PGE, the Government was able to conclude SAC II
satisfactorily in 1994, and create the conditions for an ESAF program with the IMF, from 1995 to 1998.
The Government further notes the important role of the PGE assistance to the broadly satisfactory
execution of the annual programs in the context of the ESAF, especially in the implementation of the
public enterprise reform program, the fiscal reform and improvement in the Customs administration. The
Government's evaluation of the training program refers to the very important contribution of PGE in
building local skills and knowledge transfer that were vital to the achievement of an improved economic
performance.
In its assessment, the GOGB states that when it took the political decision to join the West African
Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) in 1997, the availability of timely technical assistance and
training programs, financed from the PGE, allowed the Government, in a relatively short time, to make
the necessary adjustments for joining the Union. It adds that the project support was critical in carrying
out the reforms after 1993, which allowed a significant improvement of the country's macroeconomic
performance and enabled Guinea-Bissau, in April 1998, to be declared eligible for assistance under the
HIPC Initiative.
The Government then mentions that unfortunately, with the outbreak of the armed uprising in June 1998,
progress achieved in economic policy formulation and monitoring came to an abrupt halt. The country
was paralyzed for more than a year, the economic situation deteriorated significantly and many of those
that had been trained fled the country. Nevertheless, the assessment refers, in the post-conflict period
technical staff trained under the PGE played a critical role in the reconstruction efforts integrated in
government agencies and/or the private sector. To sum up, the GOGB indicates that while the military
conflict of June 1998 greatly jeopardized the capacity building results achieved with the PGE up, until
1998, it did not invalidate them and its impact continues to be substantial.
Following the installation of a Government of National Unity (GUN), in 1999, PGE played an important
role in helping to restore the public financial system (the Inland Revenue, Customs, Budget and Treasury
Departments), through the provision of technical assistance and re-equipping damaged or looted
departments. This assistance also helped in the satisfactory implementation of the Post Conflict
Emergency Assistance, financed by the IMF, which laid the foundations for reactivating the process for
eligibility to the HIPC Initiative.
With regard to the degree of satisfaction of the beneficiaries, interviews with ex-Finance Ministers,
Directors-General and technicians, indicate that more than 90% were satisfied with the assistance
received from the project; 85% confirmed that the training received under the projecthad been the only
formn of updating their skills. However, many of the interviewed were disappointed that, in the last four
years, the turnover of staff had made it difficult to apply the skills and knowledge that had been ac quired
through the training and skills transfer from technical assistants.
Taking into account the results achieved during the life of the project, the GOGB notes and requests a
follow-up project. The main reason being that the reforms which had been undertaken are irreversible,
that there is a commitment to move forward with harmonization with the WAEMU and that these efforts
would be very well assisted through a project similar to the PGE, particularly with regard to Fiscal,
Customs, and Budget Reforms, currently under way. The current Minister of Economy and Finance, who



- 13 -
knows the project well, has emphasized the importance of such a follow-up project in view of the
challenges posed by the commitments undertaken by the Government in the context of the I-PSRP and
the HIPC Initiative.
In the Government's opinion, a follow-up PGE project could help strengthen the following areas: (i)
consolidation and further development of the broad-based sales tax (IGV) and its transformation into a
value-added tax (VAT); (ii) strengthening of the Computerized Customs Management System
(SYDONIA) to assist in the full implementation of the CET and to analyze new methods of improving
customs supervision of external trade; (iii) implementation of the new budgetary nomenclature of
WAEMU, its public finance directives and the computerization of all public expenditure circuits; (iv)
development of a capacity to manage the Government's financial operations and improve its accounting
systems; (v) downsizing and modernization of the public administration; and (vi) strengthening the
Auditor General function (Cour de Comptes).
The GOGB concludes by stressing the positive role played by the Project Management Unit (PMU) in
carrying out activities financed by the project and by emphasizing again the critical need for the
Government to continue to benefit from World Bank assistance in the area of institutional development.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
There is no additional information.



- 14 -
Annex 1 - Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSRI       Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Public Finance Reform
Streamline and modernize budget process   New public finance legislation   Quarterly budget execution reports
for preparation, execution control and  and financial management  published starting in 15996. New
monitoring.                          procedures approved. Recurrent public finance procedu-es
and capital budgets partially    introduced in 1997 to initiate
integrated. Govt. accounts for   convergence to WAEMVU
1995 and 1996 closed and    standards. Recurrent and capital
presented to Parliament. Public  budgets partially integrated.
expenditure circuits        Government accounts for 1995
computerized. Off-budget    closed and presented to
accounts consolidated and   Parliament. Master Plan for
centralized through the     MEF's computerization developed
Treasury.                   and its implementation partially
completed in the area of public
expenditure (i.e. the payroll,
budget execution and Treasury
operations, and TIN). In February
2000, an audit of public
expenditure procedures was
completed. Action plan to reform
public procurement approved in
July 2000. External audit of 1997-
2000 budget outturns being
contracted out and final report to
Parliament planned for later in
2001.
2. Tax Policy and Administration Reform
Increase revenues, streamline and lower    Customs Tariff reform  Domestic resource mobilization
collection costs. Streamline and modernize implemented. New Customs    strengthened through improved tax
tax legislation to simplify and improve  Code adopted and implemented. administration. Taxpayer
revenue collection.                  New Exemption Regime         Identification Number (TIN)
adopted. Investmnent Code   introduced in April 1998. Tax
updated. Tax legislation    reforms enacted in April 1998 and
simplified and codified. Tax   resumed in mid- 1999. Customs
Administration reforms      tariffs further adjusted in August
implemented and a Taxpayer    2000 (maximum rate at 20 percent
Identification Number (TIN)    and number of rates reduced to 4).
introduced.                 Generalized sales tax increase
from 10% to 15% expected to be
ratified by the Parliament soon.



- 15-
Annex 1 - continued
Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR1        Actual/Latest Estimate
3. Public Enterprise Sector Reformn
Design and implementation of the second   Second phase of Public   Reforn implemented in a broadly
phase                                 Enterprise Reform (agreed under satisfactory manner, with 17
the 1994-97 Medium Term      companies put up for tender or
Policy Framework)            liquidated and seven others placed
implemented.                 under management contract. After
the conflict, work in this sector
started to be supported by the
proposed Private Sector
Rehabilitation Project (PSRP),
under preparation.
4. Civil Service Reform
Improved civil service pay and grading  A census of the civil service  Payroll processing was
structure; increased efficiency and   completed. Retrenchment      computerized and centralized at
effectiveness of personnel management    program continued according to  MEF in 1995. A census of the
system.                               targets agreed under the ESAF   civil service was completed at
program, until May 1998.     end- 1996. A census of the military
and paramilitary was completed in
1997. Civil service retrenched by
15% during 1995-97. A review of
civil service pay and grading was
completed in December 1997. In
February 2001, work to prepare a
salary reform was relaunched.
5. Central Bank
Improved capacity for economic policy  MIS computerized and        Central Bank management
analysis, improved accuracy of monetary   production of monetary accounts systems computerized in 1995/96.
accounts and strengthened Central Bank    improved. Strengthened   Entry into WAEMU and adoption
supervision/regulatory capacity in regard to capacity to intervene in the  of the CFAF in May 1997. Stricter
growing private financial sector.     financial system. Banking    monetary policies within the
supervision and regulatory   regional context helped to
capacity strengthened.       considerably reduce inflationary
pressures.
6. Human Resource Development
Enhanced macroeconomic, financial     About 280/year public servants  About 3400 people trained under
management and planning skills.       and some private sector trained  the project. Mostly they were civil
Strengthened national training institutions.  under the project in specialized  servants, middle level staff and
Provide remedial training in basic skills for and general areas.   senior managers, but private sector
middle level technical staff.                                      was also involved.
I   The second column states the end-of-project results expected at the mid-term review.



- 16 -
Annex 2 - Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                  US$ million    US$ million
A. Fiscal and Financial Management                           5.28              3.93          74.36
B. Training                                                   1.76             1.99         112.78
C. Public Sector Reform                                      0.48              0.47          97.92
D. Project Management                                        0.48              0.76         158.96
Total Baseline Cost                                          8.00              7.15
Total Project Costs                 8.00              7.15
Total Financing Required                  8.00              7.15        =       -
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB             Othei          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                          1.30          0.00             0.75          0.00          2.05
(1.30)         (0.00)          (0.65)        (0.00)         (1.95)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00             5.95          0.00          5.95
_ ________________________     -(0.00)          (0.00)          (5.25)         (0.00)        (5.25)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                          1.30           0.00            6.70          0.00           8.00
__________________________   (1.30)         (0.00)          (5.90)         (0.00)        (7.20)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB             Other'        N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.30           0.00             1.63          0.00           1.93
(0.30)         (0.00)          (1.63)        (0.00)         (1.93)
3. Services                      0.00           0.18             4.97          0.00          5.15
(0.00)         (0.18)          (4.97)        (0.00)        (5.15)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00             0.07          0.00          0.07
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.07)        (0.00)        (0.07)
Total                          0.30           0.18            6.67          0.00           7.15
(0.30)   1     (0.18)          (6.67)        (0.00)         (7.15)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2    Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the
project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the
project.



- 17 -
Annex 2 - continued
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of
Component               Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate            Appraisal
IDA       Govt.     CoF.       IDA       Govt.     CoF.    IDA      Govt.  CoF.
A. Fiscal and Financial     4.94      0.31       0.00      3.93       0.00      0.00    79.6      0.0    0.0
Management
B. Training                 1.44      0.35       0.00      1.99       0.00      0.00    138.2    0.0    0.0
C. Public Sector Reform     0.48      0.01      0.00       0.47       0.00      0.00    97.9      0.0    0.0
D. Project Management2    0.34        0.13       0.00      0.76       0.00      0.00    223.5    0.0    0.0
I    The disbursement percentages were amended on November 19, 1992 so that IDA funds could finance lIO0/o of total project costs.
2    Project Management cost increases over appraisal estimates reflect the length of time taken to implement the project (i.e., 8 years
as compared to 5 estimated at appraisal).
Annex 3 - Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.



- 18-
Annex 4 - Bank Inputs:
(a) Missions
Stage of Project Cycle                          No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Count                 Specialty               Implementation       Development
Month/Year                                                          Progress           OLjective
Identification/Preparation
5/1991-10/1991                   5      Economists (2), Education Specialists
(ES) (2), Public Sector Management
Specialist (PSMS) (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/1991-3/1992                   6      Economists (2)
ES (2)                            .
Financial Management Specialist
(FMS) (I)                          _
PSMS (1)
Supervision
5/1992                            3    Economist (fiscal) (1), ES (1),            S                   S
PSMS (I)
11/1992                           2    PSMS (1), ES (1)                           S                   S
4/1993                            2    PSMS (1), ES (1)                           S                   S
11/1993                           2    PSMS (1), ES (1)                           S                   S
3/1994                            3    PSMS (1) Hluman Resource Specialist        S                   S
(HRS) (1), Economist (1)
11/1994                           2    PSMS (1), HRS (1)                          S                   S
Mid-Term Review                   5   PSMS (1), HRS (1), Operations               S                   S
(3/95)                                 Analyst (1), Training Consultant (1),
Facilitator (I)
10/1995                           2    PSMS (1), HRS (1)                          S                   S
3/1996                            2    PSMS (1), HRS (1)                          S                   S
11/1996                           3    PSMS (1), HRS (1), Public Enterprise       S                   S
Reform Specialist - PES (1),
3/1997                            3   PSMS (1), HRS (1), PES (1)                  S                   S
10/1997                           2    PSMS (1), HRS (1),                         S                   S
3/1998                            1   PSMS                                        S                   S
4/1999                            2    PSMS (1), Economist (1)                    U                   J
11/1999                           1   PSMS                                        S                   S
4/2000 - ICR mission              2    PSMS (1), Economist (I)                    S                   S
ICR
2/2001                            2     Economist (I)                             S                   S
PSMS Consultant (1)
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                         ActuaL/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                    16.4                            43.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                         39.9                            78.7
Supervision                                  146.9                           478.3
ICR                                            8.0                            21.0
Total                                        211.2                           621.9



-19-
Annex 5 - Ratings for Achievement of Objectives /Outputs of Components
Objectives/Outputs      High     Substantial     Modest       Negligible        Not
Applicable
Macro Policies                            X
Sector Policies                          X
Physical                                                                             X
Financial                                               X
Institutional Development                 X
Environmental               .__                                                      X
Social:
Poverty Reduction                                    X
Gender                                                                            X
Other (please specify)                                                            X
Private Sector Development                X
Public Sector Management                  X                _
Other (please specify)                                                               X
Annex 6 - Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Highly    Stsatr Unaifcoy                 Highly
Satisfactory                             Unsatisfactory
6.1 Bank Performance
Lending                   X
Supervision                  X
Overall                  X           _
6.2 Borrower Performance
Preparation                  X
Government implementation                   X
performance                        _              _
Implementation agency performance                  X



- 20 -
Annex 7 - List of Supporting Documents
Document                                                                              Date
President's Report No. P-5642-GUB                                                     January 24,1992
Development Credit Agreement Cr. 2342-GUB                                             June 24, 1992
CPPR - CAS - Revisdo do Desempenho da Carteira de Projectos da IDA na Guine-Bissau    March 19395
Statements of Mission Objective, Back-to-Office Reports, Aide-Memoirs and Project Status  June 1993 to
Reports                                                                               April 20i)0
Mid-Term Review Evaluation Report, prepared by the Ministry of Finance, Bissau        March 1995
Final Evaluation of the Training Component, prepared by the Project Training Coordinator  March 2000
Project Audit Reports issued by Ernst & Young                                         1993 to 2000
Policy Framework Papers (PFP)                                                         1994-1997
1996-1998
1997-1999
Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Republic of Guinea-Bissau  May 12, 1997
Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit: President's Report and Recommendation, Report    April 17. 2000
No.P7373 GUB
Preliminary Document on the Initiative for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries, Document No.    March 27, 1998
IDA/SecM98- 126
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the Interim  November 30, 2000
PRSP, Document IDA/SecM2000-675
Enhanced HIPC Debt Initiative: President's Memorandum and Recommendation and Decision  December 1, 2000
Point Document No. IDA/R2000-228
Recent Economic Developments, IMF, Document SM/98/52                                  February 20, 1998
Request for Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance, IMF, Document EBSl99/163              August 2:1, 1999
Request for Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance, IMF, Document EBS/99/238              Decembe - 27, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, IMF, Document EBS/00/246                       DecembeX 1, 2000
Ministry of Economy and Finance:
Report on Government Accounts for 1995                                                July 1997
Quarterly Reports on Government Budget Execution and Annual Budget Proposals          1996-199)
Three-year Rolling Public Investment Programs                                         1994-199 
Report on the development of a Government Audit function in the Ministry of Finance of the  April 1993
Republic of Guinea-Bissau, prepared by Coopers & Lybrand Consulting Group, Canada
Review on Civil Service Salary System, prepared by Dr. Guido de Weerd                 December 1997
Independent Audit of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, prepared by Marc Lechantre,  June 1998
Inspection General of Finance, Paris
Audit of the functioning of the SYDONIA System in Customs, prepared by Rene Planes    January 1998
Report on improving the SYDONIA system in Customs, prepared by UNCTAD                 March 1998
Post-conflict exploration mission, to study the technical capacity of the Customs Departments,  Decembei 1999
prepared by UNCTAD
Post-conflict evaluation of the Public Expenditure circuit in the Ministry of Finance, prepared by    February 2000
Jean-Louis Fouilland
Phase One of setting up a Public Procurement System, prepared by UNCTAD/ITC (CCI):    May/July 2000



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24520
SENE AL                                             DUE                                                                                                        PORT                            REGION  BOUNDARIESSE N E G A L
MAUI                                                                                                                                                                   -   IEJERNATIOEUEL SuBo.ie OUNDARIm.n. f, - s.ES V I
Ch.Eg. IECBITPE -GGO
-s-a-w ~         w    j Y                )    -' hiunCdhens  BO                                                                                                                                          GUINEA
ATAL  WT    IC LEONE    C6TE
OCEN            IBRI                                                                                                                                                                     ASSa
YMs~~Mxo  3$tlg ha bo                                                          fY s    o                                       ; 
by T~~~~~~o wow   sarlia   *ff ~ ~ ~   ~       mEtro                                                                ows3
of  isa X                                        @ Efoe  _/K ,s/XM3UINEA-BISSAU                                                                                                                                               1993
=,*                                                   b "shawn                                         J>ic                     _                                  ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS
5gos                                                                                                            CAT l;   : te  fl F] ,   ,    /                      UDA  TABANCA PILOT CENTERS            AIRPORTS
i i _ itt ;tA}VGA telliL6 R bw } / PAVEDROADS = SELECTEDTOWNS~~~~~~~~~~~PAED OAD                                                                     SEECTE) OWN
 VAURITANIA  1) 9 t *\><J/ UNPAVEDROADS 61 REGIONCAPTLS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NPAEDROAS                                                                        EGIN APIAL
. .  , ,  /       t                   f4i7 B-=b                              9      r o - J                                 s    PORT                      * rr; REG ON bOUNDARES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It FOR  REIO BONDAIE
G4G12t  GUINEA  >\<                   ~~~A R C fl I P E I A G O 0IMII
AtLANt        C,N      >)DhOTRE                                                                                              \               >o                                1          o3                   0
MtARCH 1993



