Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3176-GM
Project Agreement
(Poverty Alleviation and Capacity Building Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE GAMBIAN AGENCY FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Dated April 1, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3176-GM 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and THE GAMBIAN AGENCY FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 
(GAMWORKS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
The Republic of The Gambia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
ten million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,700,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that GAMWORKS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a framework agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
GAMWORKS the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to GAMWORKS on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Framework Agreement; and
WHEREAS GAMWORKS, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) GAMWORKS declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out Parts A, B.2 and B.3 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and public works practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and GAMWORKS shall otherwise agree, GAMWORKS shall carry 
out Parts A, B.2 and B.3 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, B.2 and B.3 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) GAMWORKS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, GAMWORKS shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
GAMWORKS, a plan for the 
sustainability of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with 
GAMWORKS on said plan.
Section 2.04. GAMWORKS shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Framework Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GAMWORKS shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Framework Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) GAMWORKS shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A, B.2 and B.3 of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Framework Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
GAMWORKS shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B.2 and B.3 of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
GAMWORKS of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Framework Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GAMWORKS
Section 3.01. GAMWORKS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
Page  3
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering and public utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. GAMWORKS shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. GAMWORKS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) GAMWORKS shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with 
carrying out Parts A, B.2 and B.3 of the Project.
(b) GAMWORKS 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each semester 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than two months after the end of each such semester, 
(A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such semester 
as so audited and (B) an opinion 
on such statements and a report of such audit 
by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; 
(iii)
consolidate the semiannual audit reports for the fiscal year and 
furnish to 
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than three 
months after the end of its fiscal year, the 
said consolidated audit reports; 
and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
GAMWORKS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
Page  4
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify GAMWORKS of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For GAMWORKS:
The Gambian Agency for the Management
    of Public Works
19, Kairaba Avenue
Fajara
The Gambia
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of GAMWORKS, or 
by GAMWORKS on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by the Director-General or such other person or persons as GAMWORKS 
shall designate in writing, and GAMWORKS shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
THE GAMBIAN AGENCY FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Page  5
By /s/ Crispin Grey-Johnson
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications set forth in paragraph 2 
of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,100,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
Page  6
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $75,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits under Part B.3 of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
Page  7
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$150,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GAMWORKS shall carry out Parts 
A, B.2 and B.3 of the Project in accordance with the Framework Agreement, the MOP and 
the PIP and shall not amend the Framework Agreement, the MOP and the PIP or waive any 
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
GAMWORKS shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Parts A, B.2 and B.3 of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, in each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
Parts A, B.2 and B.3 of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter;
(d)
carry out, jointly with the Borrower and the Association, no later than 
December 31, 2000, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out of Parts A, 
B.2 and B.3 of the Project. The said mid-term review shall cover, among other things: 
(i) progress in meeting the Project’s objectives; and (ii) performance by GAMWORKS of 
its obligations under the Project; and 
Page  8
(e)
implement the recommendations of the review referred to in subparagraph 
(d) of this paragraph, as agreed with the Borrower and the Association and set out in 
a time-bound action plan satisfactory to the Association. 
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
3.
GAMWORKS shall ensure that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless 
GAMWORKS shall have determined on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance 
with the guidelines set forth in the MOP, that the Subproject satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified in more detail in such MOP, which shall include: 
(a)
the Subproject shall be for a basic infrastructure services, including 
water supply, roads and footpaths, sanitation systems, solid waste management, storm 
water drainage, security lighting, classrooms, health centers, vocational training 
centers, markets and car parks; 
(b)
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary; 
(c)
the Subproject shall be targeted at lower income group beneficiaries; 
(d)
the Subproject shall be designed in such a way that its mode of 
implementation is labor-intensive and provides maximum employment opportunities within 
sound economic parameters; 
(e)
the Subproject shall be designed in such a way that its operation and 
maintenance shall be sustainable; and
(f)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower, relating to health, safety and environmental 
protections, as well as the Association’s applicable guidelines. 
Terms and Conditions of Subprojects Financing
4.
In financing Subprojects, GAMWORKS shall enter into an agreement with the 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions which shall include the following:
(a)
financing by GAMWORKS to be on a grant basis, except that each 
Beneficiary shall make a contribution as provided for in the MOP;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the MOP, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of GAMWORKS to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(e)
the right of GAMWORKS to obtain all information as GAMWORKS or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the Subproject; and
(f)
the right of GAMWORKS to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon the failure by 
the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the relevant agreement.
Page  9
