                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR0000292




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-31760 AND IDA-31761)




                                    ON

                                 A CREDIT

                                    AND

                         A SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.4 MILLION
                        (US$19 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                       GOVERNMENT OF THE GAMBIA

                                   FOR A

         POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                               JUNE 18, 2007




Water and Urban 2
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange Rate Effective April 2007)

                         Currency Unit = Gambian Dalasi (GMD)
                                  GMD1.00 = US$0.04
                                 US$1.00 = GMD27.40

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­ December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGETIP     Agence d'Exécution des Travaux d'Intérêt Public (Public Works Agency)
BAC        Brikama Area Council
BCC        Banjul City Council
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBO        Community Based Organization
CDD        Community Driven Development
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DG         Director General
DoSLGL     Department of State for Local Government and Lands
DoLS       Department of Land and Surveys
GACCON     Gambian Association of Construction Contractors
GACSUL     Gambian Association of Construction Consultants
Gamworks   Gambian Agency for the Management of Public Works
GBA        Greater Banjul Area
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GMD        Gambian Dalasi
GOTG       Government of The Gambia
ICRR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
KMC        Kanifing Municipal Council
LGA        Local Government Authority
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS        Management Information System
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NEA        National Environment Agency
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PACAB      Poverty Alleviation and Capacity Building Project
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PCO        Project Coordinating Officer
PDO        Project Development Objective
PIP        Priority Investment Program
PWCB       Public Works and Capacity Building Project
RIAPs      Revenue Improvement Action Plan
RMS        Rates Management System
TA         Technical Assistance



                             Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                           Country Director: Madani M. Tall
                            Sector Manager: Eustache Ouayoro
                       Project Team Leader: Christian Diou
                          ICR Team Leader: Christian Diou




                                         ii

                                                  The Gambia
                     Poverty Alleviation and Capacity Building Project
                                                  CONTENTS




A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................. iv
C. Ratings Summary...................................................................................................... iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... v
F. Results Framework Analysis..................................................................................... vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... ix
H. Restructuring............................................................................................................. ix
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................... x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 16
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 21
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 22
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 26
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 27
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
MAP IBRD 33409R




                                                      iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                    GM-Poverty All &
Country:                Gambia                Project Name:
                                                                    Muni Dev (FY99)
                                                                    IDA-31760, IDA-
Project ID:             P057997               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    31761
ICR Date:               05/29/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOV. OF THE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    GAMBIA
Original Total
                        XDR 13.4M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 13.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
GAMWORKS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/11/1998    Effectiveness:       09/30/1999         09/30/1999
Appraisal:             11/08/1998    Restructuring(s):                       06/21/2005
Approval:              03/16/1999    Mid-term Review:                        11/05/2001
                                     Closing:             12/31/2003         12/31/2006

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory



C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                           iv

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                          No                                          None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  5                5
General education sector                                         36                36
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector            16                16
Health                                                           36                36
Sub-national government administration                             7                7




Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                            Primary          Primary
Municipal finance                                              Secondary        Secondary
Municipal governance and institution building                  Secondary         Primary
Other urban development                                         Primary          Primary
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                       Primary          Primary

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli K. Ezekwesili             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:         Madani M. Tall                     Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:           Eustache Ouayoro                   Letitia A. Obeng
Project Team Leader:      Christian Diou                     Noel M. Carrere
ICR Team Leader:          Christian Diou
ICR Primary Author:       Jagdish K. Bahal




                                             v

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The initial Project objectives were to: (i) reduce the backlog of public infrastructure and assets,
and improve their maintenance; (ii) alleviate poverty through creation of temporary jobs and
improvements to the selection of small to medium-size investments; and (iii) strengthen the
technical and managerial capacity of local authorities (with an emphasis on their financial
situation), local private consultants and contractors and Gamworks (as the specialized contract
management agency on behalf of the beneficiaries).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The revised objective of the Project, following Mid-Term Review (MTR) in May 2001, was to
contribute to improved living conditions of the urban population, and the poor in particular,
through: (i) provision of public infrastructure and services based on demand and fulfillment of
clearly defined criteria; and (ii) implementation of a capacity building program aimed at
improving the Local Government Authorities resource mobilization and management (formally
approved at Supplemental Credit Board Approval).

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Access to services: Number of persons benefiting from at least one sub-project.

Value                                       300,000 persons    360,000
quantitative or (No subproject)             (Original Credit)  persons (incl. 378,200
Qualitative)                                                   Supplemental
                                                               Credit)
Date achieved 09/30/1999                    12/31/2006         12/31/2006      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %         The number of persons benefiting from at least one sub-project exceeded the

achievement)     target by 5%.

Indicator 2 :    Level of resource mobilization by LGAs.
                                                                               9% per year in real

Value                                       +5% per year in    +6% per year    terms from 2000 -

quantitative or 2000 actual revenues        real terms until   in real terms in2006 (cumulative

Qualitative)                                2004               2005 and 2006   increase for the
                                                                               same period in real
                                                                               terms was 65.8%)
Date achieved 09/30/1999                    12/31/2006         12/31/2006      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %         The rate of increase in revenue exceeded the target by over 50%.
achievement)




                                               vi

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Amount disbursed on subprojects.
                                         SDR 6.7 million
Value                                    without             SDR 8.7 with
(quantitative  0                         Supplemental        Supplemental SDR 9.98 million
or Qualitative)                          Credit              Credit

Date achieved 09/30/1999                 12/31/2006          12/31/2006      12/31/2006
Comments       The 79 subprojects which were planned to be implemented under the original
(incl. %       credit (72) and the Supplemental Credit (7) were implemented. The cost of
achievement)   implementing the 79 subprojects was 14.7% higher than the estimated cost.
Indicator 2 :  Job creation: Amount of salaries paid.
                                                             23% of labor
                                                             cost in

                                         20% of labor cost   contracts for

                                         in contracts for    works           23.2% of labor

                                         works (Original     (Supplemental costs in works

                                         Credit).            Credit).        contracts.

Value                                                        27,000 person 29,275 person
(quantitative  None                      20,000 person       months          months unskilled
or Qualitative)                          months unskilled
                                         labor.              unskilled labor labor


                                         6,500 person        8,900 person 9,808 person

                                         months skilled      months skilled months skilled

                                         labor.              labor (with     labor.
                                                             Supplemental
                                                             Credit).

Date achieved 09/30/1999                 12/31/2006          12/31/2006      12/31/2006

Comments       The labor cost of SDR 2.32 million in works contracts of SDR 9.98 million

(incl. %       represents 23.2% of the cost of contracts for works. This exceeded the target of

achievement)   20% and 23% labor cost in contracts for works under the original credit and the
               supplemental credit respectively.
Indicator 3 :  Percentage of Project in poor areas.
Value                                    45% (Original       50% (with
(quantitative  None                      Credit)             Supplemental 73.4% in poor areas
or Qualitative)                                              Credit)
Date achieved 09/30/1999                 12/31/2006          12/31/2006      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The 79 subprojects implemented met the eligibility criteria. 73.4% of the

achievement)   subprojects were implemented in poor areas against a target of 50%.

Indicator 4 :  Number of persons trained in LGA.
Value          None                      110 persons         130 persons     250 persons



                                            vii

(quantitative                              (Original Credit)    (with
or Qualitative)                                                 Supplemental
                                                                Credit)
Date achieved 09/30/1999                   12/31/2006           12/31/2006     12/31/2006

Comments       A total of US$383,236 from the budget of US$463,000 was spent on training 250

(incl. %       persons in computer applications, financial management and O&M with 89.8%

achievement)   of the trainees satisfied with the training. The number of staff trained exceeded
               the target by 92.3%.
Indicator 5 :  Percentage of persons satisfied with training.
Value
(quantitative  None                        90%                                 89.8%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/1999                   12/31/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       89.8% of the persons were satisfied with training against a target of 90% thus

achievement)   almost meeting the target.

Indicator 6 :  Number of LGA/Consultants/Contractors entering in the request-driven program.
                                                                LGA: 8
                                           LGA: 8               Consultants /
Value                                      Consultants /        Contractors:   8 LGAs
(quantitative  None                        Contractors: 200     240 (with
or Qualitative)                            (Original Credit)    Supplemental 367
                                                                Credit).

Date achieved 09/30/1999                   12/31/2006           12/31/2006     12/31/2006
Comments       USD115,881 from the budget of $124,000 was spent on Training, Workshops
(incl. %       and Technical Assistance (TA) to the private contracting and consulting firms.
achievement)   367 persons were trained. The target was exceeded by 52.9%.
Indicator 7 :  Number of LGA entering in a self assessment program.
Value
(quantitative  None                        8                                   8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/1999                   12/31/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :  Number of subprojects.
Value                                      75 (Original         79 (with
(quantitative  None                        Credit)              Supplemental 79
or Qualitative)                                                 Credit)
Date achieved 09/30/1999                   12/31/2006           12/31/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The planned 79 subprojects were implemented at a cost of US$16.25 million.

achievement)   The target was therefore fully met.




                                             viii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
No.     Date ISR
        Archived               DO                     IP                Disbursements
                                                                        (USD millions)
 1     06/30/1999           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       0.00
 2     12/15/1999           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       1.44
 3     06/13/2000           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       2.00
 4     11/09/2000           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       3.02
 5     05/10/2001           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       4.05
 6     11/08/2001           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       5.34
 7     12/20/2001           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       5.37
 8     04/03/2002           Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                      6.14
 9     10/10/2002           Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                      7.02
10     12/16/2002         Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                      7.15
11     05/30/2003         Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                       7.79
12     06/20/2003           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       7.82
13     06/27/2003         Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                       7.82
14     12/01/2003         Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                       8.10
15     05/21/2004         Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                       8.94
16     06/29/2004           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      10.56
17     11/29/2004           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      12.29
18     05/30/2005           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      14.05
19     12/06/2005           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      14.78
20     05/30/2006           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      15.98
21     11/17/2006           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      17.38



H. Restructuring

                              ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring      Board       Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)        Approved                  Restructuring
                PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                                 DO     IP     in USD
                                               millions
                                                           The number of subprojects to be
                                                           implemented under the Project
                                                           was reduced at MTR from 110
                                                           to 75 due to unexpected cost
                                                           increases and increased to 79
                                                           when the supplemental credit
  06/21/2005          N           S     S        14.05     was approved. These additional
                                                           subprojects were part of those
                                                           previously identified to be
                                                           implemented under the Credit.
                                                           This enabled the Project to fully
                                                           meet its objective of increasing
                                                           access to urban/infrastructure


                                          ix

                        ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring   Board   Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)    Approved               Restructuring
             PDO Change                                  Key Changes Made
                         DO     IP      in USD
                                        millions
                                                   services by implementing an
                                                   additional seven subprojects
                                                   including the upgrade of the
                                                   Bakoteh dumpsite in Banjul.



I. Disbursement Profile




                                   x

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country Context. The Gambia is one of the smallest countries on the African continent with
11,295 square kilometers, and ranks 160th out of 173 countries in the United Nations Human
Development Index. The country consists of the two banks of the Gambia River, densely
populated by about 1.3 million people. The Gambia's relationship with its closest neighbor,
Senegal, is cordial. Europe is the country's largest trading partner. The Gambian Government
continues to consolidate its relationship with the UK, US, EU among others, in order to benefit
from trade and development assistance. The Gambia is a member of the Economic Community
of West African States (ECOWAS) and the West African Monetary Zone (WAMZ).

Economic Development. The Gambian economy is primarily dependent on re-exports, tourism
and agriculture (groundnuts). The economy suffered a serious setback after 1994 due to the
sanctions imposed by international donors, a decline in tourism, and the devaluation of CFA franc
which reduced the country's re-export trade. Economic growth slowed again in 1997 due to a
very poor agricultural season when groundnut production fell by almost half. The economy
recovered and the country enjoyed a steady growth from 1998 to 2002, then the economy shrank
by 3.2 percent due to policy slippages and low rainfall. The economy recovered again in 2004,
registering a real GDP growth rate of 8 percent as a result of strong performance in the
agricultural sector. Fiscal performance was particularly strong in 2004, resulting in an overall
balance (cash basis) of 3.5 percent and a primary surplus of 8.2 percent. Combined with the
continued reduction in monetary expansion from 43.4 percent in 2003 to 20.3 percent in 2004, the
inflation rate fell from 17.0 percent in 2003 to 14.8 percent in 2004 and the exchange rate
stabilized at approximately 30 Gambian Dalasis (GMD) per US dollar. In 2005 and 2006, the
exchange rate remained stable at around GMD28 to the US dollar, while the inflation rate
significantly reduced to 3.17 percent and 1.44 percent respectively. However, interest payments
at 40 percent of recurrent expenditures remain a concern, and there is evidence that Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) expenditures have not been fully implemented. In addition,
inflationary fears cannot be dismissed with the present risk of continued high petroleum prices.

Sector Strategy and the project. The broad objective of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
reviewed by the Board on September 10, 1998 was to achieve a rapid, broad-based, export-
oriented, sustained increase in GDP per capita that would reduce poverty. This was to be
achieved through a two-pronged approach that:
(a) supported macroeconomic priorities aimed at rapid growth, in excess of the population growth,
with particular focus on private sector development and (b) reduces poverty and improves social
indicators, in collaboration with key development partners, NGOs, and CBOs through a better
understanding of poverty, direct investment in health and education, improving farmers' income
and basic services in rural areas, and developing training programs to address the needs of the
economy.




                                                1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The initial Project objectives were to: (i) reduce the backlog of public infrastructure and assets,
and improve their maintenance; (ii) alleviate poverty through creation of temporary jobs and
improvements to the selection of small to medium-size investments; and (iii) strengthen the
technical and managerial capacity of local authorities (with an emphasis on their financial
situation), local private consultants and contractors and Gamworks (as the specialized contract
management agency on behalf of the beneficiaries).

In the urban sector, the main objectives of the CAS were to:
(a) improve access, by the poor in particular, to infrastructure, public facilities and services which
were to be achieved by focusing investments in labor intensive small and medium size municipal
projects; (b) help      improve "own source" resource mobilization at municipal level, thus
improving their management and investment decision-making capabilities; and (c) train
municipal staff, local consultants and contractors. These are also the main objectives of the
Poverty Alleviation and Capacity Building (PACAB) Project.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
A review of the Project's PDOs was carried out during the MTR in November 2001, and it was
determined that these PDOs were unrealistic and not well defined. The MTR also noted that they
were presented differently in various sections of the PAD and in the Development Credit
Agreement (the DCA). A formal revision of the PDOs was carried out as a result of the Quality
Enhancement Review as follows: "to contribute to improved living conditions of the urban
population, and the poor in particular through the: (i) provision of public infrastructure and
services based on demand and the fulfillment of borrower/Bank agreed and clearly defined
eligibility criteria; and (ii) implementation of a capacity building program aimed at improving the
Local Government Authorities' (LGA) resource mobilization and management." The number of
subprojects to be implemented was increased to 79, and the performance indicators were
modified accordingly to reflect the revised objectives.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the Project are:
Local Government Authorities (LGAs). The Project was to contribute to the strengthening of the
technical, financial, and managerial capacity of LGAs, notably improving their ability to mobilize
local resources, primarily through collection of property tax, to undertake sustainable investments
relevant to the needs of the majority of the population and to maintain these assets through the
establishment of Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Funds.
Local contractors and consultants. The Project was to help strengthen capabilities of local
consultants and contractors in the public works and construction sectors, through implementing
small and medium size investments by labor- intensive methods.
Local businesses and local urban population. The Project was to contribute to improvements to
urban environment, through the provision of new and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and
strengthening service delivery to meet the social and economic needs of the local population and
businesses. It was also intended to help alleviate poverty through creation of temporary jobs for
low-skilled workers in the public works and construction sector.
Gamworks. The Project implementing agency Gamworks, was to be further strengthened through
Technical Assistance (TA) and training.
Central Government Valuation Unit and the Planning Department. Both these agencies were to
benefit from technical support for revaluation of all LGAs properties and mapping of the core
urban areas.



                                                   2

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Project has three major components: (i) Investments (Part A); (ii) Capacity Building (Part B);
and (iii) Studies (Part C). The Project was also intended to contribute to the financing of project
administration and monitoring (Part D).

Part A: Investments (US$16.0 million) (original: US$13.0 million + supplemental: US$3.0
million). The investments were to finance the construction or rehabilitation of infrastructure
subprojects or public facilities in urban areas. The subprojects were to be submitted by LGAs,
NGOs, or CBOs involved in the provision of services of interest to the population at large, such
as education, health or vocational training. Most investments were intended to be small or
medium size, of the type already dealt with by Gamworks under the previous Public Works and
Capacity Building Project (PWCB). All subprojects submitted to Gamworks were to meet the
eligibility criteria before they were assessed in accordance with agreed appraisal techniques.
Some investments could involve facilities of a more significant size and cost such as markets or
car parks, and since such subprojects would be generating income, they were to be subjected to
special scrutiny by Gamworks and would only be justified if (i) the structure of user fees had
been defined; (ii) the financial viability of the subproject could be proven; and (iii) an acceptable
management structure to operate the facility had been established.

Solid waste collection and disposal system: An investment of US$1.2 million was earmarked for
the establishment of an area wide waste management system for Banjul City Council (BCC),
Kanifing Municipal Council (KMC), and Brikama Area Council (BAC).

Part B: Capacity building (US$1.35 million) (original: US$1.1 million + supplemental:
US$0.25 million). This part of the Project was to include three sub-components:

(i)       Training, TA, and support for Central government as well as local authorities:

         The support was for: (a) the Project Coordinating Officer (PCO), in the form of salary
         and office equipment and strengthening the Government's action in the area of
         community sensitization, and (b) the Valuation Unit in the Department of State for Local
         Government and Lands (DoSLGL), when updating and revaluing properties in the LGAs.
         At the local level, the LGAs were to receive special training and assistance to better
         enable them to: (a) asses and address priority needs in their municipalities; (b) ensure the
         maintenance of their infrastructure and the delivery of better quality public services; and
         (c) improve their resource mobilization and overall management of public service
         provision.

(ii)      Training of local consultants and contractors who would receive specialized training
          through Gamworks to better meet the needs of the beneficiaries who in turn would be
          willing to contribute to the cost of such training.

(iii)     Gamworks was to benefit from: (a) TA in the use of computerized Management
          Information Systems (MIS) from an experienced professional, familiar with similar MIS
          systems in other regional agencies; (b) support to the technical department from a senior
          project engineer to improve its supervision of technical studies, services and works of
          local consultants and contractors; and (c) a management advisor to help Gamworks'
          Director General (DG) adapt the agency to its new range of clients, type of services to be
          provided and modus operandi with these clients.




                                                   3

Part C: Studies (original amount: US$1.2 million). This part of the Project comprised four
sub-components for the benefit of: (a) the LGAs; (b) the Greater Banjul Area (GBA); (c) BCC;
and (d) the urban sector as a whole.

Each LGA was to benefit from physical infrastructure and public services and financial and
management audits of their situation. The audits were to include the development of related
recommendations including action plans for Revenue Improvement and establishment of
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Funds. Each LGA was to also benefit from mapping, street
identification and property revaluation which would provide them the basis to substantially
improve their own-source revenue mobilization.

The GBA was to benefit from the development of a solid waste management system. A study
was to be carried out to define the institutional and financial framework of a solid waste
management system.

The BCC would benefit from a detailed engineering study of the rehabilitation, and improvement
to its storm water drainage and sanitation system, considered a significant health hazard.

The urban sector as a whole was to benefit from a feasibility study to create a Municipal
Development Fund.

1.6 Revised Components
There were no changes in components during implementation. However, amendments within
some of the components were made to include a Supplemental Credit in 2005 (see paragraph. 1.7).

1.7 Other significant changes
A Supplemental Credit of US$4.0 million was approved in October 2005. The original allocation
was increased by US$4.0 million as follows: Investments (US$3.00 million) plus contingencies
of US$0.25 million, Capacity Building (US$0.25 million), and Project Administration and
Monitoring (US$0.50 million).         The Government's supplemental contribution amounts to
US$0.20 million.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory, based on the:

    (a) Consistency of objectives with the priorities of urban development as reflected in the
         Governments' CAS.
    (b) Extent of client consultations and participation, which fostered ownership of the Project
         by the participating LGAs and local communities and ensured that the Project sub-
         components, particularly the subprojects, were selected by the LGAs in consultation with
         the communities, who were the ultimate beneficiaries.

The Project's objectives were clear and realistic, with the exception of the objective to alleviate
poverty through the creation of temporary jobs and improvements to the selection of small-to
medium-size investments, which should aim at upgrading the living environment of the poor.
This particular objective was too ambitious and was hence revisited at MTR and subsequently
dropped, and the Project focus primarily remained on provision of public infrastructure and assets,
including improvement of maintenance, and strengthening LGA capacity. Project design took



                                                  4

into account the experience of Gamworks in implementing the PWCBP, predecessor to PACABP,
and experience of the Agence d'Exécution des Travaux d'Intérêt Public (AGETIP) (Public Works
Agency) projects in the sub-region. The AGETIP model has proven successful in providing a
viable and low cost method for execution of public works and services. Support was provided to
the contractors and consultants in the construction sector through the provision of training
commissioned by Gamworks in accordance with lessons learned in other similar projects. The
PACABP incorporated two major lessons learned from PWCB through the establishment of
O&M Funds to ensure sustainability of investments and revision of eligibility criteria: the first
was that maintenance arrangements for infrastructure and facilities created or rehabilitated under
PWCB were weak as was the financing and planning for maintenance, and second, the criteria for
selection of subprojects was too broad, giving rise to subprojects not benefiting the targeted
groups.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) documented the Project and its background in a
comprehensive manner and accurately listed many of the critical risks to the Project. However,
some of the risk mitigation measures were not adequately identified at project preparation and
needed specific attention at the beginning of project implementation:
        the counterpart funding from LGAs was reduced from 20% to 10% of the subproject cost
        as the result of severe difficulties for mobilizing their counterpart funds; and
        the risk of lack of performance by the consultants and the contractors was mitigated
        through specific components of the capacity building program, including procurement
        related training sessions and a better selection of consultants.         However, this risk
        materialized as Gambian contractors for road construction including pavement (an
        eligible investment) were not available in The Gambia. Gamworks mitigated this risk by
        packaging three or more sub-projects in the same bidding package to ensure that more
        experienced foreign contractors were attracted. This, however, had a slight negative
        impact on the level of labor cost for these contracts.

Environmental Impact Assessments were carried out as part of the design of various civil works,
particularly for the Bakoteh dumpsite in Banjul. The assessment and the mitigation plans were
found to be acceptable by IDA and were subsequently implemented.

The major management crisis at Gamworks in 2002-2003, resulting from the removal of
Gamworks DG by the government and his replacement by a nominated candidate, not acceptable
to the Bank virtually brought project implementation to a standstill. The Bank's realistic and
proactive involvement during this crisis period, including management's united stance convinced
the government to recruit a new DG on a competitive basis. Thus, the change in Gamworks
senior management was brought about through recruiting staff on a competitive basis. The new
Gamworks management team, supported by technical staff in the three key departments
(Technical, Finance and Capacity Building) established in 2004, significantly improved the
quality of management through forward planning and intensive monitoring, and this is reflected
in the successful implementation of the Project.

2.2 Implementation
 1.      Project execution was coordinated by a Project Coordinating Officer (PCO) working
         within the DoSLGL. The PCO worked with local municipalities and associations to
         identify priority needs in poor communities. The studies, TA activities, and investment
         programs were implemented through Gamworks, the Gambian delegated contract
         management agency. The PCO also worked with local partners (LGAs and NGOs) to
         ensure subsequent sustainability of the investments through better maintenance of public



                                                  5

    infrastructure and better delivery of services. Finally, the PCO was responsible for
    supporting the improvement of resources for the LGAs by assisting the valuation unit in
    DoSLGL update and complete valuation of properties.

2.  The Project is rated satisfactory. It was in unsatisfactory status for approximately
    eighteen months, due to a management crisis at Gamworks, the main implementing
    agency. Difficulties unexpectedly arose after the MTR in November 2001, when the
    former DG was removed by the Government and an Acting DG, not satisfactory to the
    Bank, was recruited. The Bank supervision team, the sector management and the
    Country Office remained aligned on the same position for the duration of this crises
    period. This united stand convinced the Government, in October 2003, to embark on a
    complete revamping of the management team. The changes in the management team and
    ensuing strengthening of Gamworks' Board had an immediate positive impact on
    Project performance and led to an upgrade of the Project ratings in April and June 2004.
    The situation since then, to Project closing was satisfactory.

3.  Implementation of subprojects. The Project financed a portfolio of 79 subprojects under
    the original Credit and the Supplemental Credit. All 79 subprojects were successfully
    completed and handed over to the respective LGAs. An ex-post social and economic
    impact assessment was carried out showing that at least one forth of the total Gambian
    population (or 60 percent of the urban population) benefited from at least one subproject.
    The works were carried out by small and medium size contractors using labor-intensive
    methods. The targets for labor cost and number of jobs created for skilled and unskilled
    labor were met (see Table (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators under F: Results
    Framework Analysis). The road works requiring specific equipment were carried out by
    foreign firms.

4.  Capacity building and Training. The Project implemented a series of Training and TA
    Programs for the DoSLGL, the LGAs, the Consulting and Contracting Firms and
    Gamworks. The bulk of the program targeted the LGAs, especially for TA on resource
    mobilization and revenue management improvement as well as training in computer
    applications, financial management and O&M. Significant training activities, workshops
    and TA programs were provided to the private contracting and consulting firms as well
    as the Gambian Association of Construction Contractors (GACCON) and the Gambian
    Association of Construction Consultants (GACSUL), their professional Associations.
    Gamworks' staff was also able to benefit from short-term training in their various fields,
    including procurement, project management and other technical areas, and a new
    computerized management system acceptable to the Bank was put in place.

5.  Studies. The Project carried out most of the studies identified at appraisal: physical,
    financial and management audits of LGs, mapping, street identification, property
    numbering and property valuation, and development of a solid waste management
    system. A pre-assessment of the existing Gambian decentralization system confirmed
    that the conditions were not met for the creation of a municipal development fund and
    led to the cancellation of this study. The Government also cancelled the planned detailed
    engineering study for the rehabilitation of the storm water drainage/flood control and
    sanitation system in Banjul as funding for the works was not available or identified. The
    funds for these studies were reallocated to other project activities. The studies carried
    out had an important positive impact, especially when linked to the TA programs. In
    particular, local resources which significantly increased by 68% in real terms from 2000



                                             6

          to 2006, were a direct result of the Project's activities supported by the studies and TA
          activities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The initial design of the M&E was based on: (i) the performance indicators proposed in the legal
documents; and (ii) a set of specific indicators produced by Gamworks and detailed in the Manual
of Procedures approved by the Bank for all Agetip-like agencies. The data was produced at
contract level and collected by Gamworks. Overall, the system was well designed and user
friendly and enabled Gamworks to effectively monitor the Project. The targets were raised to
reflect the impact of the Supplemental Credit and the performance indicators were fine-tuned
with Bank's approval following recommendations made at MTR to better reflect the outcome and
outputs of the Project and better align them with the revised Project Objectives.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environmental safeguards. Gamworks is in compliance with the Credit Agreement and its
Manual of Procedures:

The Project did not involve any resettlement or land acquisition, and complied with the Bank's
guidelines relating to environmental assessment and mitigation. Two items are to be highlighted:

    a) A standardized guide for carrying out the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of
         small works was produced by the Project. It was reviewed by the National Environment
         Agency (NEA) to ensure compliance with Gambian laws and has been included in the
         Gamworks Manual of Procedures;

    b) A mitigation plan for the Bakoteh Dump Site was prepared and implemented. Gamworks
         organized a Solid Waste Management (SWM) seminar with the Greater Banjul Area's
         LGAs involved and NEA, to detail the final arrangements to be implemented under KMC
         responsibility regarding the operation of the Bakoteh landfill, its management and the
         monitoring responsibilities until closing. LGAs and NEA will identify the next steps for
         the implementation of a SWM system for the GBA, including a new sanitary landfill, on
         the basis of the Project- financed SWM Strategy and further stakeholder consultations.

Legal and Financial Covenants: Gamworks has complied with all legal and financial covenants.
All audits were unqualified and recommendations from the auditors were implemented by
Gamworks.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Sustainability: Sustainability was the key feature in the design of the PACAB Project. In this
context, sustainability, primarily meant mechanisms through which LGAs could ensure O&M of
their public investments. This has been achieved through: (a) budgeting for O&M Funds by
LGAs; (b) implementing RIAPs to increase the LGA's own source of revenues to ensure
adequate revenue streams that can be directed toward O&M in the medium-term; and (c)
implementing in 2005/2006 a revalued property roll based on the mapping, street identification
and property numbering exercise. The computerization of the new valuation rolls linked to the
production of the property rate bills has helped increase revenue from this source. The rates
revenue increased from GMD13.3 million to GMD27.1 million in real terms from 2000 to 2006
allowing improvement of LGA management and the development of O&M.




                                                  7

Follow-up operation to PACAB Project. Preliminary discussions were held with the Government
during the CAS mission in October 2006 and March 2007, regarding the potential areas of focus
of the next Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Options for new lending in FY08-11, including a
follow-up operation to the PACAB, are currently under consideration in the new CAS. If
approved, areas to be addressed would focus on the two key development challenges identified in
the draft CAS and include support to improving: (i) the institutional framework for public service
delivery; and (ii) the environment for economic activities, especially infrastructure in the GBA.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

Indicators linked with Outcomes were all met.

a) Provision of public infrastructure and services based on demand and on fulfillment of clearly
defined criteria: the target was exceeded, with 378,200 persons benefiting from at least one
subproject, versus 360,000 targeted.
b) Implementation of a capacity building program aimed at improving LGA's resource
mobilization and management: the target was 5% increase of actual revenues per year in real
terms until 2004, and +6% increase per year in real terms in 2005 and 2006. This target was met
as the revenue increased by 9% p.a. in real terms.

The other indicators relate to: (i) developing capacities of local authorities, consultants and
contractors which confirmed that targets in terms of persons trained were met, except for the
percentage of persons satisfied with the training that reached 89.8 percent versus a target of 90
percent, thus almost meeting the target. The fact that capacity building activities were all
anchored at Gamworks' made training for consultants and contractors easy to implement and in
turn, successful. However, Gamworks' core mandate is not aimed at managing the capacity
building programs for LGAs, and the set up for an appropriate management scheme will need to
be examined for further development of the LGAs; (ii) the number of subprojects implemented:
the target was met; and (iii) job creation and poverty alleviation: all targets were met or exceeded,
confirming that the Project design had adequately addressed the issues identified during Project
preparation.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objectives, design and implementation of the Project were fully in line with the priorities of
the 1998 CAS and the 2003 CAS, and remain relevant to the objectives of the current CAS under
preparation. There are currently four main areas of intervention for the Bank in the country:
agriculture, industry, public utilities and the social sector. Although initially linked to the 1999
CAS, the objectives of the Project remained relevant until closing date and consistent with the
2003 CAS. The Project was instrumental in helping the Government improve public expenditure
management (using Gamworks), promote private sector growth and enhance equity and quality of
service delivery. The objectives remain relevant to the proposed Bank assistance, based on the
improvement of institutional framework and improvement of economic activities. The design and
implementation of social and economic subprojects and capacity building of relevant institutions
(LGAs, Contractors, Consultants, Central Government agencies and Gamworks) helped achieve
these objectives and will provide a strong basis for further activity.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Part A: Investments (US$16.0 million) (original: US$13.0 million + supplemental: US$3.0
million). This component is rated satisfactory.




                                                  8

Civil works. 79 subprojects under the original credit and the Supplemental Credit were
implemented. The works were carried out by small and medium size contractors using labor-
intensive methods, except for asphalt road pavement and for the Bakoteh Dumpsite which
required foreign firms and specialized equipment not available in the Gambia. The average labor
costs amounted to 23.2 percent of the contract amount against the 20 percent expected at
Appraisal and the 23 percent set-up in the Supplemental. According to Gamworks' estimated
breakdown of labor costs, 60 percent was for unskilled labor and 40 percent for skilled labor
(carpenters, masons, drivers, foremen, etc.). Based on actual unit labor costs (GMD1, 500 per
month for unskilled labor and GMD3,250 per month for skilled labor), this amount represented
about 29,275 person-months of total employment for unskilled labor and 9,008 person-months for
skilled labor. These figures exceeded targets by 1755 person-months for unskilled labor and 908
person-months for skilled labor.

Part B: Capacity building (US$1.35 million) (original: US$1.1 million + supplemental:
US$0.25 million). This component is rated satisfactory.

The Capacity Building Component under the Delegated Management Contract signed with the
DoSLGL implemented a series of demand driven Training and TA Programs for the LGAs, the
Consulting and Contracting Firms and Gamworks.

In the LGAs 250 persons received training in Computer applications, Financial Management and
O&M, while TA was provided to all LGAs on resource mobilization and improvement of revenue
management with 89.8% of the trainees satisfied with the training. In addition, TA in the
development of a computerized database used to capture published data required to measure
poverty, social, economic, environmental, and population issues in all the LGAs was developed
and housed at the DoSLGL. The impact of relevant studies and the provision of training and TA
resulted in significant improvement in the revenues of LGAs and LGAs have established O&M
Funds for maintaining assets funded by the project. The foundation for building LGAs has been
laid but the project has not solved all their problems. The capacity and O&M need to be further
strengthened.

In the private contracting and consulting firms, a total of 367 persons were trained, including
clerks of works, foremen and draughtsmen, in addition to TA provided to the two professional
associations. Although available to all contractors and consulting firms, the impact of this
training was primarily on the portfolio of works managed by Gamworks, leaving room for further
training at a national level.

A total of 117 persons at Gamworks were trained through short-term sessions in their various
fields such as procurement, project management, financial management and other relevant
technical skills. The resultant benefits of the support were evident in Gamworks proactively
managing the project following the management crisis, which led to the successful completion of
the project.

Gamworks: Gamworks developed a Communications Strategy to market its services. It produced
a video highlighting services provided by Gamworks and took stock of the achievements made in
helping clients manage and implement various projects. It also produced a newsletter informing
the public of its activities.

Responsibility for training: Gamworks was able to carry out training activities in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. However, to enhance the pro-activity of the program, training for LGAs
should be reassessed for future operations. Gamworks' main focus should remain on its core


                                                  9

function of assisting entities with contract management, and training or capacity building linked
to contract management including building capacity of Gamworks contractors and consultants.
General training may shift Gamworks focus away from its core function of assisting with contract
management. The management of general training, including that for LGAs, may benefit from
specialized training entities in the country.

Part C: Studies (US$1.2 million). The output of the component is rated satisfactory.

The maintenance of existing and new infrastructure by LGAs is likely to improve as a result of
the overall increase of local revenues, establishment of O&M accounts in the LGAs, the
preparation of annual O&M plans, and increased budgetary provision for O&M expenditures.
LGAs have made a good start, but LGAs and DoSLGL need to ensure that revenue mobilization
and maintenance of infrastructure and services remain a priority of LGAs.

Urban Audits: The urban audits and medium term investment plans were carried out in 2002 at a
cost of US$370,000.       The study provides the LGAs a rational basis for prioritizing their
investments and to carry out systematic rehabilitation and O&M of their existing assets.

GBA Solid Waste Management Study: This study was to help design an effective waste
management system for the GBA and Brikama and a program for implementing the solutions
proposed in the Gambia Solid Waste Management Strategy. The study was completed at a cost
of U$213,000.      The rehabilitation of the Bakoteh disposal site was the priority item for
investment in this sub-sector.      The detailed studies and bidding documents were prepared
accordingly at a cost of US$80,000, but this component could not be implemented under the
Credit due to lack of funds as the bid exceeded the available budget. The solid waste component
(Bakoteh disposal site) was subsequently implemented under the approved Supplemental Credit
and had a strong positive impact on the overall urban environment in the GBA.

Urban Mapping (US$514,000). This component was to improve the availability of land-related
information for LGAs, produce updated digital maps for large urban centers of Brikama and
KMC which are experiencing rapid urbanization. Topographical surveys were used to update
maps for smaller urban centers. This component was completed at a cost of US$410,000 for the
GBA and US$104,000 for the smaller urban centers, enhancing the LGAs ability to better plan
for the rapid urban growth and to maximize internal resources from land related taxes.

Property Identification, Numbering and Revaluation (completed US$225,000). This was perhaps
the most important institutional component of the Project as its objective was to enhance the
internally generated revenue of LGAs through improving property tax base and collection
procedures. The consultants prepared the models to assess the tax burden on sample properties
and also prepared the Rates Management System (RMS). These discussion documents, with a
number of alternative scenarios, and RMS were discussed with all LGAs, PCO and the
Department of Lands Valuation Unit. The thresholds for high value properties were agreed by
LGAs at GMD 500,000 for larger LGAs and GMD 300,000 for the smaller LGAs. The revised
valuation rolls were prepared and made available to LGAs on January 15, 2005.               LGAs
implemented the valuation rolls in 2005. DoLS Valuation Unit prepared the supplementary rolls
incorporating properties that were not captured in the main rolls and the supplementary rolls were
implemented by the LGAs in 2006. The property tax revenue for all LGAs (except BAC)
increased by 19.0% annually from 2001 to 2006 at current prices, and 9.0% at constant prices.

Banjul City Council Storm/Flood Control Study: The objective of this study, estimated to cost
US$50,000, was to establish the present state of the drainage system and to recommend strategies


                                                10

for rehabilitation and improvement of the system. This study was dropped, at the Borrower's
request, as there was no provision for investment funds for storm drainage in the Project, and
funds were not available through other sources.

Feasibility - Municipal Development Fund: This study was dropped as the Borrower and the
Bank agreed that the Local Government financial system is not sufficiently developed to benefit
from a Municipal Development Fund at this stage.

3.3 Efficiency
Cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness methodologies were used to screen subprojects from an
economic perspective. Since most of the subprojects did not have easily quantifiable revenues,
and benefits are measured in non-monetary units, the impacts which can be monitored will come
mainly from: (i) the use of labor and creation of jobs, even if temporary; and (ii) the improvement
of local resource mobilization by LGAs. The road improvement subprojects were typical of
operations carried out under the Bakadaji road and Rev. J.C. Faye road with internal Rates of
Return of 41.6 and 34 percent respectively.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating is based on the fact that the project objectives remained relevant to the
1998 and subsequent CASs, and were achieved through the efficient implementation of the
subprojects and capacity building components despite the setbacks experienced during the
management crisis. One fourth of the Gambian population had better access to services through
the Project, with at least one subproject in the areas of education/health, transport, water, etc.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The most important positive impact on poverty produced by the PACAB was the disbursement of
23.2 percent of contracts for works in labor costs, representing more than SDR 2.32 million in
wages to skilled and unskilled workers. (See section F Results Framework Analysis for details).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Project has played a significant role in strengthening the LGAs capacity in prioritizing their
investment needs (urban audits) and operating and maintaining their infrastructure and services
(establishment of O&M accounts and monthly monitoring system). However, given the history
of LGAs where charges and taxes are not regularly reviewed and implemented, and where
training of staff is constrained by lack of resources, the Government should recognize that LGAs
will need further assistance to develop their technical and managerial capacity.

Building local capacity of contractors and consultants for delivery of quality works and services
remains a continuing challenge for the construction industry and the Government. Although a
number of training modules were delivered to train consultants and contractors during the
implementation of this Project and its predecessor the PWCB Project - which has improved their
capacities - more needs to be done. The construction industry and the Government could develop
countrywide vocational training programs to be implemented by cost sharing between the
industry and the Government.




                                                  11

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The sanitation conditions and urban environment in the GBA benefited from the upgrading of the
Bakoteh dumpsite serving the entire densely populated urbanized area. These works were carried
out under the Supplemental Credit and had a huge positive impact on living conditions of the
people in the area.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
The Beneficiary Survey results are summarized in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Satisfactory

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank was realistic and proactive during the management crisis of 2002-2003, and Bank
management took a united stance in dealing with the crisis which eventually led the government
to accept the Bank's position on both the recruitment of a Gamworks DG on a competitive basis,
and to enlarge and strengthen the Gamworks' Board.           The Bank's appraisal team had the
appropriate broad range of expertise required for such a project, including engineers, urban and
financial specialists. Most of the team members who carried out preparation and implementation
of the preceding PWCB Project also participated in the preparation and implementation of this
Project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Three Task Team Leaders were in charge of supervising the PACAB during the life of the Project.
The current Task Team Leader is based in the Country Office in Dakar and the former TTL was
part of the supervision team up to the Project's closing date. This ensured regular monitoring of
project activities. During the first few years, missions generally tended to be small, consisting of
a Public Finance Specialist and an Engineer and occasionally a Training Specialist. In the
following years however, more specialists (such as Procurement and Financial Management)
from the Country Office participated in the supervision missions. During the management crisis,
the project almost stalled, but once the new Gamworks management team was put in place, the
pace of implementation picked up very quickly.

The Project complied with all financial and legal covenants. Gamworks complied with the Credit
Agreement and its Manual of Procedures. Environmental issues were taken into consideration in
the design of the relevant components or subprojects. The Project did not involve involuntary
resettlement or repossession of land. Subprojects were screened by Gamworks and the absence
of negative environmental impact was one of the eligibility criteria.        All subprojects were
assessed according to the recommended environmental assessment guidelines developed by the
Bank (Simplified Environmental Assessment) for small works carried out by Agetips, and in



                                                12

accordance with the new Manual of Procedures, which was approved by the Bank in 2000. No
substantive changes have been made to this Manual.              The recommendations from the
Environmental Mitigation plans were included in bidding documents and monitored during
implementation. They did not pose any significant environmental or social risk. In addition, a
Guide for the Environmental Assessment of Simple Projects was finalized on the basis of ex-post
Environmental Audit of the subprojects and will be used for future projects.

The Bank was realistic and proactive during the difficult period of the management crisis, and its
firm and united stand finally led to a satisfactory resolution resulting in the strengthened Board
and Management team at Gamworks in October 2003.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank carried out regular monitoring and supervision of the Project. This facilitated project
implementation as corrective measures were taken as problems were identified and technical
support provided as needed. The Project met its Development objectives and achieved all
performance indicators.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Government performance is rated satisfactory.

The PACAB Project was high on the government's priority list of providing basic infrastructure
and urban services to the urban population and the urban poor in particular. The consultation and
participation process included an initial preparation workshop with all key central and local
government officials, consultations with community leaders and residents. The implementation
included a MTR workshop attended by central and local government officials, contractors,
consultants and NGOs. The implementation progress was reviewed and recommendations were
made to improve implementation.

The management crisis at Gamworks in 2002-2003, prompted by the Government removing the
Gamworks DG and replacing him with an appointee not acceptable to the Bank virtually brought
project implementation to a standstill. Eventually, however, GOTG recruited a new DG and
Technical Director, on a competitive basis and expanded and strengthened the Gamworks Board
by the end of 2003. These measures were acceptable to the Bank. The new management team
established in 2004 was supported by technical staff and significantly improved the quality of
management at Gamworks, which is reflected in the successful implementation of the Project
during the following three years. The government proactively supported the management and the
Board of Gamworks during this period to enable it to expeditiously complete the Project.
Government performance was less than satisfactory during the management crises, but more than
satisfactory before and after. Therefore, the Government's overall performance is considered to
be satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Gamworks
The overall performance of the Agency was satisfactory despite the management crisis of 2002
and 2003. The Agency's performance from 2004 until project closing was outstanding as the
Agency was adequately staffed and motivated, whereby the Project was able to achieve its



                                                13

development objectives, meet all performance indicators, and comply with all legal and financial
covenants.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Despite the Borrower's unsatisfactory performance during the management crisis period (from
2002-2003), the Borrower was responsive and proactive before then (1999-2001) and the
following period (2004-2006). The final satisfactory implementation of the Project led to the
overall satisfactory performance rating of the Borrower.

6. Lessons Learned

1.       Improving the performance of local consultants and contractors: Building local capacity
for delivery of quality works and services is a key for the Government, especially in a small
country like The Gambia with a limited market. Although a number of training modules were
delivered for training consultants and contractors during the implementation of this Project and its
predecessor PWCPB -leading to some improvement in their capacities - this should be viewed as
work in progress and it should be noted that more needs to be done. In this regard, a broader
capacity building program is certainly needed and should not be implemented only through
Gamworks to have a better impact on all firms. Also, Government and Gamworks should
facilitate, where possible, international contractors and consultants using local contractors and
consultants as sub-contractors to help build and strengthen local capacity.

2.       Role of Gamworks: Gamworks was instrumental in developing a local capacity for
contract management and improve execution of Bank-financed projects and should be further
supported. Gamworks' focus should remain on its core function of assisting entities with contract
management and training or capacity building linked to contract management. This should
include building capacity of Gamworks contractors and consultants on design and
implementation of civil works to enhance their capabilities, in addition to a broader program at
the country level. The Agency has made significant progress in providing its services for a fee to
other IDA funded projects as well as projects funded by other donors, as shown by the negative
impact on project implementation during the 2002-2003 management crisis which led to a slow
down and created temporary bottlenecks. The Agency must keep its focus on developing as an
efficient entity and strive to reduce its operating cost ratio in the context of World Bank projects
in line with the fees levied by other Agetips in the sub-region.

3.       Continuation of strengthening LGAs O&M capacities: The impact of relevant studies
and the provision of training and TA in a coordinated manner, which resulted in significant
improvements, must be further supported to ensure development of O&M. The revenues of
LGAs grew by 9% per annum in real terms from 2000-2006 and LGAs also established O&M
Funds for maintaining assets funded by the Project to demonstrate the benefits in terms of having
annual maintenance plans and funds to effectively maintain infrastructure.             Some LGAs
succeeded in doing this while others did not. It is hoped, however, that as the revenues have
increased, LGAs will make necessary provision in their annual budgets to finance their O&M
needs. The foundation for building LGAs capacity has been laid, but the Project has not solved
all their problems. Further progress is needed to ensure that the LGAs will consider maintenance
for all their assets and not only the one financed under the Project. This is a long term exercise
and cannot be solved in a single project cycle.

4.       Continuation of strengthening LGAs human resources: LGAs should pay adequate
attention to development of technical, managerial and financial capacity and should receive


                                                  14

further assistance to succeed. Given the history of LGAs where charges and taxes are not
regularly reviewed and implemented, and training of staff is constrained by lack of resources,
both Government and Gamworks should recognize that subprojects' sustainability will continue
only if the human resource constraint is dealt with on a longer term and at country level. At the
same time, the fact that Gamworks has reached a critical mass of activities provides a sustainable
solution for technical staff, provided that the LGAs are able to fulfill their role, particularly in
terms of managerial and financial activities, but also for identification, planning and
programming of investments.

5.       Provision of basic priority infrastructure: In the medium term, LGAs will continue to
rely on Government and donor support for funding, and Gamworks support for contract
management. The present LG finance system does not generate sufficient funds for LGAs from
their own sources to meet their recurrent as well as capital investment needs. The Project has
helped LGs to meet some of their priority infrastructure needs and significantly improve their
resource mobilization through strengthening their tax base and collection procedures. Project
supported studies have also provided the LGAs with the basis for prioritizing their infrastructure
needs. The challenge of meeting the infrastructure needs of the LGAs is huge, considering that
there is a significant backlog, as well as needs arising from growth.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies: None

(b) Cofinanciers. N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders. N/A




                                                  15

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                            Appraisal          Actual/Latest
          Components                        Estimate*             Estimate          Percentage of

                                        (USD millions)         (USD millions)        Appraisal

PART A: INVESTMENTS                              16.00                16.25            101.6
PART B: CAPACITY                                  1.35
BUILDING                                                                1.18            87.4

PART C: STUDIES                                   1.20                  1.32           110.0
PART D: PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION AND                                1.57                  2.60           165.6
MONITORING



             Total Baseline Cost                 20.12                 21.35           106.1

Physical Contingencies                            1.08                   0.00            -

Price Contingencies                               0.00                   0.00            -
              Total Project Costs                21.20                 21.35           100.7
Project Preparation Fund                          1.00                   0.78          77.70
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00                   0.00           0.00
      Total Financing Required                   22.20                 22.13           99.68




(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds                     Type of       Estimate        Estimate  Percentage of
                                           Cofinancing        (USD           (USD       Appraisal
                                                            millions)       millions)
Borrower                                                       3.20          2.16         67.63
International Development
Association (IDA)                                             19.00          20.34        107.04

FOREIGN SOURCES
(UNIDENTIFIED)                                                 2.50          0.00          0.00


* Appraisal estimates of the Original Credit and the Supplemental Credit.




                                                     16

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Project has three major components: (i) Investments (Part A); (ii) Capacity Building (Part B);
and (iii) Studies (Part C). The Project was also intended to contribute to the financing of project
administration and monitoring (Part D).

Part A: Investments (US$ 16.0 million) (original: US$13.0 million + supplemental: US$3.0
million). This component is rated satisfactory.

Civil works.    The 72 subprojects under the original Credit and 7 subprojects under the
Supplemental Credit were implemented. The works were carried out by small and medium size
contractors using labor- intensive methods, except for asphalt road pavement and for the Bakoteh
Dumpsite which required foreign firms and specialized equipment not available in The Gambia.
The average labor costs amounted to 23.2 percent of the contract amount against the 20 percent
expected at Appraisal and the 23 percent set-up in the Supplemental. According to Gamworks'
estimated breakdown of labor costs, 60 percent was for unskilled labor and 40 percent for skilled
labor (carpenters, masons, drivers, foremen, etc.). Based on actual unit labor costs (GMD1, 500
per month for unskilled labor, and GMD 3,250 per month for skilled labor), this amount
represented about 29,275 person-months of total employment for unskilled labor and 9,008
person-months for skilled labor. These figures exceeded targets by 1,755 person-months for
unskilled labor and 908 person-months for skilled labor.

Part B: Capacity building (US$1.35 million) (original US$1.1 million + supplemental:
US$0.25 million). The component is rated satisfactory.

The Capacity Building Component under the Delegated Management Contract signed with the
DoSLGL implemented a series of Training and TA Programs for the LGAs, the Consulting and
Contracting Firms and Gamworks.

For the LGAs, a total of US$383,236 from the budget of US$463,000 was spent on the provision
of training and TA and community sensitization. A total of 250 persons received training in
Computer applications, Financial Management and O&M, while TA was provided to all LGAs on
resource mobilization and improvement of revenue management with 89.8% of the trainees
satisfied with the training. In addition, TA in the development of a computerized database used
to capture published data required to measure poverty, social, economic, environmental, and the
population issues in all the LGAs was developed and housed at the DoSLGL. The impact of
relevant studies and the provision of training and TA resulted in significant improvement in the
revenues of LGAs and LGAs have established O&M Funds for maintaining assets funded by the
project. The foundation for building LGAs has been laid but the project has not solved all their
problems. The capacity and O&M need to be further strengthened.

A total of US$115,881 from the budget of US$124,000 was spent on the provision of Training,
Workshops and TA programs to the private contracting and consulting firms. A total of 367
persons were trained including clerks of works, foremen, draughtsmen, in addition to TA
provided to the two professional associations.

A total of US$272,723 from the budget of US$150,000 was spent on Capacity Building of
Gamworks staff. A total of 117 persons received short-term training sessions in their respective
fields such as procurement, project management, financial management and other relevant
technical skills. The resultant benefits of the support were evident in Gamworks proactively


                                                17

managing the project following the management crisis, which led to the successful completion of
the project.

Gamworks: Gamworks developed a Communications Strategy to market its services. It produced
a video highlighting services provided by Gamworks and took stock of the achievements made in
helping clients manage and implement various projects. It also produced a newsletter informing
the public of its activities.

Responsibility for training: Gamworks was able to carry out training activities in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. To enhance the program's pro-activity; training for LGAs should be
reassessed for future operations. Gamworks' main focus should remain on its core function of
assisting entities with contract management and training or capacity building linked to contract
management. This should include building capacity of Gamworks contractors and consultants in
design and implementation of civil works. General training may shift Gamworks focus away
from its core function of assisting with contract management. The management of general
training, including that for LGAs, may benefit from specialized training entities in the country. It
may be necessary, for future operations, to carry out a study by consultants to examine the
linkages between training providers and training coordinators to: (i) assess the training capacity
versus training needs in the medium-term; (ii) consider the relevance of the training provided and
of that demanded; and (iii) assess the cost effectiveness of training provision including any
duplication. As the PACAB operation closed on December 31, 2006, the Government should
explore and determine if such a study could be carried out in coordination with the DoS
Education, as these issues cut across sectors.

Part C: Studies (US$ 1.2 million). The output of this component is rated satisfactory.

Urban Audits: The objective of this study was to help prepare and present to the respective LGAs
a comprehensive urban database; identify and assemble proposals for rehabilitation and new
development, and prepare and deliver the PIP. The urban audits and medium-term investment
plans were carried out in 2002 at a cost of US$370,000. The study provides the LGAs a rational
basis for prioritizing their investments and carrying out systematic rehabilitation and O&M of
their existing assets.

GBA Solid Waste Management Study: The objective of this study was to help design an effective
waste management system for the GBA and Brikama and a program for the implementation of
solutions proposed in the Gambia Solid Waste Management Strategy. The study included the
production of bidding documents for the construction of the proposed infrastructure and
procurement of relevant equipment. The study was completed at a cost of U$213,000 and the
rehabilitation of the Bakoteh disposal site was the priority item for investment in this sub-sector.
The detailed studies and bidding documents were prepared accordingly at a cost of US$80,000,
but this component could not be implemented under the Credit due to lack of funds as the bid
exceeded the available budget. The solid waste component (Bakoteh Disposal Site) was thus
implemented under the approved Supplemental Credit.

Urban Mapping (US$514,000). The objective of this component was to improve the availability
of land-related information for LGAs, produce updated maps for large urban centers of Brikama
and KMC - which are experiencing rapid urbanization, using aerial photography, and producing
digital maps at appropriate scales. Topographical surveys were used to update maps for smaller
urban centers.     This component was completed at a cost of US$410,000 for GBA and
US$104,000 for the smaller urban centers. The DoLS has established a system of selling maps to
the public.


                                                18

Property Identification, Numbering and Revaluation (completed US$225,000). This was perhaps
the most important institutional component of the Project as its objective was to enhance the
internally generated revenue of LGAs through improving property tax base and collection
procedures. The consultants Deloitte and Touche and PADCO/GAP prepared the models to
assess the tax burden on sample properties and also prepared the Rates Management System
(RMS). These discussion documents, with a number of alternative scenarios, and RMS were
discussed with all LGAs, PCO and the Department of Lands Valuation Unit. The thresholds for
high value properties were agreed upon by LGAs at GMD 500,000 for larger LGAs and GMD
300,000 for the outer or smaller LGAs. The revised valuation rolls were prepared and made
available to LGAs on January 15, 2005. LGAs implemented the valuation rolls in 2005. DoLS
Valuation Unit prepared the supplementary rolls incorporating properties that were not captured
in the main rolls, while the supplementary rolls were implemented by the LGAs in 2006. The
property tax revenue for all LGAs (except BAC) increased by 19.0% annually from 2001 to 2006
at current prices, and 8.7% at constant prices.

Banjul City Council Storm/Flood Control Study: The objective of this study, estimated to cost
US$50,000, was to establish the present state of the drainage system and to recommend strategies
for rehabilitation and improvement of the system. The study was also to assess the environmental
impact and provide mitigating measures to alleviate any negative impacts. This study was
dropped at the Borrower's request, given that there was no provision for investment funds for
storm drainage in the Project, and funds were unavailable through other sources.

Feasibility - Municipal Development Fund: This study was dropped as the Borrower and the
Bank agreed that the Local Government financial system is not sufficiently developed to benefit
from a Municipal Development Fund at this stage.

Part D: Project Administration and Monitoring (US$1.6 million)

The provision of operating cost, at appraisal, including the cost of audits, was underestimated in
the Initial Project at 6% of the Credit amount. It was later increased to about 10%. Although
it was envisaged that Gamworks cost would be on a reducing scale as Gamworks strategy was to
become a fee for service Agency, the management crisis of 2002-2003 slowed down Gamworks
activities, extended the implementation period and led to a significant increase of administration
and monitoring costs. However, Gamworks is now able to operate with a 6%-7% fees excluding
audit costs, a reasonable fee based on the size of the portfolio implemented by the agency in this
small country.




                                                19

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness methodologies were used to screen subprojects from an
economic perspective. Since most of the subprojects did not have easily quantifiable revenues -
and benefits are measured in non-monetary units - impacts which could be monitored will come
mainly from: (i) the use of labor and the creation of jobs, even if temporary; and (ii) the
improvement of local resource mobilization by LGAs. The road improvement subprojects were
typical of operations carried out under the Bakadaji road and Rev. J.C. Faye road with Internal
Rates of Return of 41.6 and 34 percent respectively.




                                               20

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                   Title                Unit         Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Noel M. Carrere        Task Team Leader               AFTU2    Urban Development
Jagdish Bahal          Municipal Finance Spec.        AFTU2    Municipal Finance
John Powers                                                    Urban Planning
Elizabeth Adu          Lawyer                         LEGAF    Lawyer
Bertrand Ah-Sue        Procurement Spec.                       Procurement
Wolfgang Chadab        Finance Officer                 LOA     Disbursement
Ernestina Attafuah     Program Assistant              AFTU2    Program Assistant
Anne Blakely                                                   Urban Development
Aicha Moumeni          Team Assistant                 AFTU2    Team Assistant

Supervision/ICR
Christian Diou         Sr. Municipal Engineer         AFTU2    Task Team Leader
Jagdish K. Bahal       Consultant                     AFTU2    Consultant
Nyada Y. Baldeh        Liaison Officer               AFMGM     Liaison Officer
Maya El-Azzazi         Program Assistant              AFTU2    Program Assistant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                         5                        19.89
  FY99                                       38                        136.98
  FY00                                         7                        25.42

                          Total:             50                        182.29
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                         2                        10.97
  FY00                                       10                         55.42
  FY01                                       18                         66.01
  FY02                                       12                         68.91
  FY03                                       15                         70.09
  FY04                                         8                        43.40
  FY05                                       13                         78.72
  FY06                                         4                        13.66
  FY07                                         3                        24.58

                          Total:             85                        431.76



                                          21

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

An independent study was carried by consultants on behalf of Gamworks to evaluate and assess
the impacts of the Investment and Institutional Components of the PACAB Project.                 The
summary of their findings is presented below:

The Investment Component

During the life of the Project, a total of 79 sub-projects have been implemented in the eight (8)
LGA's between 2000 and 2006 and these have responded to the eligibility criteria. The social
infrastructure, roads and drainage, revenue generation and water supply sub-projects provided
under the Project have greatly increased access to basic services, improved the health status of the
populations, provided income generation and employment creation opportunities, and improved
the living conditions of people which are important indicators for poverty reduction and the
attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). There is evidence from the Focus
Group Discussions (FGDs) and Key Informant Interviews (KIIs) that the sub-projects
implemented under the Project are in line with the priority areas of the Government, identified in
the National Poverty Alleviation Program 1996-1999 and that of the end-users.

The first 72 sub-projects were implemented under the original Credit. The high demand for roads
and pavements (26.3%), markets and canteens (26.3%), and school sub-projects (11.1%) indicates
that access was a priority for beneficiaries who played a key role in sub-project identification.

Areas that were inaccessible, particularly during the rainy season such as the Rev. J.C. Faye and
Bakadaji Roads in the Serekunda Area created all weather access roads thus creating both
financial and social benefits by improving movement in the area, reducing health hazards and
eliminating potholes. For the Bakadaji road, it is estimated that the NPV of the revenue stream
over the Project life at 12% costs of funds per year is D98.236 million with an internal financial
rate of return of 41.6%. For the Rev. J.C Faye road, it is estimated that the NPV is 208.3 million
at 12% of costs with an internal rate of return of 34%.

Education is high on the national and international agenda and the school sub-projects contributed
to improved access for marginalized groups (girls and the disabled), and to the attainment of
quality education for all. The significant gains that accrued under the original Credit led to the
agreement of the Supplemental Credit. This consisted of Sheds for Small Scale Industries in
Basse, the Gambisara Water Supply (Phase 2) and the Brikama and Kombo North Water Supply
Sub-projects, Kayupa Road, the Brikama Car Park in Banjul, and the Bakoteh Dump Site.

Water supply sub-projects constitute 43% of the seven sub-projects of the portfolio of the
PACAB Project. Based on the WHO model for CBA for water supply projects, US$1 invested in
the provision of safe water supply would give an economic rate of return of US$3 to US$34
depending on the region and technology used. It is estimated that for the Kombo North Water
Supply Sub-project (which was provided at a total cost of GMD5,058,615) will yield at least
GMD137,715,375, provided that US$25 is the basis of calculation for the economic rate of return
for every US$1 that has been invested in the sub-project.

Job creation using labor-intensive methods and the promotion of small and medium sized
companies were important benchmarks for the Project. As determined during the beneficiary



                                                 22

survey, a total number of 15,307 person months of unskilled labor and 14,005 person months of
skilled labor were provided during the Project against a target of 27,500 person months of
unskilled labor, and 8,900 person months of skilled labor. The total wages for skilled labor was
estimated to be GMD 50,327,702, and GMD 18,204,850 for unskilled labor, representing 22% of
salaries paid against a target of 23%. However the data was found inadequate by Gamworks, due
to poor monitoring of the subprojects implemented during the management crisis period and the
mix of subproject types used during the beneficiary survey. The data was revised accordingly by
Gamworks to better reflect the actual mix of type of subprojects for the total portfolio of 79
subprojects at 29,275 person months of unskilled labor and 19,808 person months of skilled labor
representing 23.2% of salaries.

One of the obligations of the LGAs under the Project was to develop and put in place
comprehensive O&M plans. Even though some LGAs have established line items for O&M in
their budgets, these are either under-funded or not funded at all, while some of them do not have
comprehensive O&M plans in place.

Environmental Management Plans have been developed, but some mitigating measures have not
been properly implemented by the responsible agencies. Indeed, for the Bakoteh Dump Site sub-
project, the biggest of all sub-projects, the responsible agency - KMC - has yet to procure the
necessary equipment (and capability) to implement the mitigating measures once the site is
handed over to them.

Seventy-nine contracts were awarded; of these, 57 were awarded to local contractors, and only 22,
less than 30% of the total, were awarded to CSE and SINCO SPA which are international
contractors. These were primarily in the area of road sub-projects where local firms generally
lack the expertise to compete in this area.

The Institutional Component
Under the TA and training components, the following achievements were recorded:

C2.1 Support to the LGAs
From the LGA's, a total of 250 Local Government staff were provided with training in computer
applications, financial management and O&M and TA provided on resource mobilization and
improvement of revenue at a total sum of USD369, 177.24 for a duration of 98 days against a
target of 335 persons, for an estimated sum of USD463,000. In addition, motor vehicles,
furniture and equipment were also provided to the LGAs, the Valuation Unit and the PCO at a
total sum of USD390, 027.38 against an estimated sum of USD443, 000.

From interviews of participants attending the training program, most responded saying that they
were very satisfied with the training received and one participant (from the Banjul City Council)
described the training program as "excellent, I have been able to train four other staff members
after the training."

C2.2 Support to the Construction Industry
The Project trained 334 contractors and consultants for a total sum USD 96,421 for a duration of
29 days against a target of 230 persons, for an estimated sum of USD124, 000. Two professional
associations - GACCON and GACSUL - were also provided with TA on the training needs
survey for the construction industry. There was an 88.9% satisfaction at the level of training
received.




                                                 23

C2.3 Support to Gamworks
A total of 102 Gamworks staff against a target of 30 personnel have participated in various short
term training at the local and regional level in their area of competence such as procurement,
project management, financial management, communications, record keeping, etc. The overall
duration of the training programs was 405 days and cost US$265, 523.86 against a target of
US$180,000.

An effective communications strategy has resulted in higher visibility of Gamworks as the
Agency is known by 85.5% of respondents. The airing of the completion and handing over of
sub-projects has also contributed to this.

Improved monitoring and supervision of sub-projects through regular on-site visits and meetings
and tighter screening of contracts has minimized poor performance of consultants and contractors.
The installation of the (HIBTP software) has enabled linkages between the technical and financial
departments to integrate project management data. As at December 2006, the Agency had
complied with all legal and financial covenants.

C 2.4 Studies
The following studies were carried out under the PACAB Project:
1) Urban Audits and Medium Term Investment Plans; 2) Property Identification and Revaluation
Exercise; 3) Solid Waste Management Study; and 4) Urban Mapping Study.

The revaluation of properties in the main Valuation Roll for all eight LGAs was finalized and
LGAs started using the new Rolls in 2005. The Supplemental Rolls were also finalized and
utilized by the LGAs in 2006. The cumulative growth of LGA revenues exceeded 65.8% per
annum in real terms. The Revised Property Revaluation has favorably impacted all the LGAs
except BAK, as figures could not be ascertained for this LGA. Increased revenue flows have also
enabled the Councils to contribute to their O&M Funds despite some difficulties. This augurs
well for sustainability. More than a quarter (23/79) of the projects were implemented in the
Kanifing Municipality.

D. Performance
The Project aimed to provide and rehabilitate 79 essential infrastructure and services in the
poorest areas (50%) with a resource envelope of SDR 9.3 million. By December 2006, 79 sub-
projects were implemented and 73.4% of these were in the poorest areas, with a disbursed amount
of SDR 9.85 million

Against a target of 360,000 persons having access to at least one sub-project, 378,200 have access,
thus exceeding the target by 18,200 persons. The LGA's were to attain increases in revenue (in
real terms) of 5% per year from 2000 to 2004 and increases (in real terms) of 6% per year for
2005 and 2006. The aggregate impact of resource mobilization strategies for the seven LGA's
(excluding Brikama for which data is not available) was 5.856 % real terms by 2004 and 7.55 %
in real terms for 2005/06.




                                               24

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.




                                        25

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Executive Summary of the Borrowers' ICR is as follows:

The Poverty Alleviation and Capacity Building Project (CR. 31760 and 31761 ­ GM), which
totalled SDR 13.4 million ( equivalent to US$19 million), was executed over a period of 7 years
and 3 months, following 3 extensions and supplemental funds to ensure its successful completion
from September 1999 to December 2006.

The revised project objectives were essentially to contribute to improved living conditions of the
urban population, and the poor in particular through the: (i) provision of public infrastructure and
services based on demand and on fulfillment of clearly defined criteria; (ii) implementation of a
capacity building program aimed at improving the LGAs resource mobilization and management.

The assessment of achievement of the objectives of the Project were done by categories and the
following results were obtained: aassessment of the provision or rehabilitation of public
infrastructure and services resulted in outstanding with a total of 79 subprojects being provided to
the LGAs and providing 378,200 persons with access to at least one sub-project; the targets for
the resources to be mobilised by the Local Authorities were substantially achieved as 7.55%
increase per year in real terms in 2005 & 2006 were attained; the capacity building objectives for
the LGAs, the local Construction Industry and Gamworks were substantially achieved as 250
persons from the 8 LGA staff were trained and 89.8% of these trainees satisfied, 334 persons in
the construction industry were trained with technical assistance provided to the two professional
associations, while for Gamworks, the Project developed the capacity of 117 staff members of the
Agency; impressive results were achieved for the creation of jobs and poverty alleviation through
the creation of 29,275 person months of unskilled labour, and 9,008 person month of skilled
labour. Substantial strides have also been made towards establishing the sustainability of the
ideals of the Project through various mechanisms, with one example being the improvement on
the O&M budgets of the LGAs.

The major factors outside the control of the Government and the Agency that slightly dented the
successful implementation and results of the Project include the depreciation of the Dalasi in
2002 and 2003, as well as the delay in counterpart funding. Other unforeseen bottlenecks during
implementation that negatively impacted the Project were the management crisis at Gamworks
during 2001 to 2003 and, more so, the relatively below par capacities and performance of the
contractors and consultants.

Overall, with the continual monitoring of the Project by IDA Supervision missions, the Agency's
performance on the Project has been rated as satisfactory.

Despite the good results achieved by the Project however, the Agency faced and will continue to
face daunting challenges. Chief among these are the low level of capacity, performance and
quality of our local contractors and consultants. Improving the quality of the services of the
consultants and contractors will be a major concern in any future project implementation.

With the accomplishment of verifiable successes on the Project, independent assessments have
recommended that the direct beneficiaries (LGAs) should be influenced to engage the
Government and the IDA for a follow-up project to consolidate the gains made from PACBP.




                                                 26

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                        27

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    Staff Appraisal Report, February 1999

2.    PACAB Aide memoires

3.    PACAB Implementation Status Results and Reports

4.    MOP Report No. 31945 - GM, May 2005

5.    Government's Project Implementation Completion Report

6.    Amended Credit Development Agreement

7.    Beneficiary impact Assessment Report, May 2005 (Sahil Invest management Intl.)




                                           28

                                                                                                THE GAMBIA

                                                                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                            MAIN ROADS

                                                                                LOCAL GOVERNMENT AREA                                                LOCAL GOVERNMENT AREA                                                THE
                                                                                "DIVISION" HEADQUARTERS                                              "DIVISION" BOUNDARIES                                             GAMBIA

                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                RIVERS



              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



                    17°W                                                                           16°W                                                             15°W                                                            14°W



             14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14°N
                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                      Kaolack                                                                                   0    10  20   30    40 Kilometers
                                                                                                                              S E N E G A L
                                                                                To
                                                                                Kaolack                                                                                                         0      10       20      30 Miles



                                                                                                                                                    C E N T R A L R I V E R
                                      C I T Y O F                                                                                                       D I V I S I O N
                                      B A N J U L                                                                                                                           SukutaSukuta


                K A N I F I N G                                             N O R T H B A N K D I V I S I O N                  FarafenniFarafenni                                         Janjanbureh
                                                                                                                                                                                          Janjanbureh
             M U N I C I PA L I T Y                             BANJULBANJUL                    Kerewan
                                                                                                Kerewan                 Gambia
                                        Kanifing                                                                                       Mansa
                                                                                                                                       Mansa
                                                                                                                                       Konko
                                                                                                                                       Konko                                                                 Diabugu
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Diabugu U P P E R R I V E R
                                                                                         L O W E R R I V E R                                                                                            Gambia            D I V I S I O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Basse Santa Su
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Basse Santa Su
                                                         BrikamaBrikama                       D I V I S I O N
              ATLANTIC                                               W E S T E R N
                 OCEAN                                               D I V I S I O N                       KalagiKalagi
                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                      Kolda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                 KartungKartung                                                                                                                                                                            Kolda
                                                                                                                                                                    S E N E G A L
             13°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13°N
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                Bignona
                                                                                     To
                                                                                  Bignona




NOVEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD

                                                                                                                                                                                 G U I N E A - B I S S A U                                            33409R

        2006
                    17°W                                                                           16°W                                                             15°W                                                            14°W

