Report No. PID9030
Project Name                     Sierra Leone-Governance Capacity Building
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID Number                SLPE70201
Borrower(s)                      Government of Sierra Leone
Implementing Agency              Ministry of State Presidential Affairs
Steering Committee for Good Governance
and Public Service Reform
State House
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared:               April 17, 2000
Project Appraisal:               May 25, 2000
Projected Board Date:            June 25, 2000
1.      Country Background
Post-independence Sierra Leone has had a troubled history
characterized by ethnic strife, civil war, institutional
instability and poor governance. After witnessing a growth rate
of nearly four percent per annum during the first decade after
independence in 1961, Sierra Leone saw its economic and social
conditions deteriorate sharply in the 1970s and the first half of
the 1980s. While external developments were a factor underlying
the trend, the more fundamental reason for this decline was
inappropriate government policies and poor governance.
The corrupting influence of Sierra Leone's diamond wealth and the
increased politicization of the armed forces (to the great
detriment of military professionalism and ethics) contributed to
poor governance. The wealth created by illicit diamond trade
diverted profits and assets from State enterprises, and most
notably rice and petroleum marketing encouraged patronage
networks. Misuse of public resources and general economic
decline in the early 1980s led to the erosion of public sector
wages. Public services deteriorated hitting the rural and urban
poor very hard. General poverty deepened and a perceived policy
of exclusion bred frustration and discontent among the youth.
Attacks by the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) that started out
sporadically in the South-Eastern part of the country in early
1991 quickly spread throughout the country. Since 1991,
successive governments have been unable to completely defeat the
rebel forces of the RUF, and a coup d'etat led by disgruntled
junior army officers in May 1997 ousted the democratically
elected government of Ahmad Tejan Kabbah after only 14 months in



office. Though the President was reinstated to power in February
1998 by the regional military forces of the Economic Community of
West African States' Monitoring Group (ECOMOG), the security
situation deteriorated towards the end of the same year
culminating in a well-coordinated attack on Freetown by RUF and
former Sierra Leonean army forces on the 6th January 1999 and
causing considerable property damage and loss of life.
A peace agreement signed in July 1999 now creates an opportunity
for Sierra Leone to rebuild. While this is not the first
agreement of its kind reached between rebel forces and the GOSL,
the conditions necessary for the success of such an accord are
gradually falling into place. The level of national and
international support for the accord is unprecedented. Early
action to implement a comprehensive disarmament, demobilization
and reintegration program, which was lacking in previous peace
efforts, starts the concrete step of dismantling the forces.
The return to Sierra Leone (in October 1999) of rebel leaders
Foday Sankoh and Johnny Paul Koroma to assume their respective
responsibilities as defined in the Peace Accord is a promising
sign of political support from these two parties. A Government
of National Unity has been named and sworn in. The contributions
of both the RUF and the AFRC representatives to the effective
start-up of the disarmament and demobilization activities lend
further hope that the accord will be fully implemented. Further,
a first contingent of a UN peace-keeping force of 6,000 soldiers
arrived in Sierra Leone in mid-November 1999 and began their
deployment thus engendering hope for successful implementation of
the NRRP.
In general progress is being made with regard to security and
safety but the peace process remains fragile. As of March 20,
about 20,000 armed ex-combatants, representing about 44t of the
estimated number of 45,000 of armed combatants, have surrendered
their arms to ECOMOG (West Africa peacekeeping forces) and
UNAMSIL (UN peacekeeping forces). There is hope that higher
rates of disarmament will be recorded in the coming weeks when
more UNAMSIL contingents will be deployed in the Eastern
districts. It is expected that new policy guidelines concerning
the establishment of the new regular army (disarmament followed
by screening) will create the conditions for an acceleration of
the disarmament and demobilization process. A funding gap for
the Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration program (DDR)
estimated at US$23 million for the remainder of the year is close
to being filled. During the last Donor Conference in London on
March 27, 2000, the US, Switzerland and the Nederlands announced
firm new support of about $4 million; Germany, Norway, the UK,
Canada, Sweden, the EU and AfDB expressed their readiness to
consider further commitments in the light of the meeting's
discussions. According to Government sources, the strength of
the new army should not exceed 9,000 men. The US and the
Commonwealth Secretariat are providing assistance for the
organization of presidential and legislative elections, scheduled
for later this year.
-2-



2.      Sector and Project's Background and Objectives
In 1989 the Government of Sierra Leone embarked upon a
comprehensive Structural Adjustment Program for sustained growth
and macroeconomic stabilization. The Government, however, lacked
the requisite human and institutional capacity required to
implement the program effectively. The Public Sector Management
Support (PSMS) Project was thus put into effect in 1993 to
address such capacity requirements in key Government ministries
and departments, especially those concerned with the fiscal and
financial management of the economy. The approved credit amount
was SDR 6.95 million (approx. US$ 10.0 million), with Government
contributing 10t of the total credit amount.
The objectives of the original Public Sector Management Support
(PSMS) Project were to strengthen Government's capacity to
implement its adjustment program and longer term growth strategy,
and to strengthen fiscal management which, in the past, was
largely responsible for program failures.   It addressed immediate
needs for strengthening budgeting, expenditure control,
accounting, auditing and reporting. In addition, the project
aimed to increase public service productivity by supporting civil
service reforms; reduce the Government's role as owner and
operator of public enterprises by supporting divestiture and
public enterprise reform, support aid coordination; and assist in
setting up the institutional structure for the disbursement of
donor program funds.
From its inception, the Project provided support to several
agencies of government, particularly those engaged in fiscal
management. It also supported the regulation of the petroleum
industry (through the activities of the Petroleum Unit),
addressing social policy and poverty issues, technical support
for budgetary preparation in the ministries of health, education,
works and agriculture, and provided funding for local and
external training programs, and the provision of equipment and
other supplies to all beneficiary agencies. The Project began
with eighteen beneficiaries and, by mid 1997, the number of
agencies had increased to twenty-nine.
The unstable political and security environment prevailing since
May 1997 has set back the gains that had been made. These
setbacks are evident in the non-completion of certain project
activities, the total abandonment of some, or the complete
destruction of the structures/systems that had been put in place.
The project has thus lost almost 609 of the equipment and other
items supplied over the years to its agencies.
Some PSMS initial success amid much instability explains, at
least in part, why, after assessing the situation in 1999, the
Bank resumed disbursements in continued support of the Project,
including the acquisition of computer and other high-priority
equipment and the provision of regular funding for various
project activities by the implementing agencies. In doing so, the
Bank signaled its commitment to maintain the dialogue with the
- 3 -



country.
Finally, the project, which was to wind up by February 20, 2000,
has been extended through December 31, 2001. In this connection,
the Bank's Board approved on December 21, 1999 the Interim
Strategy for Sierra Leone with a disbursement limit of US$58
million, of which US$3 million were allocated as a supplemental
credit for the PSMS Project.
This supplemental credit will help the Government respond to high
priority governance emergencies, including: the assessment of the
general functioning of the county's public sector, further
strengthening of economic and financial management practices,
setting up an autonomous revenue authority, initiating a program
of procurement reforms and enhanced procurement procedures,
strengthening the Central Statistics Office, the Economic Policy
and Research Unit and the computerization of the Central Bank,
and preparing a capacity building for decentralization and local
government reform project.
3.      Project Description
A comprehensive assessment of the general functioning of the
public sector will identify additional critical areas and
priorities where urgent assistance will be needed to support
Government's program of reforms and Government's overall strategy
for national reconstruction, good governance and public service
reform during the pacification period and in post-war Sierra
Leone.
These priorities would be covered by the following components:
Formulation of a long-run strategy for public sector management
and strengthening economic and financial management;
Strengthening the Technical Base for Economic Policy Making:
Reorganization of the Central Statistics Office (CSO)
Strengthening the Economic Policy and Research Unit (EPRU).
Revamping records and filing systems in the Cabinet Secretariat,
and exploring possibilities for capacity building of the
President's Office.
Preparation of a Capacity Building for Decentralization and Local
Government Reform Project.
Support the execution of critical studies for economic policy-
making:
Review of the national revenue generation system and formulation
of an action plan;
Review the mandate of the Petroleum Unit to set in place a
-4 -



liberalized petroleum industry;
Develop a strategic framework and implementation arrangements for
the privatization of public enterprises.
4.      Project Costs and Financing.
Project costs are estimated at US$3,300,000 of which IDA would
finance 90%-. The Government counterpart contribution would be
10%- in local expenses, either in cash or in kind.
5.      Project Implementation
The overall coordination of activities will be the responsibility
of the Ministry of Presidential Affairs, which is charge of the
Good Governance and Public Service Reform and to which PSMS
supervision was reassigned in 1996. This ministry will be
assisted by the PSMS Project Implementation Unit. This Unit will
coordinate activities on a daily basis and will handle the
project's financial management function.
Regarding project management, a Project Steering Sub-Committee
was set up to oversee project implementation activities. This
Sub-Committee reports to the Minister of Presidential Affairs
(who is the Chairman of the Steering Committee of the Good
Governance and Public Service Reform Program) while keeping the
Minister of Finance abreast of most developments. The PSMS
Steering Sub-committee comprises a chairman, a member of
Parliament, the Secretary to the cabinet, the Financial
Secretary, the Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of
Presidential Affairs, the Coordinator of the Public Service
Reform Program (PSRP), the Project Adviser and the Counterpart
Project Adviser.
6.      Project Sustainability
As reflected in the latest Government Policy Strategy, GOSL is
committed to the successful completion of the project's
activities whose implementation was hampered by the recent civil
war, institutional instability and poor governance. Government
is even more committed because the project will provide an
opportunity for an improved delivery of public service to the
grassroots through decentralization and the resuscitation and
revitalization of local government operations. Strong ownership
and participation are also key to this project's sustainability.
7.      Lessons from previous IDA operations
The operational experience of Bank assistance to Sierra Leone
reveals that: (i) leadership quality and commitment are key
determinants of policy performance; (ii) participation and strong
ownership by beneficiaries/stakeholders are crucial to
enforceability and sustainability; (iii) effective project
implementation requires well-targeted programs and activities,
with clear performance indicators and benchmarks.
- 5 -



8.      Poverty Category
The proposed project does not have a targeted poverty focus, but
the re-building of governance structures will have an indirect
and influential effect on poverty related programs and poverty
reduction. The view of the Government of Sierra Leone is that
all the goals of the PSMS Project will be better achieved if
Government can extend the project's benefits to reach and touch
the grassroots population through a system of decentralization of
the national decision-making process and a subsequent improvement
of the public service delivery to the masses.
9.      Environmental Aspects
In accordance with the Association' operational directive on
environmental assessments (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed
project would be placed in Category C as it will have no direct
negative impact on the environment and therefore does not require
an environmental assessment.
10.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Rudy R. Chizungu
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4817
Fax:        (202) 473-8368
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain
components may not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 5, 2000.
- 6 -



