Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3462-SL
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Public Sector Management Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 14, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3462-SL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below, with the modifications 
set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors 
of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is
prohibited by 
a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
(b)
“HIV” means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus; 
(c)
“IEC” means information, education and communication; 
(d)
“OMU” means the Borrower’s Oversight and Monitoring Unit referred to in 
Part A (f) (ii) of the Project;paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Petroleum Unit” means the Petroleum Unit referred to in Part B (ii) (B) 
of the Project;
(f)
“Project Executing Agencies” means the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower participating in the Project;
(g)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 
1 of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the Project Implementation 
Unit referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“PRSP” means the poverty reduction strategy paper to be prepared by the 
Borrower under Part B of the Project; and
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2011 and ending December 1, 2040. [Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2020, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. [Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on ____________________, ____ shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and 
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
Page  4
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through the Project Executing Agencies with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and economic practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
AgreementAgreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
Page  5
the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a Project Implementation 
Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has established a Project accounting system satisfactory to 
the Association; and
(c)
the Borrower has appointed independent auditors to carry out annual 
audits of the Project accounts.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  6
The Financial Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address: 
MINFIN
Freetown
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
By /s/ John Leigh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
    540,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
  1,620,000
100% 
services including
Page  7
audit fees
(3)
Training
    150,000
100%
(4)
Operating Costs
    240,000
90%
(5)
Unallocated
    150,000
TOTAL
  2,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and and
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs (not 
related to training) arising under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, 
fuel, equipment, office rent, supplies, utilities, consumables, travel and 
accommodation,  excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
270,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after July 1, 2000.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure: (a) for goods under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent each (other than the first two such contracts to be financed under 
the Credit); and (b) for consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding: (i) 
$50,000 each for consulting firms (other than the first two such contracts to be 
financed out of the Credit); and (ii) $20,000 each for individual consultants (other 
than the first two such contracts to be financed under the Credit), all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s efforts to enhance its 
capacity to manage the recovery and rehabilitation of its economy through the 
strengthening of its institutions and processes for economic policy planning, 
formulation and implementation.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening the Technical Base for Economic Policy Making
Strengthening the Borrower's economic policy making including with respect to:
(a)
the Ministry of Finance, strengthening the fiscal, financial and economic 
management;
(b)
the Economic Policy and Research Unit, strengthening the Unit's 
capability to carry out economic policy analysis including provision to the Unit of 
adequate staff including local personnel employed on short-term contract basis; 
(c)
the Bank of Sierra Leone, the upgrading of its computing capacity, 
including: (A) installation of network backbone cabling at the Old Office of the Bank 
of Sierra Leone; (B) cabling of its Kenema branch offices for a peer-to-peer network; 
Page  8
(C) acquisition of network-ready computers; (D) expansion of the Internet facility; 
(E) establishment and maintenance of a website; (F) establishment of a Computer 
Training Center; and (G) upgrading of old computers;
(d)
the Central Statistics Office, restructuring and re-establishment of the 
Borrower’s statistical system, including the reorganization of the Central Statistics 
Office; 
(e)
the Office of the President, strengthening of the capacity, 
organizational structure and operations of the said Office, including:
(f)
(i)
the strengthening of related units, organs and branches working in 
support 
of the Office of the President;
(ii)
the establishment of an Oversight and Monitoring Unit;
(iii)
provision of technical advisory services;
(iv)
acquisition of vehicles, equipment and supplies; and
(v)
training of Project staff;
(g)
the Office of the Attorney General, strengthening of the said Office 
through: (i) (A) the provision of technical advisory services, and (B) training of 
staff, and (ii) the acquisition of equipment and supplies; and
(h)
the Ministry of Public Affairs, strengthening of the said Ministry 
through the acquisition of vehicles, equipment and supplies.
Part B:
Studies for Economic Policy-Making and Public Sector Management
The development by the Borrower of an appropriate development strategy and such 
other studies and preparatory activities relating to the Borrower's structural reform 
program, including: (i) the carrying out of a comprehensive assessment of the general 
functioning of the public sector in the Borrower’s territory; and (ii) the undertaking 
of critical studies on revenue generation and privatization of public enterprises, 
including: (A) the carrying out of a review of the revenue generation system and the 
formulation of an action plan to facilitate revenue generation, (B) the carrying out 
of a review of the best means of restructuring the responsibilities and organization 
of the Petroleum Unit in order to convert it into a sound self-financing unit, and (C) 
the development of a strategy framework, and implementation arrangements, for poverty 
reduction in the Borrower's territory.
Part C:
HIV/AIDS
Support for the Borrower’s IEC campaign designed to assist in the prevention and 
control of HIV/AIDS through the creation in the public of an awareness of the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic.
1.
The establishment of a Project Coordination Unit satisfactory to the Association 
to assist MFPED in the carrying out of the privatization program of the Borrower.
2.
The provision and utilization of technical advisory services to provide training 
for Project staff including the provision of necessary technical expertise in such 
fields as privatization and regulation and in such Project management skills as 
project planning, accounting, auditing, and procurement.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Page  9
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods: (a) estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more; and (b) the first two contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or less, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  10
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to services of consultants to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$50,000; and (ii) each of the first two contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Page  11
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more; and (ii) the first 
two contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $20,000 or less, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval 
shall have been given.
(d)
Each contract for: (i) the employment of consultants under single source 
selection procedures; (ii) all terms of reference irrespective of the value of the 
contract; and (iii) the financial audit of the Project, shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Manual (including a financial manual) in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association setting out details of all procedures and guidelines 
(including procurement/contract management procedures) to be followed in the 
implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual 
if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
2.
(a)
The Minister of Presidential Affairs and Chairman of the Steering 
Committee for God Governance, assisted by a Steering Sub-Committee and a Project 
Implementation Unit, shall be responsible for the overall coordination of Project 
implementation.
(b)
The Steering Sub-Committee's membership and its terms of reference shall 
be satisfactory to the Association; and its functions shall include the review and 
approval of annual work programs of all Project Executing Agencies. 
(c)
The Project Implementation Unit shall comprise a Project advisor, an 
Administrative and accounting officer and other support staff.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) cause the Project Executing Agencies to: (i) prepare for 
their respective components of the Project annual work programs satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) furnish the said annual work programs (A) no later than March 31 
each year first to the Steering Sub-committee for its review and comments, and (B) 
thereafter no later than May 15 each year, to the Association for its approval.
(b)
(i) jointly with the Association, carry out, on or before February 1, 
2002, a mid-term review of Project implementation and performance, with particular 
reference to institutional development strategy, project scope, implementation 
arrangements, training and skills transfer; and (ii) thereafter carry out such 
corrective actions as the Borrower and the Association shall determine in accordance 
with a time schedule satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
Page  12
6 to this Agreement: (i) the carrying out by the Borrower of the Project; and (ii) the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, no later than August 31 of each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on (i) the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project, during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project; and (ii) the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association by September 30 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
(b)
The Borrower shall employ and assign to PCU a fulltime communications 
officer with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. The 
Communications Officer shall report to PCU’s director and his functions shall include: 
(i) overall responsibility for the management of the Borrower’s strategy under the 
Project; (ii) regular meetings with key personnel of the Borrower to determine 
strategic options and planned actions; and (iii) outsourcing of individual tasks that 
cannot be undertaken in-house, such as opinion research and advertisement production.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $350,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $175,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall 
Page  13
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the [respective] Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categoriy[ies], and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
Page  14
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
(a)
An Independent Revenue Authority has been designed and established; 
(b)
a functioning computerized system with internal and external network has 
been installed at the Bank of Sierra Leone; 
(c)
the Central Statistics Office has been reorganized and has become 
operational and the statistical system has been restructured and reestablished; 
(d)
OMU has been established for monitoring implementation of decisions of 
the Borrower and its Cabinet;
(e)
a comprehensive assessment of the Borrower’s public sector has been 
completed and a long-term strategy has been formulated;
(f)
enhanced quality of PRSP and PRSP ownership and consultation has been 
broadened; and 
(g)
public awareness of HIV/AIDS has been enhanced.
