RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                   Report No. P-758
This report was prepare,d for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
TIHE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR AN
INTERIM LIVESTOCK PROJECT
December 4, 1969



REPORT AND RECOMMEDfATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TBE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF
BOLIVIA FCR AN INTERIM LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit in various currencies equivalent to US$1.4 million to
the Republic of Bolivia for an interim livestock project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        On May 26, 1967, IDA made a credit of $2 million to Bolivia for
livestock development in the Department of Beni. The proceeds of that
credit were relent by the Government to Banco Agricola de Bolivia to
support a lending program to ranchers and provide them with technical
services. The project has been launched successfully. Demand for loans
by ranchers, and their readiness to cooperate writh specialized technicians
in the preparation of ranch development plans, resulted in a much faster
commitment of the proceeds of the credit than originally expected. By
July 1969, it became clear that the credit proceeds allocated to long-
term loans would be fully committed at the end of September.
3.        In August 1969, the Bolivian Government applied to IDA for a
credit of $6.4 mi lion to help finance the second stage of its livestock
development program. As it iras clear that the preparation and appraisal
of a new and much larger project would take several months, the question
arose how to preserve during this period the momentum of livestock develop-
ment lending and the efficient technical organization set up under the
1967 credit.  Consequently, the Government requested IDA to consider an
interim project which would continue for one year from October 1, 1969
the lending program to the Beni ranchers on the terms and conditions
adopted in 1967.
4.        After a brief project appraisal in the field, negotiation of the
proposed credit took place in WJashington in the middle of October with
His Excellency Julio Sanjines Goytia, Bolivian Ambassador to the United
States, and Ing. Alberto Valdes Loma, General Manager of Banco Agricola.
5.        The status, as of October 31, 1969, of previous IDA credits
and the only previous Bank loan is as follows:
Credit/
Loan                                                    Amount (US$ Million)
Number    Year         Borrower            Purpose   Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
61        1964 Republic of Bolivia         Power       -  10.0       o.6
62        1964 Republic of Bolivia         Power       -    5.0       -
107       1967  Republic of Bolivia        Livestock   -    2.0      0.7
148       1969  Republic of Bolivia        Power       -    7.4      7.4
635       1969  Compania Yacibol Bogoc    Gas
Transportadores (YABOG)   Pipeline  23.2    -      23.2



- 2 -
Total ncw held by Bank and mDA            23.2  24.4
Total undisbursed                         23.2   8.7      31.9
The loan made on July 22, 1969 for the gas pipeline project is not yet
effective.  The date set in the Loan Agreement for fulfillment of effective-
ness conditions has recently been postponed to February 3, 1970, to give
time for the parties concerned with the project to study the effects
of the recent nationalization of the assets of Bolivian Gulf Cil Company,
and determine whether, and if so, in what form, it would be possible to
proceed with the project.
6.        A mission organized under the UI'ESCO/IBRD cooperative program
visited Bolivia in late August and early September 1969 to help the Govern-
ment prepare an education project for consideration by IDA. However, in
view of Bolivia's current serious fiscal problems, which make it difficult
for the Government to contribute to the cost of building and operating
new schools, this education project is currently in abeyance.
7.        FolloTing a United Nations Development Programme financed
Transport Study, discussions have been held between Bolivia and the Bank
with a view to rehabilitating the country's railways and relieving the
burden they place on the budget.     The Government has informed the Bank
of policies it intends to pursue towTard this end, and the Bank is assisting
the Government in preparing a new request to the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme for technical assistance designed to help implement those
policies.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
8.        Borrower:            Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiary:         Banco Agricola de Bolivia
Amount:              In various currencies equivalent to
US$1.4 million.
Purpose:             To help finance the continuation of a
credit program for livestock producers in
the Beni Department.
Amortization:        In 50 years, including 10-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments of
1/2 of 1% from May 15, 1980 through
November 15, 1989 and of l1è from Nay 15,
1990 through November 15, 2019.



-3 -
Service Charge:       3/4 of 1% per annum.
Relending Terms:      The Borrower will relend the proceeds of
the development credit to the Beneficiary
at 4% for 16 years, including 5 years of
grace. The Beneficiary will, in turn,
make loans to ranchers at 12% for 12 years,
including 4 years of grace.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        An appraisal report entitled TInterim Second Beni Livestock
Development Project" (PA-24a) is attached.
10.       Agriculture in Bolivia serves mainly subsistence needs.   It
employs two-thirds of the working population but contributes no more than
5% to export earnings. Development of beef cattle production in the
lowlands should be one of the most effective ways of promoting expansion
of agricultural exports. The natural characteristics of the Beni Depart-
ment offer excellent opportunities for production growth. With better
herd and pasture management, and the availability of long-term funds for
ranch development, the ranchers in the Beni should be able to increase
substantially the supply of beef for domestic and export markets.
11.       The economic rate of return on the first livestock project of
1967, estimated at 17%, and the financial rate mf return to the ranchers,
estimated at about 20%, are expected to be achieved in the interim
project as well. The 1967 project has been administered by Banco Agri-
cola with competence and energy, and the technical services headed by the
Project Director have demonstrated their efficiency and usefulness.
The ultimate beneficiaries, the Beni ranchers, have advocated the conti-
nuation of the long-term lending program with IDA support.
12.       Like the 1967 project, the proposed interim project consists
of long-term loans for investment in ranch development, related technical
services, and short-term loans for working capital. Its total cost is
estimated at $2.3 million equivalent and about 110 ranchers are expected
to benefit from it. The proceeds of the proposed credit will be applied
to long-term loans only and should be committed in twelve months; funds
allocated under the 1967 credit to technical services are sufficient to
cover their foreign exchange cost through September 30, 1970. Banco
Agricola will continue to finance from its own resources the participating
ranchers' working capital requirements. The cost of technical services
is borne by Banco Agricola.
13.        DA's contributicn to the project cost will be 61%, with Banco
Agricola contributing 21% and the ranchers 18%. Formal assurances have
been received from Banco Agricola to the effect that no claims will be
made on the Government budget in connection with the carrying out of



- 4 -
the project. Goods for on-ranch investment are purchased by ranchers
through normal commercial channels. Most of them are produced locally and,
in consequence, the foreign exchange component of the project may be as
low as $500,000 equivalent or 22%. In these circumstances, approximately
two-thirds of the proposed credit may represent expenditure in Bolivia.
For IDA to cover this expenditure is justifiable because the project is of
exceptional importance to the country's development and one which could
hardly be carried out if IDA financed a substantially smaller proportion
of its cost.
14.       The field appraisal of the proposed third project was carried
out in October/November 1969. The appraisal report on that project will
emphasize the problems of marketing the much larger quantities of beef
that would be produced as a result of the third project, and of the IDB
project referred to in the next paragraph. Assurances in respect of
marketing policies are expected to be i,orked out during the negotiation
of the third credit. We are satisfied that the additional quantities of
beef that would be produced as a result of the proposed interim project
can be marketed under existing marketing arrangements. The Government
has assured us that it will administer meat price policy in such a way
as to maintain incentives to ranchers.
15.       The Bolivian Government has approached the Inter-American
Development Bank for a loan for livestock development in the eastern
Departments of Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca and Tarija. This loan is under
active consideration. In order to ensure uniform standards of project
administration, arrangements have been made by IDA and IDB for the
project director in charge of the IDA projects to be in charge also of the
IDB project.
PART IV - IEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia and
IDA, the draft Project Agreement between IDA and Banco Agricola de Bolivia,
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d)
of Articles of Agreement of IDA and the text of a. Resolution approving the
proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
17.       The draft Agreements contain the provisions normally included
in the case of livestock projects and in general follow the pattern of
the 1967 Agreements relative to the first Beni livestock development
project.  Inter alia, the Agreements provide that no withdrawvals shall
be made from the credit account before the amounts allocated under the
1967 credit to long-term loans for investment in ranch development have
been fully withdraTam, and that the operating policies and procedures for
the carrying out of the project shall be as agreed from time to time
between Bolivia, IDA and Banco Agricola pursuant to the 1967 Credit
Agreement.



- 5 -
PART V - THE ECONOMY
18.       After the distribution to the Executive Directors in February
1969 of the last economic report (iTH-l89a), a number of signs of strain
began to  emerge  in the  econr.g    These included the failure of the
Government to implement a tax reform program formulated in 1968 to deal
with a precarious fiscal situation. This resulted in fiscal deficits
and the postponement of a broad range of essential current expenditures.
There Tere also increasing pressures for wvage adjustments - especially
for mine workers and teachers - to make up for the loss in real income
in recent years.  After the death last April of President Barrientos,
controversies over national mining and petroleum policy and the uncertain
political outlook led to a progressive deterioration in the investment
climate.
19.       Numerous changes in the Administration and the launching of the
1970 electoral campaign were followed last September by the overthrow of
the Government by the Army. Cne of the first steps taken by the new
regime was the nationalization of the assets of the Bolivian Gulf Oil
Company. As a consequence, petroleum exports ceased, construction of
the natural gas pipeline stopped, foreign exchange reserves came under
pressure, and business and financial activity slowed as the banks closed
for number of days, wshile the Government prepared an emergency program
designed to cope with the loss of confidence. The program, which aims
at checking capital flight and inflationary pressures without resorting
to devaluation, includes steps to halt an outflow of foreign exchange,
controls on prices and wages, as well a.s measures designed to increase
government revenue through new taxes and improved tax enforcement, and
to reduce defense expenditures.
20.       Looking beyond the emergency nmeasures. t1Is Government will face
a heavy task in attempting to formulate policies to achieve economic
stability and restore the confidence essential to a resumption of private
investment and to the participation of foreign funds in the country's
development. The attainment of these objectives will require modifi-
cation of the emergency controls program and additional fiscal measures
in order to increase public savings and to correct price and other dis-
tortions which have begun to impede an effective use of the country's
resources.
21.       There are grounds for optimism regarding the country's long
run development potential if the present crisis is resolved writhout undue
delay. The decade of the 1960's has seen a substantial growth in national
product, averaging about 5 percent annually. Wihile this growth ras
partially sustained by relatively favorable world prices of metals, in
particular tin, and by substantial capital inflows, a number of elements
favorable to a continuation of growth are present. Encouraging possibi-
lities for increasing exports Lie in exploiting Bolivia s proved mineral,
gas and petroleum resources. The under-utilized potential and the
continued development of agriculture and animal husbandry in the northern
and eastern loilands hold promise both for import substitution and export



expansion. Capital formation, averaging 16% of gross national product
in the 1960's, has resulted in a substantial addition to the country's
infrastructure, especially in power and road transport, as well as in
productive capacity of such sectors as mining and petroleum. Investment
in commercial and residential construction has also taken place on an
impressive scale. Saving in both the private and public sectors has
increased considerably. A substantial growth in savings and time deposits
in the banking system has occurred in recent years, partly as a result
of vigorous promotion by financial institutions, and partly as a conse-
quence of the country's prolonged period of stability in prices and in
the exchange rate.
22.       The manner in 4iich the Government copes with its present diffi-
culties 'will determine how fast the countryts growth potential is, in
fact, exploited. The ratio of debt service to export earnings is about
10 percent. The country's need for external financing to achieve an
acceptable groith rate is such that the debt service ratio would rapidly
deteriorate in the absence of a marked expansion of exports and of a
continued willingness by external lenders to supply the bulk of the
needed capital on concessional terms.
23.       Last spring, Bolivia reached agreement with the holders of
its external dollar bonds on a new schedule of debt service. Service
payments are now being made in conformity with this schedule and other
provisions of the agreement are being complied with. Cn the other hand,
the nationalization in October of the assets of the Bolivian Gulf Oil
Company introduced new uncertainties as to Bolivia's treatment of its
international obligations. In view of representations made to the Bank
by the Bolivian Government that it intends to pay adequate comrprnsation
for the nationalized properties,'I do not consider that this netter should
deter action by IDA on the proposed credit. I shall, hoiever, follow
the developments in this respect closely. I shall present to the Executive
Directors further proposals for lending to Bolivia only if satisfactory
progress can be observed to'wards a settlement of the compensation issue.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of IDA.
PART VII - RECOMIEITDATION
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments.
Washington, D.C.
Decenber 4, 1969



