CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 171 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Interim Second Beni Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 171 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Interim Second Beni Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1970


﻿I
Brolopmnt (Tubit Agrermnt
AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1970, between REPUB-
LIC OF BOLIVIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOcIATIoN (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS the Association has made a development credit
to the Borrower dated May 26, 1967 (Beni Livestock Devel-
opment Project), Credit 107 BO, for the first stage of a
livestock development program aimed at increasing beef
production in selected areas in the territories of the Bor-
rower (hereinafter called the First Livestock Credit);
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
provide further financial assistance for the continuation of
the said livestock development program; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a credit to
'he Borrower, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).


﻿4
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spectiv e meanings therein set forth, and the following addi-
tional ;erms have the following meanings:
(a) TLe term "Central Bank" means the Banco Central
de Bolivia.
(b) The term "BAB" means the Banco Agricola de
Bolivia.
(c) The term "Project Agreement" means the agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Association
and BAB, as the same may be amended or supple-
mented from time to time by agreement between the
Association and BAB.
(d) The term "ranch development plan" means a pro-
posal for investing in fencing, stock handling and
watering facilities, essential ranch construction, stock
and pasture management equipment and tools, se-
lected pasture establishment and limited numbers of
breeding cattle or other related on-ranch items or
any combination thereof, and for the provision of
working capital and technical services in connection
therewith.
(e) The term "Project Director" means the livestock
expert referred to in Section 2.08 of the Project
Agreement.
(f) The term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BAB, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(g) The term "Project Area" means the Provinces of
Ballividn, Yacuma, Mamore, Itenez., Cercado, Marban
and Moxos of the Departamento del Beni of the
Borrower.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to one million four hundred
thousand dollars ($1,400,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account oi its books in the name of the   arrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of the long-
term loans or the portions thereof to be financed under
this Development Credit Agreement the equivalent of
eighty-five per cent (85%/) or such other percentage as may
be established from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association of such amounts as shall
have been disbursed by BAB under the loans described in
the Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit included in Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement; provided, however, that no with-
drawals shall be made with respect to any such loan or po-
tion thereof unless the Project Director approves the ranch
development plan for which such loan was requested and,
where the amount of any such loan is one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) equivalent or more, unless the relevant
plan shall also have been approved by the Association.
(b) No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Ac-
count before the amounts allocated to Category 1 of the
Allocation of the Proceeds of the First Livestock Credit
have been withdrawn in full.


﻿6
SECTION 2.04. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.0P. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawv from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and
November 15 commencing May 15, 1980 and ending Novem-
ber 15, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on November 15, 1989 to be one-half of one
per cent (  of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1 2%) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost
of the goods -.equired to carry out the Project. The specific
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit shall be determined
by agreement between the Association and BAB acting on
behalf of the Borrower, subject to modification by further
agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used in the territories of
the Borrower exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out by BAB with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound agricultural, administrative,
economic and financial practices and shall cause BAB to be
provided, promptly as needed, with the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement for the purpose of relending the equivalent of
the proceeds of the Credit to BAB. The Borrower shall
exercise its rights in relation to the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association. Except as the Borrower
and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) The operating policies and procedures for the carry-
ing out of the Project shall be as agreed from time to time
between the Association, the Borrower and BAB pursuant
to Section 4.01(c) of the First Livestock Credit.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain at the
Central Bank a Fund (hereinafter called the Project Re-
volving Fund) under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association to be used exclusively to make and receive
payments connected with the Project.
(b) Payments by BAB of principal and interest under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be made to the
Project Revolving Fund, and the Borrower shall, until the
termination of th-, said Subsidiary Loan Agreement, cause
all sums so paid to be made available to BAB for the
purpose of continuing the financing of livestock develop-


﻿I
8
ment in the Project Area, except for sunis required to (i)
service the Credit and (ii) meet the administrative expenses
arising from the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the accounts relating to
the Project Revolving Fund to be aldited annually by an
accountant acceptable to the Association, and shall
promptly thereafter, and not later than four months after
the close of the Biorrower's financial year, transmit to the
Association certified copies of such accounts and a signed
copy of the accountant's report.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations and financial condition of the Project
Revolving Fund; (ii) enable the Association 's representa-
tives to inspect the Project, the goods and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the expend-
iture of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the goods,
and the administration, operations and financial condition
of the Project Revolving Fund.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end:
(a) the Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under this Development Credit Agreement, the


﻿9
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Project Revolving Fund, the financial and economic condi-
tions in the territories of the Borrower, and the interna-
tional balance of payments position of the Borrower;
(b) the Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with or threatens to
interfere with the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations nder this
Development Credit Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(c) the Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.06. This Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall take reasonable meas-
ures to maintain in the Project Area (i) an effective foot-
and-mouth disease control program, and (ii) an effective
procedure for prompt clarification of land titles.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Develop-
0


﻿I
10
ment Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower dleclare the prin-
cipal of the Credit then outstanding to ' aue and payable
immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) BAB shall have failed to perform any covenant or
agreement of BAB under the Project Agreement, and
such non-performance shall continue for a period of sixty
days.
(b) A default shall have occurred in the performance
of any covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower
or BAB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and such
non-performance shall continue for a period of sixty days.
(e) An event specified under Section 5.02 (a) and (b) of
the First Livestock Credit shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreeient
on behalf of BAB have been duly authorized or


﻿11
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and BAB
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental and corporate action.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorizoa
or ratified by, and executed and delivered. on behalf
of, BAB and constitutes a valid and binding obliga-
tion of BAB in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and BAB and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
BAB in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date of April 15, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purpo.ses of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 4.07 of this Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate on the date on which this De-
velopment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
when all principal withdrawn by BAB from the Project
Revolving Fund prior to the Closing Date and interest
thereon shall have been paid by BAB to the Borrower,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿12
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1974 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association as the Closing Date.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio dc Hacienda
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Minhacienda
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 7.03. The Ministro de Hacienda of the Bor-
rower is designated for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the
General Conditions.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed


﻿13
in their respective narnes and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of Amer-.ca, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ COL. EDMUNDO VALENCIA IBANEZ
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEN T ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressea
Category                              in Dollar Equivalent
Long-term loans for investment in
ranch development                           1,400,000


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project is the continuation of the first stage of a
livestock development program of the Borrower, and con-
sists in providing beef cattle producers in the Project Area
with the following:
(1) long-term loans or portions thereof for investment
in ranch development;
(2) related technical services; and
(3) short-term loans for working capital, exclusively
from BAB 's own resources.


