CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 171 BO
Project Agreement
(Interim Second Beni Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
*            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
DATED JANUARY 13, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 171 BO
Project Agreement
(Interim Second Beni Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
DATED JANUARY 13, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1970, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIvIA (hereinafter
called BAB).
WHEREAS, by a Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement) between the Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to further assist in the financing of a livestock
development program of the Borrower, for which program
a credit was earlier made available pursuant to a develop-
ment credit agreement between the Borrower and the As-
sociation dated May 26, 1967 (hereinafter called the First
Livestock Credit) on the terms and conditions set forth
herein and in certain other agreements signed in conjunc-
tion therewith, by making available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million
four hundred thousand dollars ($1,400,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition inter alia that BAB agree to
undertake certain obligations to the Association as herein-
after in this Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS BAB, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
f ollows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms


﻿4
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) shall have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of BAB
SECTION 2.01. (a) BAB shall carry out the Project de-
scribed in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment and conduct its operations with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural, admin-
istrative, economic and financial practices, under the super-
vision of experienced and competent management.
(b) The operating policies and procedures for the carry-
ing out of the Project shall be as agreed from time to time
between the Association, the Borrower and BAB pursuant
to Section 4.01(c) of the First Livestock Credit, and BAB
shall ensure at all times that said operating policies and
procedures are duly carried out,
(c) BAB shall maintain records adequate to identify the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations and financial condition of
BAB; shall enable the Association's representatives to
inspect the Project, the goods and any relevant records
and documents; and shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Project, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
goods, and the administration, operation and financial con-
dition of BAB.
SECTION 2.02. BAB shall enter with the Borrower into
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall exercise its


﻿5
rights thereunder in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Association and BAB.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Association and BAB shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposos of the Credit will
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish to
the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Project.
(b) The Association and BAB shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. BAB
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the per-
formance by BAB of its obligations under this Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BAB shall cause all goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to be used in the territories of the
Borrower exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 2.05. BAB shall (i) continue to carry out an
analysis of the profitability of the several types of its lend-
ing operations and maintain accounting procedures, satis-
factory to the Association, to reflect adequately the results
of such analysis; and (ii) establish separate accounts in
respect of the Project. BAB shall have such separate ac-
counts audited annually by an accountant acceptable to
the Association and shall promptly after the preparation
of the audit and not later than four months after the close
of BAB 's financial year transmit to the Association certified
copies of such audited separate accounts and a signed copy
of the accountant's report.
SECTION 2.06. BAB shall at all times maintain its exist-
ence and right to carry on its operations and shall take


﻿6
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are neces-
sary or useful in the conduct of its business.
SECTION 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BAB shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, assigning, abrogating or
waiving any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 2.08. BAB shall maintain a livestock project
division with an adequate number of qualified staff under
the direction of a qualified and experienced livestock ex-
pert (hereinafter called the Project Director) acceptable to
the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association and BAB.
SECTION 2.09. BAB shall maintain a project loan com-
mittee whose composition, functions and responsibilities
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 2.10. In addition to long-term development
loans to ranchers under the Project, BAB shall provide by
means of short-term loans, the working capital necessary
to enable said ranchers to achieve the benefits expected to
result from the Project.
SECTION 2.11. BAB shall use the proceeds of payments
received by it on account of loans granted under the
Project, which are not required by BAB to service the
loan from the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment or to meet its expenses arising from the Project,
for the purpose of financing further ranch development in
the Project Area.
SECTION 2.12. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BAB shall not prior to the Closing Date incur any
debt, other than debt under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, for the purpose of providing long-term loans for
investment in ranch development in the Project Area.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Project Agreement shall enter into
force and effect on the Effective Date. If the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 10.04
of the General Conditions, the Association shall promptly
notify BAB of this event and, upon the giving of such
notice, this Project Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 3.02. This Project Agreement shall terminate
and all obligations of the Association and BAB hereunder
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
when all principal withdrawn by BAB from the Project
Revolving Fund prior to the Closing Date and interest
thereon shall have been paid by BAB to the Borrower,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTIoN 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power, or remedy accruing to either
party under this Project Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed
to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default;
nor shall the action of such party in respect of any default
or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any
right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any
other or subsequent default.
SECTION 4.02. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿8
cablegram or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For BAB:
Banco Agricola do Bolivia
Casilla 1179
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Banagrico
La Paz, Bolivia
SECTION 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Project Agreement on behalf of BAB
may be taken or executed by the Presidente and the Gereite
General of BAB or such other person or persons as they
shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.04. This Project Agreement may be executed
in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original
and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Project Agreement to be signed in their respec-
tive names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
By /S/ COL. JULIO SANJINES-OYTIA
Authorized Representative


