Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF020426
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Project)
between
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of
the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
Dated September 15, 1998
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF020426
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 1998 between UKRAINE (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; 
(D)
the Project will be carried out by the Recipient’s Ministry of 
Page  2
Environmental Protection and Nuclear Safety  (MEPNS), or any successor thereto, with 
the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make 
available to MEPNS the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided in this 
Agreement; 
(E)
the Recipient has adopted a Program for the Phase-Out of the Production 
and Use of Ozone Depleting Substances in Ukraine (Decree No. 1274 of the Cabinet of 
Ministers of Ukraine of October 17, 1996) (hereinafter the ODS Phase-out Program) 
calling for phase-out in the consumption of ozone depleting substances in the 
territory of the Recipient;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; and 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term ‘Special Drawing Rights’ and the symbol 
‘SDR’ mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
Page  3
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: "Except 
as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.";
(viii)a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF." and
(ix)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant for a 
continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (c) at any time, 
the 
Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the 
GEF 
Trust Fund Grant during the procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the 
Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (d) 
at any 
time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is inconsistent with 
the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which 
would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the GEF 
Trust 
Fund Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account, the 
Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means an enterprise implementing a Sub-project under Part A 
of the Project;
(b)
"ODS" means Ozone Depleting Substance;
(c)
"Ozone Office" means the ozone office established by and operating under 
the supervision of MEPNS for the purpose of carrying out certain technical and 
administrative responsibilities in connection with the implementation of  the ODS 
Phase-out Program referred to in Recital (E) of the Preamble to this Agreement;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"Sub-project" means any of the selected Sub-projects included in the 
Project, as referred to in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any Sub-project 
which shall have been selected by the Recipient and the Bank subsequently hereto, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement, to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Grant and implemented in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
Page  4
to this Agreement; and
(f)
"Sub-project Agreement" means any agreement for the implementation of a 
Sub-project, to be concluded between MEPNS and a Beneficiary in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MEPNS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, financial and administration practices and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
personnel, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure that: 
(a) each Beneficiary shall comply with all relevant environmental requirements of the 
Recipient for any ODS phase-out activity to be carried out under the Project; and (b) 
an environmental review of each Sub-project shall be undertaken by the MEPNS prior to 
conclusion of the Sub-project Agreement related thereto.
Section 3.05. The Bank and the Recipient agree that in no event shall the 
selection by MEPNS of any Sub-project for inclusion in the Project be deemed an 
irrevocable commitment by the Recipient or the Bank to finance the specified ODS 
Page  5
phase-out activities out of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and that, at any time prior to 
the making of any disbursements to any Beneficiary any Sub-project may, by agreement 
between the Recipient and the Bank, be excluded from the Project or be substituted by 
another sub-project, provided the Sub-project which is proposed for substitution is: 
(a) technically and financially feasible; (b) consistent with the objectives of the 
Project; and (c) meets with requirements of GEF.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a)  The Recipient shall cause the Beneficiaries to maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
their operations and financial condition and to register separately their operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the corresponding Sub-Projects.  
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
cause the Beneficiaries to have their records, accounts and 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
Page  6
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year:  (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
sub-paragraph (i) above for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures in respect of Sub-projects for which withdrawals 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall cause the Beneficiaries to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditures submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)  that Sub-project Agreements satisfactory to the Bank shall have been 
furnished to the Bank, prior to execution by the parties thereto, with respect to at 
least two Sub-projects; 
(b)   that reports satisfactory to the Bank have been furnished to the Bank by 
the Recipient, demonstrating that at least two environmental reviews of Sub-projects 
have been completed in conformity with standards acceptable to the Bank; and
(c)
that consultants have been selected by the Recipient for assignment to 
the Ozone Office in connection with the development of a financial management system 
for the Project, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Environmental Protection and Nuclear Safety of the 
Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Page  7
Ministry of Environmental Protection
  and Nuclear Safety
5, Kreschatyk Street
Kyiv, Ukraine 252001
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Kyiv, Ukraine, and Washington, D.C., the United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written.
UKRAINE
By /s/ Yuri Shcherbak
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  acting as an Implementing Agency of the
  Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
By /s/ Paul J. Siegelbaum
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   15,340,000
100% of foreign
under Sub-projects
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2)
Consultants’
    1,440,000
100%
services under 
Sub-projects
Page  8
(3)  Recurrent Costs:
       (a)
Ozone Office
510,000
100% 
Supervision Fees 
      (b)
Qualifying tuition 
 10,000
100%
payments for training 
of refrigeration 
servicing technicians 
under the respective 
Refrigeration Servicing 
Sub-project
TOTAL
   17,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
(c)
the term "Supervision Fees" means the fees payable to the Ozone Office 
pursuant to the carrying out of its responsibilities under the Project and 
representing the reimbursement to the Ozone Office of the amount of incremental 
operating expenses incurred by the Ozone Office in respect of the Project, computed 
according to a methodology acceptable to the Bank, and such fees shall consist of the 
reasonable and necessary fees and expenses payable by the Ozone Office, including 
inter alia: (i) bank fees; (ii) international and domestic telecommunications; (iii) 
travel expenses (including expenses for operation of vehicles) of Ozone Office staff 
and consultants associated with the Project; (iv) legal, auditing, procurement and 
technical advisory services, and translation and interpretation services; (v) 
workshops; and (vi) such other expenses as may be agreed with the Bank; but in no 
event shall such supervision fees be construed to include any expenditure made for the 
acquisition of or investment in land, office space, securities or financial assets, or 
for staff salaries, benefits, or other compensation; and
(d)
"Refrigeration Servicing Sub-project" means the Refrigeration Servicing 
Sub-project described in Part B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Qualifying 
tuition payments" means payments made to any training institution in respect of 
technician trainees selected for training and identified as refrigeration servicing 
technicians under the employment of a Beneficiary refrigeration servicing company 
which is a recipient of equipment under a Sub-project financed out of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
200,000,  may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (3) on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts: (i) 
for goods not exceeding $400,000 equivalent; (ii) for consultants’ services not 
exceeding $100,000 in the case of consulting firms, and $50,000 in the case of 
individuals, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Recipient; (iii) for expenditures made for the Supervision Fees under Category 
(3)(a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 1; and (iv) for other 
Recurrent Costs under Category (3)(b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule 1.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  9
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in its Program to phase 
out ODS consumption in a manner consistent with internationally recognized practices.
The Project consists of the following two parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
ODS Consumption Phase-Out Activities
The implementation by selected Beneficiaries of identified Sub-projects 
involving activities aimed at the phase-out of ODS consumption: (a) in the 
refrigeration manufacturing sector; (b) in the sector of refrigeration servicing; (c) 
in the aerosol sector; and (d) in the solvent sector.
Part B:
Technical Assistance and Training
(1)
Implementation of a training program under a Sub-project to be implemented 
jointly by the central fire protection authorities of the Recipient and consultants as 
contracted by the Ozone Office. The training program would consist of training in the 
following areas: (a) fire protection technologies (non-halon systems) that do not 
consume ODS; (b)  development of a national halon management system; and (c) 
preparation of national fire protection standards.
(2)
The provision to the Ozone Office of equipment, technical and accounting 
consultancy services (including for audits of Project accounts) and support for 
regulatory and policy activities; and implementation of a training program for the 
training of refrigeration technicians at several Beneficiaries, under a Refrigeration 
Servicing Sub-project to be implemented by the Ozone Office.
(3)
The provision of technical assistance to a domestic refrigeration manufacturer 
for the conversion to an isobutane refrigerant technology.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section I of this Schedule, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territories of the Recipient and to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, and costing in the aggregate amount not more than $11,800,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Page  10
Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 but less than $400,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Parts B.1 and C.1 of this Section I, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts to be awarded each year according 
to the procedures referred to in Part C.2 of this Section I, the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Recipient shall 
provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Recipient shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and draft 
contract; and
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B: Quality-and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, 
and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality-and 
cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for environmental permitting, safety audits, legal services, financial 
audits and environmental services under Parts A and B of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
Page  11
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $300,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of a paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
2.
Post Review
(a)
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Responsibilities for Project Implementation
1.
The Recipient shall assign the general responsibility for project implementation 
to MEPNS and shall, for this purpose, make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to MEPNS as and when needed for financing eligible activities under the 
Project.
2.
The Recipient shall ensure the maintenance of the existence of the Ozone Office 
throughout the period of Project implementation and the assignment to the Ozone Office 
of the staff, facilities and other resources required for performance of the following 
functions under the Project:
(a)
preparation of a plan, including a time schedule, for Project 
implementation;
(b)
preparation of the Sub-project Agreements to be concluded between MEPNS 
and the Beneficiaries in accordance with the provisions set forth in Part B of this 
Schedule; 
(c)
coordination of environmental approvals required for Sub-project 
implementation;
(d)
management, with the assistance of a financial expert to be employed by 
MEPNS prior to the start of any Sub-project implementation, of all financial matters 
under the Project, including: (i) maintenance of the records and accounts of the 
Project; (ii) approval of expenditures under the Sub-projects and preparation of 
applications for disbursement of the GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds in connection 
therewith; (iii) supervision of the procurement procedures to be followed by the 
Beneficiaries; (iv)
monitoring expenditures by Beneficiaries on account of the 
Sub-projects; and (v) arranging for audit of the Project accounts in accordance with 
the provisions of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
management, with the assistance of a procurement expert to be employed by 
MEPNS prior to the start of Sub-project implementation, of all contractual matters 
under the Project, including: (i) assistance to Beneficiaries to ensure that their 
procurement of goods or services
to be financed from the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant is carried out in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) assistance to Beneficiaries in bid package preparation, bid 
evaluation and contract award and administration; 
(f)
preparation and furnishing to the Bank of monthly reports on the status 
of project implementation; and
(g)
regulatory functions concerning the licensing and import/export control 
of ODS.
3.
The Recipient shall: 
(a)
ensure the inclusion in the monthly status reports referred to in 
paragraph (1) (f) of this Part A of this Schedule, of adequate information concerning 
the quarterly financial position of Beneficiaries; and
Page  12
(b)
suspend disbursement of the GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds on account of 
any Sub-project, should it be determined by the Bank, on the basis of any information 
so provided, that the Beneficiary under such Sub-project has lost its financial 
viability.
4.
Regarding the training programs to be carried out under Parts B.1 and B.2 of the 
Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of each such program as well 
as the schedule for its implementation;
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank on 
the training programs to be carried out in the following calendar year; and
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each training program and the benefits to be 
derived therefrom.
B.
Sub-project Agreements
1.
Each Sub-project under Part A of the Project shall be implemented under an 
agreement (the Sub-project Agreement) acceptable to the Bank, to be concluded between 
MEPNS and the Beneficiary concerned upon completion by MEPNS of an environmental 
review of the Sub-project.  Among the principal terms and conditions of each 
Sub-project Agreement shall be included, inter alia:
(a)
a description of the activities included in the Sub-project;
(b)
an estimate of the cost of carrying out the Sub-project and 
identification of the portion thereof: (i) to be financed from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant proceeds; and (ii) to be financed from other resources of the Beneficiary;
(c)
a provision whereby the Recipient shall retain the right to suspend 
disbursement of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant on account of the Sub-project 
should it be determined, as indicated in paragraph 3(b) of Part A of this Schedule, 
that the relevant Beneficiary has lost its financial viability;
(d)
the obligations of the Beneficiary: (i) to follow the procurement 
procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement with respect to the procurement 
of goods or services to be financed from the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(ii) to make withdrawals from the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant on account of 
the MEPNS Sub-project through the Ozone Office; (iii) to maintain adequate records and 
accounts for the Sub-project; (iv) to provide to the Ozone Office all information and 
documents required for the preparation by the Ozone Office of the progress reports 
referred to in Part A (2)(f) of this Schedule, including quarterly updates of 
financial statements; and (v) to abide by an agreed plan, to be included in the 
Sub-project Agreement, for the dismantling/destruction of ODS dedicated equipment; and
(e)
a commitment by the Beneficiary, in case of its impending insolvency or 
discontinuation of its activities, to make arrangements with MEPNS to ensure that 
equipment and materials included in the Sub-project and financed wholly or partly from 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall continue to be utilized for purposes 
consistent with the objectives of the Project.  
C.
Refrigeration Servicing Sub-project
The Recipient shall carry out the Refrigeration Services Sub-project referred to 
in Part B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in accordance with a regulatory regime 
ensuring the control and licensing of the import and export of ODS materials, 
acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  13
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $690,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
Page  14
to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this  
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
