                                                                                                                       92194
World Bank Projects in Environment                                                                                     April 19,2004
The problem of environmental protection and rational management of nature is of global significance and its solution pertains to the
priorities that are common to all mankind. In Ukraine, this issue has become particularly acute in the period of reforming the economy:
due to lack of funds and other difficulties of the transitional period, some enterprises often fail to comply with the rules of thrifty attitude to
the natural resources, and redressing of the ecological balance. Therefore, it is no mere chance that the Ukrainian Government and the
World Bank paid particular attention to the environmental protection as one of the most vital areas of cooperation.

Active cooperation in addressing these issues was initiated as early as 1992-1993. Priorities were jointly determined in the area of
environmental protection and management of natural resources and a strategy of ecological projects was outlined in Ukraine. In addition,
the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) provided two grants for Ukraine in 1993 for conducting important activities which have not
received proper support so far.

The Transcarpathian Biodiversity Protection Project was supported that year by a GEF grant (the total cost of the project is $US 0.58
million, the GEF grant is $US 0.50 million). It was implemented in the period of 1993-1997. The project objective was to demonstrate the
modern principles of environmental protection and regenerating ecology in Ukraine, as well as to maintain an initiative of the International
Biosphere Reserve that was developed by Ukraine, Poland and the Slovak Republic. A biodiversity protection program was elaborated
under the Project as well as a biological and geographic inventory was made, studies were conducted in the field of genetics, and analysis
data for the most important natural habitats were processed with the aid of the Geographic Information System and the established
Carpathian Planning Group. Also, a program of coordinated management of resources, a training program on public relations and a
number of other measures were developed under the project.

In 1994-1999, the Danube Delta Biodiversity Project (with the total cost of the project of $US 1.7 million and a GEF grant of $US 1.5
million) was implemented. The Project provided support for protecting and improving the conditions of the Ukrainian part of the ecological
system of Europe’s largest waterway delta, which had a beneficial effect on the general situation regarding preservation of its biodiversity.
In the process of project implementation, the Danube Water-meadows Reserve developed and carried out effective plans for protected
area management around the Danube delta and strengthened the huntsmen service; monitoring and database management were
improved, a pilot project of restoring wetlands was carried out, efficient public information was initiated, professional specialists were
trained and a number of other measures were implemented. The project provided for activity coordination with the GEF measures carried
out in Romania, and GEF measures to manage the ecological activities in the Black Sea basin.

Taking into account Ukraine’s support for international agreements on ozone depleting substances, the Ukrainian Government carries on
serious work to phase out harmful productions. The Project for Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-out in Ukraine (GEF grant of $US
23.2 million) is currently at the stage of implementation. The project envisages support for the measures to replace dangerous
technologies at enterprises in the areas of refrigerating engineering and production of aerosols, solvents and halons. It will help acquire
and install the latest ozone-safe equipment at Ukrainian enterprises. In the long run, this will facilitate the solution of not only ecological
problems, but also the issues of viability of Ukrainian enterprises and introduction of their products in the world markets.

Still another grant of the Global Ecological Facility is aimed at implementing the Project for GEF Biodiversity Conservation in the Azov-
Black Sea Ecological Corridor (the total cost of the project is $US 9.3 million and a GEF grant is $US 6.9 million). Initiated in 2002, the
project is currently at the stage of implementation.

The topicality of the project objectives consists in conserving biological diversity in the territories along the Ukrainian coast of the Black
and Azov Seas. The project is composed of four main parts. Specifically, the first one is aimed at implementing efficient measures to
manage the protected areas in the ecological corridor, and to improve the qualification of workers of two national parks, and the like. The
tasks of the project second part include the development and implementation of an efficient strategy for protecting the ecological corridor.
The third part pertains to public information and providing support for the nature protecting activities under the ecological education
program, and to implementation of the small grants program. The fourth part concerns assessment of the adequate management of
nature protecting activities on lands to which land titles were distributed and is implemented jointly with the Rural Land Title Project.

The GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project is carried out in two stages (the total cost of the project is $US 112 million). The project first
stage was completed in 1998; currently, its second part is being implemented (a GEF grant is $US 0.32 million). The project is aimed at
supporting an efficient long-term strategy for the protection and well-balanced utilization of Ukraine’s biodiversity, and involving
representatives of the state and private sectors of the economy, as well as expert researchers in partnership cooperation on these issues.

Promoting attraction of investments to the reformed areas is one of the directions of the strategic assistance rendered by international
financial donors to Ukraine. The Project for Managing Crimea’s Coastal Zone and Reducing Biogenous Contamination (Black Sea
and Danube Program of GEF Strategic Partnership), which is now under preparation, aims to achieve this goal (a GEF grant is $US 70
million). The strategic partnership of the World Bank and Global Ecological Facility is directed at improving the Black Sea biosphere, their
cooperation with Ukraine steps up the pace of main investments under the mapped-out general investment program. Presently, the World
Bank and the Ukrainian Government are discussing possible measures to be taken under the project, and sources of local financing.

Translated by V. Ivchenko
 
