Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16174
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (BWDB)
SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
(Credit No. 1467-BD)
December 11, 1996
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Operations Division
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS            Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
At Staff Appraisal Report Year (1983) = US$1.0 = Tk 25.0
At Completion Year (1993) = US$1.0 = Tk 40.0
FISCAL YEAR                      July 16-July 15
WEIGHTS AND NIEASURES            1 Kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile
1 acre (ac) = 0.405 hectare (ha)
I metric ton (m ton) = 26.8 mound (md)
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
ADP                    Annual Development Programme
Aman                   Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested in November or December
Aus                    Rice planted during March or April and harvested during June or July
B.                     When preceding a crop, means broadcast (B. Aman)
Boro                   Rice planted in January or February and harvested in May or June.
BWDB                   Bangladesh Water Development Board
DPEC                   Departmental Project Evaluation Committee
DAE                    Department of Agriculture Extension
DC                     Deputy Commissioner
DPS III                Directorate of Planning Schemes III
ERR                    Economic Rate of Return
FFWP                   Food For Works Programme
FAO/CP                 FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FCD                    Flood Control and Drainage
FC                     Flood Control
GOB                    Government of Bangladesh
HYV                    High Yielding Variety
IDA                    International Development Association
LV                     Local Variety
LLP                    Low Lift Pump
MIWDFC                 Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control (renamed in 1994 as
Ministry of Water Resources)
ML&LR                  Ministry of Land and Land Revenues
O&M                    Operation and Maintenance
PC                     Polder Committee
PCR                    Project Completion Report
PMU                    Project Management Unit
PP                     Project Proforma (a Government document required for budgetary
authorization for investment projects)
SRP                    BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2099-BD)
STW                    Shallow Tubewell
SDR                    Special Drawing Right
SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
T.                     When preceding a crop, means transplanted (T. Aman)
UNDP                   United Nations Development Programme
WOP                    Without Project Situation
WP                     With Project Situation
Vice President, South Asia Regional Office          Mr. D. Joseph Wood
Director, Country Department I                :    Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
Chief, Agriculture and Natural Resources Division   Mr. Ridwan Ali
Project Officer                               :    Mr. Md. Abdul Ghani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 11, 1996
OED EVALUATIVE MEMORANDUM
ON PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Bangladesh: Bangladesh Water Development Board Small Schemes Project (Credit 1467-BD)
The Bangladesh Water Development Board Small Schemes project, supported by Credit 1467-
BD for US$41.5 million equivalent, was approved in FY84. It was closed on June 30, 1993, after four
extensions and a delay of four years. US$12.6 million was reallocated from credit savings to rehabilitate
coastal embankments damaged by a cyclone in 1991. Cofinancing for the project was provided by UNDP
for technical assistance and training. The FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program prepared the Project
Completion Report (PCR) for the South Asia Regional Office. The borrower submitted a short report,
which is included as Part II.
The project's principal objective was to increase crop production and farm incomes, by reducing
crop losses and promoting higher yielding varieties through improved flood control, drainage and
irrigation on small schemes. Secondary objectives were to strengthen the Bangladesh Water
Development Board's (BWDB) ability to carry out similar schemes and operation and maintenance
(O&M). To achieve these objectives the project included (i) construction of about 27 subprojects
covering 90,000 ha of cultivated land; (ii) upgrading BWDB's capacity for planning, design and
construction of small schemes; and (iii) piloting O&M initiatives on completed schemes as well as
schemes financed by the project. These initiatives included decentralization of BWDB O&M functions,
cost recovery from beneficiaries, and the transfer of some responsibility for scheme management to local
user groups. The project was expected to be implemented over five years, allowing two years for
construction of civil works at each site.
The implementation period was extended from five to nine years, due to shortfalls in counterpart
finance, difficulties with land acquisition, and delays at all stages of BWDB's design and construction
activity. Plans for subprojects limited to drainage or irrigation were mostly dropped, and the total was
reduced from 27 to 17, mostly flood control schemes. The average construction period was five years
instead of two. Nevertheless, the size of individual schemes was larger than anticipated, and the project
exceeded its area, production and income targets. The PCR recomputes the economic rate of return
(ERR) for the whole construction program (absorbing about 90 percent of disbursements), based on data
available from the same four schemes used to estimate the ERR at appraisal plus a fifth (irrigation)
scheme, at 25 percent. The appraisal target was 30 percent. The lower ERR is due to the delayed accrual
of benefits and lower crop prices. The physical achievements are offset and undermined by the lack of
progress toward all O&M objectives. The PCR notes that BWDB O&M activity on the 17 subprojects is
Thls document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
deficient, that funds allocated to the pilot program to decentralize improved O&M were used by BWDB
to finance rehabilitation rather than maintenance of existing schemes, that the program was eventually
terminated by the Bank, and that the plans to both foster cost recovery and transfer O&M responsibility
to user groups were largely frustrated. The ERR reestimate does not include costs and benefits associated
with credit disbursements of approximately US$13 million reallocated to the repair of coastal
embankments (covered under a separate ICR for the embankment rehabilitation program) and US$7
million used for the rehabilitation of existing schemes under the pilot O&M component.
The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) rates the overall project outcome as marginally
satisfactory: impressive gains in production were delayed by the construction program and are now
threatened by deficiencies in O&M. Sustainability of the increased production is uncertain, until
improved O&M removes what the PCR calls "severe risks" to the completed infrastructure. OED rates
institutional development as negligible, reflecting the multiple O&M activities promoted at appraisal and
then largely ignored. Bank performance was generally satisfactory. The PCR is also satisfactory, offering
a clear and comprehensive account of project implementation. However, it lacks a satisfactory discussion
of monitoring and evaluation.
There are several lessons which are useful for operations elsewhere: (i) problems of land
acquisition should be anticipated, and fair and orderly compensation measures planned in advance; (ii)
the construction program should be tailored to a realistic projection of resources available to
government; and (iii) government must fulfill its commitments to carry out regular O&M, supported by
the beneficiaries, otherwise the civil works will fail and the benefits will be unsustained.
No audit is planned.
Attachment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (BWDB) SMALL
SCHEMES PROJECT (CR. 1467-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............                        .............. iii
PARTI ..............                                                              1
1. Project Identity ...........................  1
2. Background ...........................  1
3. Project Objectives and Description  ...........................    2
4. Project Design and Organization ............................ 3
5. Project Implementation ...................-.                  -     .-         4
6. Project Results ..................                                            10
7. Project Sustainability ..................                                     11
8. Bank Performance ..................                                           12
9. Borrower Performance ..................                                       13
10. Project Relationship           ..                     ................ 13
11. Consulting Services                           ..                             13
12. Project Documentation and Data          ................... 14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othermise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART II ............................................... .. 15
PART HI           ...................................... 16
1. Related IDA Credits  ...........           .................... 16
2. Project Timetable ............................... 17
3. Credit Disbursements (SDR miiion) ............................. 17
4. Project Implementation ................................ 18
5. Project Costs and Financing  ............................... 19
A. Project Costs ..........           ..................... 19
B. Project Financing (IJS$ million) ............................ 19
6. Project Results    ...............              ................ 20
A. Direct Benefits ................................ 20
B. Economic Impact ................................ 20
C. Financial Impact ................................ 20
D. Studies ....................................... 20
7. Status of Covenants ............................... 21
8. Use of Bank Resources ................................ 22
A. Staff Inputs ............................... 22
B. Missions ....................................... 23
C. Costs ....................................... 23
ANNEXES:
1.   Sub-Project, Technical Assistance and Project Costs
2.   Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
Map #: IBRD 27965



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (BWDB)
SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
(Credit No. 1467-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the BWDB Small Schemes
Project in Bangladesh for which IDA Credit 1467-BD in the amount of SDR 40.2 million
(equivalent to US$41.5 million) was approved on May 1, 1984, and co-financing from UNDP
grant facility of US$2.0 million was signed on March 20, 1985. However, due to the reduced
project scope, the increase in the dollar value of the SDR and the resulting Credit savings, a
total amount of SDR 9.22 million was available for reallocation for the rehabilitation of cyclone-
damaged coastal embankments'. After four extensions for a total period of 3 1/2years, the Credit
was closed on June 30, 1993. The last disbursement was made on November 2, 1993 and SDR
40.15 million (including SDR 9.22 million for the rehabilitation of the cyclone damaged coastal
embankments), almost the entire Credit amount, was disbursed. The UNDP grant facility was
used to fund the technical assistance and training components during the original implementation
period between February 1985 and June 1990 and also during the extended implementation
period from July 1990 to June 1991. Total grant funds were, therefore, increased to US$2.47
million. Further, a sum of US$88,555 from the IDA Fifth Technical Assistance Project (Cr.
1440-BD) was allocated to finance additional technical assistance during July 1991-February
1992.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR was prepared
by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme mission2 which visited Bangladesh in
March/April 1994. These sections were revised by staff of the Resident Mission and the
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division of the Country Department 1, South Asia
Region. The report is based on a review of relevant project documents, field visits to selected
subproject areas and discussions with the Borrower's project staff and associated IDA staff. The
Borrower submitted Part II in June 1994. The findings of the original mission have been
updated to reflect progress in completion of key components of two subprojects after the
mission's departure.
1. The implementation of the coastal embankment rehabilitation program financed under this Credit, three other
credits, and grants from the European Union and Japan will be reviewed in a separate report.
2. Messrs. T. Lohavisavdpanich (Economist/Mission Leader), E.J.P. De Nooy (Flood Control and Drainage
Engineer, Consultant) and Quazi Rezual Islam (Agronomist, National Consultant, for the duration of field visit).






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (BWDB)
SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
(Credit No. 1467-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
(i)         The principal objective of the project was to increase crop production and farm
incomes by adding areas under High Yielding Variety (HYV) through improved drainage or by
providing irrigation, and by reducing crop losses by providing flood protection. The secondary
objective was to support the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of subprojects and transfer of
O&M responsibilities to beneficiaries after construction. To achieve these objectives, the project
was designed to: (i) construct about 27 subprojects (22 flood control and drainage (FCD) and
5 irrigation), covering a total of 91,125 ha of net cultivated land; (ii) initiate O&M of
subprojects funded under the project and the pilot decentralized O&M programme of all
BWDB's completed schemes located in four BWDB's divisions; and (iii) strengthen BWDB's
capacity in planning and implementation of small schemes.
Project Implementation
(ii)        Overall, project implementation was very slow and took about nine years (until
June 1993) to complete the reduced targets of 17 subprojects. With a few exceptions, the
average time taken to complete civil works in each subproject was 5 years as against 2 years
estimated at appraisal. Also, the land acquisition for many subprojects continued even after the
completion of construction. Major problems causing slow implementation were: (a) initial
delays in the Credit effectiveness by 11 months; (b) overambitious project targets;
(c) Government of Bangladesh's (GOB's) lengthy and cumbersome approval and processing
procedures for land acquisition; (d) delays in approval of Project Proforma (PP)'; (e) inadequate
Annual Development Program (ADP) allocations up to 1990 and the time-consuming fund
release procedures; (f) delays in preparation and approval of designs; (g) delays in authorization
of annual work plans; (h) delays in the preparation and approval of bids and award of contracts;
(i) untimely delivery of construction equipment and material by BWDB to contractors; (j) the
introduction of contracts on turnkey basis in 1989, under which contractors had to supply their
own equipment and other resources, without adequate adjustments in prequalification procedures
1. A GOB document is required for obtaining budgetary authorization for investment projects.



- iv -
to exclude contractors without sufficient equipment and resources; (k) poor performance of
contractors due to lack of adequate resources and experience; and (1) weak project coordination
and management.
(iii)       Because of serious implementation delays and low achievements in civil works,
which gave rise to substantial savings in the Credit, the project was restructured and reduced in
scope thrice. The implementation period was extended four times for a total implementation
period of 9 years. The project as restructured included: (i) reduction in number of subprojects
from the original of 27 to 19 subprojects in 1987; (ii) deletion of two subprojects (Perizpur-
Hizalgachi and Madhapur) in 1989 due to shortage of local funds and low economic viability
respectively; and (iii) reduction in scope of civil works in 1991 in three subprojects (Halda
Extension, Gangajhuri, Tarail Pachuria) due to the limited implementation period during the
second and third Credit extensions. As a result of the reduced project scope, the increase in the
dollar value of the SDR and the consequent Credit savings, a total of SDR 9.22 million was
available for reallocation in 1992 for the rehabilitation of cyclone damaged coastal
embankments.2  Further, because funds provided for the implementation of the pilot
decentralized O&M component were utilized for only the rehabilitation of 26 completed schemes
rather than regular maintenance works, the programme was suspended in 1991.
(iv)        The UNDP grant facility was provided to fund the technical assistance and
training during the original period between February 1985 and June 1990. However, it was
extended to June 1991 to cover the increased technical assistance required for the increased
feasibility studies and engineering designs of subprojects and monitoring of construction during
the extended project implementation period. Total grant funds were increased from the original
amount of US$2.0 million to US$2.47 million. In addition, a sum of US$88,555 was allocated
from the IDA Fifth Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1440-BD) to finance additional technical
assistance needs during July 1991-February 1992.
Proiect Results
(v)         Overall, despite implementation delays, the project has largely achieved its
principal objective of increasing crop production. In terms of physical achievements, although
only 17 subprojects (63 % of the appraisal target of 27) were completed, the total benefitted areas
have increased by 18% from 91,125 ha estimated at appraisal to 107,789 ha at project
completion. However, it has been only partially successful in introducing the improved O&M
of subprojects with beneficiaries' participation. It could not also initiate nationwide improved
O&M of all BWDB's completed schemes through the implementation of the pilot decentralized
O&M programme.
(vi)        At Credit closure in June 1993, only 15 FCD subprojects were completed,
including 7 FCD, 6 FC and 2 drainage subprojects. The main works for the remaining 2
2. This component, financed also from 3 other IDA credits and European Community and
Japanese grants, will be covered in a separate ICR.



irrigation subprojects were completed only in October 1993. At the Closing Date the pumping
stations at the Chenchuri irrigation subproject had not been commissioned due to electrical and
mechanical problems while the operation of the two pumping stations at the Halda irrigation
subproject was still being tested. However, based upon work completed after Credit closure,
the Chenchuri and Halda pumping stations are now in operating condition. Remaining work in
excavating secondary and tertiary canals at Halda is expected to be completed in FY96.
(vii)       Despite the fact that several subprojects were declared complete by BWDB, the
performance of these completed subprojects has been poor, mainly due to lack of proper O&M.
This was evident by the results of the 1992 operational status survey of the completed
subprojects which indicated that none of the civil works of subprojects were fully completed to
the designed level of services required. Subsequently, additional rectification works were carried
out in FY93 and FY94 to ensure effective operation before handing-over to the O&M Divisions.
(viii)      The implementation of the two O&M components (O&M of subprojects and the
pilot decentralized O&M programme) has also been unsatisfactory, mainly due to lack of
initiative and commitment of BWDB. In fact, only rehabilitation works were carried out. In
addition, although Polder Committees (PCs) were formed in 1985 before the commencement of
the construction of subprojects, they have been inactive and the entire concept of beneficiaries'
participation was neglected by BWDB. Since 1992, efforts were concentrated on organizing
motivational meetings to create awareness for O&M among beneficiaries and forming smaller
and manageable sluice committees in all subproject areas. These efforts have not met with much
success as most of these committees have not been functional, mainly due to the limited
motivational meetings and lack of clear institutional arrangements for beneficiaries' O&M
responsibilities. Consequently, the transfer of O&M responsibilities to sluice committees and
beneficiaries has not been achieved. Work is continuing under another project (see para xii) to
improve O&M and introduce beneficiary participation on a national basis.
(ix)        Agricultural Impact. The incremental crop production at full development is
estimated at 184,400 tons annually, 68% higher than the appraisal estimates of 109,500 tons.
The larger benefited areas and higher incremental yields of paddy are the main contributing
factors. The increases in yields have resulted from the project works which encouraged farmers
to adopt HYV seeds and the imnproved farming by transplanting paddy. Based on the results of
the bench mark surveys, crop data provided by the Department of Agriculture Extension (DAE)
and additional interviews with farmers by the PCR mission, the cropping intensities have
increased by 20%-40% and yields of paddy by 10%-50% (10%-15% in FCD and 30%-50% in
irrigation subprojects).
(x)         Economnic Rate of Return. The economic rates of return (ERRs) were calculated
for 5 of the 17 projects and extrapolated for the total project. The ERRs in FY94 constant
prices, were re-estimated at about 18%-30% for 4 subprojects (Kangsha FCD, Bighai FC,
Kalaroa drainage and Chenchuri Beel irrigation) and 25.2% for the whole project compared with
the appraisal estimate of 21%-40% and 30% respectively. The lower ERRs are mainly due to
the substantially longer implementation period resulting in delayed accrual of benefits and lower
prices of outputs than anticipated at project appraisal. Due to substantially higher investment
and O&M costs than anticipated at appraisal and smaller service area, the re-estimated ERR of
the Halda Extension subproject is 12%.



- vi -
(xi)        Income Effects. The project works have helped to raise the net farm incomes
of farmers in the project areas. Farm budget analyses show that at full development net farm
incomes for 3 acre farms would increase by 35% for FCD subprojects and 170% for irrigation
subprojects over the without project situation. The re-estimated incremental annual net farm
incomes from 3 acre farms, expressed in FY94 constant prices, would be Tk 8,000-Tk 36,000,
reflecting real increases of 37%-170% over the appraisal estimates (adjusted to FY94 prices) of
Tk 5,850-Tk 13,140. The project has directly benefitted about 92,300 farm families, 15% over
the appraisal estimates.
Project Sustainability
(xii)        The sustainability of the project activities would depend on the priority given to
the implementation of the improved O&M of subprojects by GOB/BWDB and the effectiveness
and the level of beneficiaries' participation in undertaking the preventive maintenance. The
unsatisfactory situation due to lack of O&M and beneficiaries' participation during project
implementation indicates that the sustainability of the completed infrastructure is at risk.
However, the situation could improve as O&M of completed BWDB subprojects, including the
17 subprojects completed under this project, and introduction of beneficiaries' participation in
preventive maintenance is being addressed under the on-going Systems Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 2099-BD). IDA has indicated that further financial assistance to the irrigation subsector
is dependant upon adequate progress by GOB/BWDB in fulfilling this commitment.
Findings and Lessons Learned
(xiii)      The project suffered from a number of shortcomings from the design stage
through implementation. The most important were technical shortcomings, funding constraints
and institutional and organizational weaknesses.  These are related mainly to: (a) the
overambitious project scope and the Government's cumbersome land acquisition procedures and
limited financial resources; (b) economic viability of some subprojects agreed after appraisal may
not have been reviewed as thoroughly as the subprojects checked at appraisal; (c) unanticipated
hydromorphological changes which caused erosion to the completed infrastructure for one
subproject and resulted in high O&M costs for another; and (d) lack of clear institutional
arrangements for the transfer of O&M responsibilities to beneficiaries, which was expected to
be implemented by PCs to be organized during project implementation. The chief institutional
weakness was a lack of initiative and commitment of BWDB concerning O&M works which is
now threatening the sustainability of subprojects.  Another organizational weakness was
ineffective project coordination and project management.
(xiv)       The implementation experience suggests a number of lessons. The most important
ones are:
(a) to ensure timely and successful project implementation, it is essential to tailor the
construction programme to the practical resources of the Government with prudent
allowance for the time required for the completion of pre-construction activities;



- vii -
(b) the economic viability of subprojects agreed after appraisal should be checked with
the same thoroughness as subprojects reviewed at appraisal;
(c) the successful implementation of improved O&M of subprojects and the transfer of
the preventive maintenance to beneficiaries requires a strong commitment from the
Borrower/BWDB, the organization of beneficiaries in smaller and manageable
groups and a clear institutional arrangements for beneficiaries' O&M
responsibilities;
(d) timely  completion of pre-construction activities requires effective project
management with strong support from the inter-agency coordination committee to
resolve implementation issues among different agencies; and
(e) it is essential for GOB/BWDB to fulfil its commitments for carrying out regular
O&M with increasing responsibilities borne by beneficiaries, without which the
investments in subprojects would be lost and benefits not sustained.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (BWDB)
SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
(Credit 1467-BD)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Project Identity
Project Name           BWDB Small Schemes Project
Credit No.             1467-BD
RVP Unit               South Asia
Country                Bangladesh
Sector           :     Agriculture
Sub-sector             Flood Control, Irrigation, and Drainage
2.         Background
2.1        The Government's development strategy, as enunciated in the Second Five-Year
Plan (1980-85) document, gave highest priority to the objectives of achieving foodgrain self-
sufficiency. In the water sub-sector, the strategy for assisting the Government in reaching this
objective was to emphasize short gestation, low-cost and high return subprojects, in line with
the 1972 World Bank report "Bangladesh Land and Water Sector Study" and reconfirmed in the
1979 joint document of the Government and the World Bank-Review of BWDB. Minor
irrigation schemes in areas of little or no flooding, and drainage and flood control schemes in
areas of moderate flooding were to be emphasized.
2.2       In support of this strategy, since increased cultivated area resulting from flood
control and drainage works, expanded minor irrigation facilities and the diffusion of high
yielding variety (HYV) seeds were considered as major factors contributing to the increased food
production, the Bank approved a series of flood control, drainage and irrigation projects. The
BWDB Small Schemes Project (Cr. 1467-BD), the fifth in a series of such projects, was



- 2 -
approved on May 1, 1984. The last Credit in the series (Cr. 2099-BD) was approved in 1990
for the BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP).
3.         Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The principal objective of the project was to increase crop production and farm
incomes by adding areas under HYV through improved drainage or by providing irrigation, and
by reducing crop losses from flooding by providing flood protection. The secondary objectives
were to support the transfer of the operation and maintenance (O&M) of completed subprojects
to local bodies, foster recovery of irrigation O&M costs from beneficiaries and strengthen
BWDB's capacity in executing small schemes. To achieve these objectives, the project was
designed to: (i) construct about 27 subprojects in ten districts, covering a total of 91,125 ha of
net cultivated land. These included 8 flood control and drainage (FCD), covering about 25,920
ha, 8 drainage, covering about 31,590 ha, 6 flood control (FC), covering about 23,895 ha, and
5 irrigation, covering about 9,720 ha; (ii) strengthen BWDB's capacity for planning, design,
construction and O&M of the subprojects funded under the project; and (iii) initiate an O&M
programme for all BWDB's completed schemes located in four BWDB divisions of Comilla,
Satkhira, Rajshahi and Moulvi Bazar, through a pilot decentralized O&M programme. Under
the institutional strengthening component, funds were to be provided for the procurement of
construction and O&M  equipment and vehicles, and about 1,118 staff-months of technical
assistance (60 staff-months of foreign consultants and 1,058 staff-months of local consultants)
for the preparation of feasibility studies, design and construction supervision of subprojects and
the evaluation of project impact, and training of BWDB's personnel.
3.2        Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, were estimated at
US$58.0 million (Tk 1,449.8 million). An IDA Credit of US$41.5 million (SDR 40.2 million)
was to finance all the foreign exchange costs (24%) and about 62.5 % of local costs. UNDP was
to provide a grant facility amounting to US$2.0 million to fund the technical assistance and
training. The balance of US$14.5 million was to be met by Government's Annual Development
Programme (ADP) budget allocations (US$ 11.3 million) and farmers' contribution (US$3.2
million).
3.3        BWDB of the Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control
(MIWDFC)' was the principal implementing agency. Within BWDB, the Directorate of
Planning Schemes III (DPS III), later the Manager of the Project Management Unit (PMU)2,
was responsible for the coordination of project planning and implementation, and procurement
of consultants and equipment. Coordination of project activities at national level as well as
resolving policy issues that might arise during implementation were entrusted to the
1. MIWDFC was renamed in 1994 as Ministry of Water Resources.
2. DPS III was disbanded in January 1993 and since February 1993 the coordination of project planning and
implementation activities have been handled by PMU.



- 3 -
Departmental Project Evaluation Committee (DPEC) of MIWDFC. At the field level, polder
committees (PCs) were to be established in each subproject to encourage participation of
beneficiaries initially in project planning and implementation, and subsequently in assuming
responsibilities for O&M of subprojects after construction.
4.         Project Design and Organization
4.1        In support of the above development strategy (para 2.1), the Government in late
1982 signed a contract with a consulting firm to prepare feasibility studies of four typical
subprojects (Kangsha River FCD, Kalaroa drainage, Bighai FC and Chenchuri Beel irrigation)
financed under the IDA Fourth Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1124-BD). Subsequently, an
IDA mission visited Bangladesh in June 1983 to appraise the project based on the completed four
feasibility studies.
4.2        The project was conceptualized as a continuation of the low-cost, small scale, and
quick gestation flood control and drainage and irrigation development efforts undertaken by
Government with financial assistance from IDA and other donors. However, given several
constraints which existed at the time of appraisal, particularly GOB's cumbersome procedures
for land acquisition and funding constraints, the scope of the proposed project was too large for
completion within a reasonable implementation period. The delays resulting from these
constraints eventually led to the reduction of the scope of the project from the original target of
27 to 17 subprojects and the re-scheduling of the implementation period from 51/2 years to 9
years (para 5. 1).
4.3        The design of the embankments, drainage structures and the drainage network was
generally appropriate to achieve flood control and improved drainage. However, for two
subprojects (Bighai and Kalaroa) questions have been raised as to whether the
hydromorphological changes in meandering river channels and silting river arms were adequately
considered in the engineering design of subprojects and in decisions as to the locations of major
structures. There has been erosion of some completed infrastructure in one subproject and
another subproject requires frequent desiltation to enable drainage regulators to function
properly. At the Bighai subproject, the shifting river channels have reduced the foreland in front
of regulator no. 7 at a rate of 12-1Sm annually and concern has been expressed as to whether
regulators would eventually disappear in the river channels. At the Kalaroa subproject, adequate
drainage is assured only with frequent desilting of the Betna river channel. However, the
consultants contend that these factors were considered and that the project designs were the best
alternatives based on the information available and the difficulties in predicting erosion.
4.4        The design of one of the two irrigation subprojects was also appropriate. However,
the economic viability of the Halda Extension subproject as originally designed is questionable.
The scope of work to be executed by BWDB was subsequently reduced to what could not be
done by the beneficiaries themselves. The secondary and tertiary canals of the Halda subproject
were thus left out and the infrastructure was completed only for the main canal pumping and



- 4 -
conveyance systems. This was done to (a) reduce public sector expenditure on the irrigation
system and (b) induce beneficiary participation and thus improve sustainability. GOB agreed
to the design change and assured completion of the project through beneficiary participation.
We are told that remaining work under this subproject will be completed by June 1996.
4.5        At appraisal, the role of DPEC, DPS III, BWDB's field divisions and PCs was
generally well defined. However, the overall project coordination and management during
project implementation period was below expectations, and the important institutional
development functions vital for the successful project implementation have not been fully carried
out. The slow implementation was caused partly by the irregular meetings of DPEC and its
insufficient attention to major implementation issues, particularly the delays in land acquisition,
untimely approval of Project Proforma (PP) and inadequate ADP allocations. At BWDB's
headquarters, late release of ADP, delays in authorization of annual work plan and delivery of
equipment to field divisions, and inadequate coordination of project implementation activities by
DPS III adversely affected progress of physical works. At the field level, delays in preparation
and approval of tender documents and the subsequent evaluation of bids and award of contracts
caused further delays in implementation. Sub-standard works in some subprojects could have
been avoided by better supervision of construction.
5.         Project Implementation
5.1        Critical Variances in Project Implementation. The IDA Credit became effective
in April 1985, 1 1-months behind schedule, due to delays in the completion of the engineering
designs of subprojects and land acquisition for the construction programme in the first year.
Further, because of serious implementation delays and low achievements in civil works, the
project was restructured and reduced in scope thrice. The implementation period was extended
four times for a total period of 31/2 years from the original Closing date of December 31, 1989
to June 19933. The changes in the project due to restructuring included: (i) reduction in 1987
in number of subprojects from the original 27 to 19 subprojects, due to the increased average
size of subprojects from about 3,400 ha estimated at appraisal to about 8,000 ha; (ii) deletion
of two subprojects (Perizpur-Hizalgachi and Madhapur) in 1989 due to shortage of local funds
and low economic viability respectively; and (iii) reduction in scope of civil works in 1991 in
three subprojects (Halda Extension, Gangajhuri, Tarial Pachuria) due to the limited
implementation period remaining during the second and third Credit extensions and, in the case
of Halda, the over-expensive original design. As a result of the reduced scope of the project,
the increase in the dollar value of the SDR and the consequent Credit savings, a total of SDR
9.22 million was available in 1992 and was used for the urgently needed rehabilitation of coastal
3. The last 6-month extension to June 30, 1993 was limited to the coastal embankment rehabilitation work following
the April 1991 cyclone and one equipment contract. For all other components the Closing Date was December
31, 1992.



embankments damaged by the 1991 cyclone.4 Further, the implementation of the pilot
decentralized O&M was suspended in 1991, as BWDB could not come up with a suitable plan
for regular maintenance and was planning to use the funds for this component for rehabilitation
of completed schemes.
5.2        Overall. As already noted (para 5.1), project implementation was very slow and
it took about nine years to complete the reduced target of 17 subprojects.  With a few
exceptions, the average time taken to complete civil works in each case was 5 years as against
2 years estimated at appraisal. Also, the land acquisition for many subprojects continued even
after the completion of construction. Major problems causing slow implementation were:
(i) initial delays in the Credit effectiveness by 11 months; (ii) GOB's lengthy and cumbersome
land acquisition procedures; (iii) delays in approval of PP; (iv) inadequate ADP allocations up
to 1990 and the time consuming fund release procedures; (v) delays in preparation and approval
of designs; (vi) delays in authorization of annual work plans; (vii) delays in the preparation and
approval of bids and award of contracts; (viii) poor performance of contractors due to lack of
adequate resources and experience and; (ix) weak project coordination and management.
5.3        The implementation of the two O&M components ( O&M of subprojects and the
pilot decentralized O&M programme) has also been unsatisfactory, due mainly to lack of
initiative and commitment of BWDB. In fact, only rectification works, rather than regular
O&M, were carried out and the pilot O&M component was suspended. In addition, because of
inadequate motivational meetings and lack of clear institutional arrangements for beneficiaries'
O&M responsibilities, neither PCs nor sluice committees have been functional. Consequently,
the transfer of O&M responsibilities to sluice committees and beneficiaries has been achieved
only in a few cases.
5.4        Land acquisition. Total land requirements were substantially reduced due to the
reduced project scope and the non-implementation of several drainage channels. At project
closure in June 1993, a total of 1,120 ha were actually acquired for the 17 subprojects, or 68%
of the total land requirements of 1,639 ha (Annex 1, Table 1). The remaining 519 ha have been
made available to BWDB through local arrangements initiated in 1989, under which landowners,
who were also the project beneficiaries, agreed and surrendered land to BWDB with assurance
that land compensation will be made after completion of official formalities at the Deputy
Commissioner (DC) offices. Difficulties in land acquisition was the most serious problem which
adversely affected the construction programme. Delays were caused mainly by the lack of a
land acquisition plan, lengthy and cumbersome land acquisition procedures, inadequate approval
authority of DC, shortage of land acquisition staff, inadequate and untimely deposit of funds in
DC's offices, public opposition, inadequate levels of land compensation (based on recorded
values of land transactions which are frequently understated to avoid taxes) and late payment.
4. The implementation of the coastal embankment rehabilitation program financed under the
credit, three other credits and grants from the European Union and Japan will be reviewed
in a separate report.



- 6 -
Although these constraints were beyond the control of BWDB, the problem could have been
reduced through the preparation of a land acquisition annual plan, DPEC's regular meetings to
ensure close coordination between DPS III and the Ministry of Land and Land Revenues
(ML&LR) and regular follow-up by staff of BWDB field divisions at DC offices.
5.5        Construction. The project actually took 9 years to complete the civil works of 17
subprojects, including 7 FCD, 6 FC, 2 drainage and 2 irrigation subprojects against the SAR
targets of 27 subprojects.  However, due to design changes, the area served by the 17
subprojects (134,665 ha) is 50% in excess of the originally planned 27 subprojects (91,125 ha).
The actual construction period of 9 years against 5 years at appraisal cannot be deemed
satisfactory. Delays in the construction were caused by the problems noted in para 5.2 and also
the late delivery by BWDB of the construction materials and equipment to contractors,
cancellation of tenders and invitations of fresh tenders and an introduction in 1989 of contracting
on a turnkey basis, under which contractors were supposed to supply their own materials,
equipment and other resources. Many of the contractors hired had difficulties with these new
procedures, which may indicate inadequate prequalirication.
5.6       Initially, 19 out of 27 subprojects were approved by BWDB for implementation but
the number of subprojects was subsequently reduced to 17 as the Madhapur and Perizpur-
Hizalgachi subprojects were deleted in 1989. At the original Credit Closing Date in December
1989, only 5 subprojects were declared complete by BWDB (Annex 1, Table 1). Four and five
additional subprojects were completed at the end of the first and second Credit extensions to
December 1990 and 1991 respectively. In order to try to complete the civil works of the
remaining 3 subprojects (Chenchuri, Halda Extension, Kalidashkhali) in FY92, the scope of
works in the Halda extension was further reduced by curtailing the secondary and tertiary
distribution systems. However, only the Kalidashkhali subproject was completed during FY92.
During the PCR mission's field visit in March 1994, the pumping stations at the Chenchuri
subproject had not yet been commissioned after 51/2 years, due to constraints including electrical
and mechanical problems, difficulties in matching electric motors with axial flow pumps and the
defective transformers. At the Halda Extension subproject, the operation of the two pumping
stations was still being tested. The repairs of the Chenchuri pumps have been completed and
the Chenchuri and Halda pumps are now in operating condition. Remaining work on the
secondary and tertiary canals for Halda is expected to be completed by June 1996.
5.7       Despite the fact that several subprojects were declared complete by BWDB, the
performance of these completed subprojects has been poor due mainly to lack of proper O&M
as observed by IDA's supervision missions in late 1991. Following the IDA's recommendations,
BWDB conducted a survey on the operational status of the completed subprojects to identify the
shortcomings and remedy defects to ensure effective operations. The survey was completed in
June 1992 and the results indicated that none of the civil works of subprojects were considered
fully complete for the designed level of services required.  Before handing these subprojects
over to the O&M Divisions, additional rectification works were needed to ensure effective
operation.  Additional repair works were required largely due to: (a) lack of regular
maintenance; (b) poor condition of embankments resulting from poor construction methods (cuts,



-7-
- 7 -
breaches, slips in slopes, erosion by wave-action, damages caused by meandering channels,
inadequate cross-section); (c) damages to structures caused by inappropriate operating
procedures; and (d) poor drainage (Annex 1, Table 3). Subsequently, the PP was revised to
include ADP allocations for the rectification works in 17 subprojects in FY93 but only 9
subprojects were completed. An additional ADP allocation of Tk 132.5 million was earmarked
for FY94 for completion of the rectification works in the remaining 8 subprojects and the
installation of pumps in the Halda Extension subprojects. In addition, about 6,000 tons of wheat
(Tk 36 million) were provided under FFWP for additional earthworks in 11 subprojects. At the
time of the completion report visit, the earthworks were underway, but the rectification works
had not yet started. These works have now been completed.
5.8        Operation and Maintenance of Subprojects. At appraisal, O&M of subprojects
was included in the project scope. The main thrust was to enable BWDB to carry out the
periodic maintenance, and to directly involve beneficiaries in the preventive maintenance. The
project was to provide technical assistance for the preparation of O&M manuals and funds for
O&M works during and after construction of subprojects. Initially, due to lack of enough
attention by BWDB, no ADP allocations were provided in the PP until 1991. Subsequently, due
to lack of initiative and commitment of BWDB's field divisions, the O&M manuals prepared by
consultants during FY85-FY92 for 13 subprojects (para 5.14) were not used by BWDB as the
operational guidelines and little O&M work has been carried out with beneficiaries'
participation. At Credit closure, a limited amount of Tk 15.6 million, or 22% of the appraisal
estimate of Tk 71.0 million, had been spent for O&M in 10 subprojects in FY92 and 7
subprojects in FY93. A lack of regular O&M was threatening the sustainability of the completed
subprojects. However, GOB/BWDB has now prepared an O&M plan and budget for all
completed subprojects. About Tk 56.7 million will be required annually, including about Tk
30.7 million (Tk 296/ha/year) for 15 FCD, Tk 4.8 million (Tk 4,630/ha/year) for the Chenchuri
Beel and Tk 21.2 million (Tk 36,840/ha/year) for the Halda Extension subproject.
5.9        Beneficiaries' Participation. In order to ensure the sustainability of the completed
subprojects through beneficiaries' commitment and support, Government's main thrust was to
make O&M of small schemes the responsibilities of beneficiaries which was to be administered
through the responsible PCs. However, the results during project implementation were
unsatisfactory.  Although PCs were formed in 1985 before the commencement of the
construction of subprojects, they have been inactive and the entire concept of beneficiaries'
participation was totally neglected by BWDB.  Since 1992 efforts were concentrated on
organizing motivational meetings to create awareness for O&M among beneficiaries and forming
smaller and manageable sluice committees in all subproject areas. However, these efforts also
have not met with much success. Most of these committees have not been functional due mainly
to the limited motivational meetings and lack of clear institutional arrangements for beneficiaries'
O&M responsibilities. At project closure, only a few of the sluice committees have been
functional, confined to controlling the functioning of gates and in some cases collecting cash and
in kind contributions to remunerate the sluice operators and purchase lubricating materials for
the gates. The People's Participation Guidelines recently approved by BWDB provide a useful



- 8 -
framework for the mobilization of beneficiaries' participation and in defining their O&M
responsibilities.
5.10       Pilot Decentralized O&M  Program.   The project was to initiate a pilot
decentralized O&M programme for all BWDB's completed schemes in four BWDB divisions
(para 3.1). It was to assign full O&M responsibilities within a division to specific staff and
funds were to be provided to carry out these responsibilities. In addition, four staff-months of
technical assistance were provided to help BWDB in planning and execution of the programme.
5.11       The implementation was initially delayed by the late preparation of O&M proposals
from the O&M divisions and delays in the approval of the revised PP to extend the
implementation period from 3 years to 5 years as originally planned at appraisal. Subsequently,
consultants were recruited to review the O&M proposals of the four O&M divisions and prepare
final O&M work plans in 1986. Although the O&M work plans provided sufficient details on
rehabilitation works, not enough details were prepared for regular O&M after rehabilitation.
The proposed O&M plans also specified high staff requirements which would have been difficult
to implement by GOB/BWDB. Inadequate account was taken of possibilities for reducing costs
and improving reliability through beneficiary participation. However, it became apparent that
substantial rehabilitation works had to be carried out in all the completed schemes before they
could be handed over to the O&M Divisions for effective operation and subsequently to
beneficiaries. Therefore, a total of 26 schemes, including 11 FCD covering about 104,550 ha
and 15 FC covering about 454,500 ha, were rehabilitated and some new structures were
constructed during FY86-FY90. However, as BWDB failed to carry out regular O&M after
the completion of rehabilitation works, the pilot O&M programme was suspended in 1991 -- to
be taken over under the on-going Systems Rehabilitation Project, which is intended to establish
the institutional framework for O&M.
5.12       Procurement of Equipment. The project was to provide funds for the procurement
of construction and office equipment and vehicles for the design, construction and O&M of
subprojects and the implementation of the pilot O&M programme. The procurement of
equipment was seriously delayed due to the late calling of tenders and the consequent lengthy
and cumbersome bid evaluation and approval procedures. The actual procurement was much
lower than the appraisal estimates (Annex 1, Table 6) due to funding constraints, GOB's import
restriction imposed in 1988 and the introduction of contracting on a turnkey basis (para 5.5).
5.13      Technical Assistance.  Support for technical assistance prior to the Credit
effectiveness was provided under the IDA Fourth Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1124-BD)
for the identification and preparation of feasibility studies of 15 subprojects and engineering
designs of 10 subprojects. By November 1984, feasibility studies of 15 subprojects and designs
of 8 subprojects were completed. However, the designs of 2 subprojects were only partially
done and the remaining works had to be completed by the consultants financed under the project.



- 9 -
5.14      Under the project, UNDP was to provide grant facilities to fund a total of 1,122
staff-months of technical assistance, including 64 staff-months of foreign and 1,058 staff-months
of local consultants, for the identification of 36 subprojects, preparation of feasibility studies and
engineering designs of 20 subprojects, monitoring of construction of 27 subprojects, preparation
of O&M manuals for 27 subprojects, planning and execution of the pilot O&M programme and
the evaluation of project impact. The UNDP grant facility became effective in March 1985 to
fund the technical assistance during February 1985-June 1990 but was extended to June 1991 to
cover the increased technical assistance required for the increased preparation works resulting
from the increased areas of subprojects and for monitoring of construction during the extended
implementation period. The total grant was, therefore, increased from the original amount of
US$2.0 million to US$2.47 million. Further, the technical assistance needs from July 1991 to
February 1992, amounting to US$88,555 million, were financed under the IDA Fifth Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 1440-BD).
5.15      The performance of the consultants was in general satisfactory. The preparation
works were completed on time and quality was good. The monitoring of construction and
technical advice on quality of works were adequate and helpful for project implementation.
During 1985-1992, a total of 1,620 staff-months of consulting services including 72 staff-months
of foreign and 1,548 staff-months of local consulting services were utilized. The activities
performed by these consultants included identification of 36 subprojects, preparation of
feasibility studies of 18 subprojects, engineering designs of 18 subprojects, monitoring of
construction of subprojects, preparation of O&M manuals for 13 subprojects, preparation of
O&M work plans for four O&M divisions, completion of the socio-economic bench mark
surveys in 6 subprojects and women in development and environmental bench mark surveys in
5 subprojects (Annex 1, Table 4 ).
5.16      Training.   UNDP also provided funds for the training of BWDB's project
personnel, including workshops, seminars, study tours to similar projects, short and long-term
overseas training. The actual training programme included: (i) two regional seminars organized
during Sept-Oct 1989 for 106 BWDB's field personnel on survey and investigation, engineering
design and supervision of construction; (ii) an 8-week training course at the Asian Institute of
Technology (AIT), Bangkok, during 1987-1989 for 13 participants in planning and design of
small scale water resources development projects; and (iii) an 11-month post graduate diploma
courses at AIT during 1988-1989 for 5 participants. Although the third seminar was planned,
it was initially delayed by the 1991 flood and eventually not organized due to shortage of grant
funds. The number of participants attending the regional seminar were substantially lower than
the original plan due to weak responses from the BWDB field divisions. Due to UNDP's limited
funds, the number of personnel attending the overseas training courses were also lower, and no
training in management and planning for senior and middle-level staff was conducted. The
seminars were found satisfactory and useful for project design and implementation of small scale
subprojects. However, due to lack of evaluation reports on use made of the training by
recipients, the effectiveness of the overseas training can not be assessed.



- 10 -
5.17       Project Expenditures.  The actual total project costs in Taka are estimated at
Tk 2,059.72 million, or 42% higher than the appraisal estimates of Tk 1,449.83 million (Part
III/5A). However, due to substantial depreciation of the Taka against the US dollar, total
project costs in US dollar equivalent are US$59.52 million, only 3% higher than the appraisal
estimates of US$58 million.
6.         Project Results
6.1        Project Objectives.  The project has largely achieved its principal objective of
increasing crop production in the areas of the 17 subprojects constructed during the project
period. In terms of physical targets, albeit with serious implementation delays, the project has
completed 17 subprojects, 63% of the appraisal target of 27, but the total benefited areas
increased by 18%, from 91,125 ha to 107,789 ha. However, as noted in paras 5.8-5.9, the
project had very limited impact in introducing the improved O&M of subprojects and in creating
awareness for O&M among beneficiaries. It could not initiate the intended nationwide O&M
programme for all BWDB's completed schemes through the implementation of a pilot
decentralized O&M programme. Work toward this goal is continuing under the ongoing
Systems Rehabilitation Project.
6.2       Project Benefits. The increased food crop production in the project is estimated
at 184,400 tons annually at full development, 68 % higher than the appraisal estimates of 109,500
tons. The larger benefited areas and the higher incremental yields of paddy (mainly aus, aman
and boro) are the main contributing factors. The total areas benefiting from 17 subproject
increased from about 91,125 ha estimated at appraisal to about 107,789 ha at project completion.
The total areas benefiting from the 15 FCD subprojects increased by 27% from about 81,405
ha to about 103,652 ha. However, due to the reduction of the irrigation subprojects from the
original 5 to 2 and the substantially reduced service area in the Halda Extension subproject, total
areas benefiting from the two irrigation subprojects fell by 57% from 9,720 ha to about 4,137
ha (1,037 ha in the Chenchuri Beel and 3,100 ha in the Halda Extension).
6.3        The estimated crop production in Without Project (WOP) and With Project (WP)
situations are based on the limited data from the bench mark surveys, crop data provided by the
Department of Agriculture Extension (DAE) and additional interviews with farmers outside and
within the five subprojects5 by the PCR mission. Based on this data, cropping intensities in
these selected subproject areas have increased by 20%-40% and yields of paddy by 10%-50%
(10%-15% in FCD and 30%-50% in irrigation subprojects) compared with the appraisal
estimates of 25%-30% and 10% respectively. The project's flood protection and improved
drainage have encouraged farmers to adopt irnproved farming practices, including shifts from
broadcasting to transplanting paddy, use of HYV, the increased input use and an expansion of
dry season cultivation.
6.4        Economic Rate of Return. As presented in Part III/6B and Annex 2, the economic
rates of return (ERRs) were re-estimated for S of the 17 subprojects and extrapolated for the
total project. The ERRs were estimated at about 18%-30% for four subprojects (Kangsha FCD,
Bighai FC, Kalaroa drainage and Chenchuri Beel irrigation) and 25.2% for the whole project
5. Kangsha River FCD, Bighai River FC, Kalaroa drainage Chenchuri Beel and Halda Extension irrigation.



- 11 -
compared with the appraisal estimate of 21 % -40% and 30% respectively. The lower ERRs are
due mainly to substantially longer implementation period resulting in delayed accrual of benefits
and lower prices of outputs than anticipated at project appraisal. Due to higher investment and
O&M costs and smaller service area, the re-estimated ERR of the Halda Extension subproject
is 12%.
6.5       Income Effects. The project works have helped to raise the net farn income of
farmers in the subproject areas. Farm budget analyses (Part III/6C and Annex 2) show that at
full development, net farm income for 3000 farms would increase by 35% for FCD subprojects
and 170% for irrigation subprojects over the without project situation.  The re-estimated
incremental annual net farm incomes from 3 acre owner-operator farms, expressed in 1994
constant prices would be Tk 8,000-Tk 36,000, reflecting real increases of 37%-170% above the
appraisal estimates (adjusted to 1994 constant prices). The project has directly benefitted about
92,300 farm families, 15 % higher than the appraisal estimates.
6.6        Environmental Impact. Based on the results of the bench mark surveys on the
environmental aspects conducted in 1992 in 5 subprojects6, no detrimental effects to the
environment were observed in the subproject areas. In fact, the subprojects have helped in
increasing incomes of landless people and destitute women and improving living conditions of
farmers in the subproject areas. However, some minor adverse impacts were observed on
fisheries, navigation and flooding in adjacent areas.
6.7       Irrigation Water Charges. A covenant for full O&M cost recovery on BWDB's
gravity irrigation systems, to be attained on a phased basis by 1990, did not achieve its
anticipated results. The SAR for the Systems Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2099-BD) noted that
the system for assessment and collection of water charges is cumbersome and overly staff-
intensive and that reliability of irrigation supply must be upgraded in many projects before water
rates can be effectively collected. A program to improve collections, using simplified systems,
in selected projects with satisfactory irrigation services, is being implemented under Credit 2099.
Performance remains unsatisfactory, but attempts to improve cost recovery are in process.
7.         Project Sustainabilitv
7.1        The sustainability of project operations will depend on the priority given by
GOB/BWDB to improving O&M performance and the level of beneficiary participation achieved
in undertaking preventive maintenance. The poor performance in these fields during project
implementation indicates severe risks to the sustainability of the completed infrastructure. By
the end of the project, BWDB had initiated beneficiary participation through motivational
meetings, but efforts were still at a preliminary stage. Improving the O&M of all completed
subprojects, including the 17 subprojects completed under this project, and introducing
beneficiary participation in preventive maintenance are major objectives of the ongoing BWDB
Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP) financed in part by Cr. 2099-BD, with co-financing from
the European Union, Government of Netherlands and the World Food Program. While there
have been some notable improvements (expenditures on O&M has quadrupled from FY89 to
FY94), progress to date under SRP on institutional issues has been less than expected. Work
is continuing, however, and there is still time to make these efforts successful.   The
6. Kangsha, Kalaroa, Bighai, Polder 39/1A and sutki sub-projects.



- 12 -
Government has been informed that demonstrating that existing infrastructure is being operated
and maintained on a sustainable basis will be crucial to IDA ability to consider future water
control projects in Bangladesh.
8.        Bank Performance
8.1        Through the project cycle, IDA's perfornance was generally satisfactory. The
project was well defined and the SAR provided the required framework and guidelines for
project implementation. However, project implementation and operation of subprojects suffered
from some shortcomings in project design which included: (i) the appraisal mission was
optimistic in fixing a construction programme of 27 subprojects over an implementation period
of 5 years without giving due weight to Government's cumbersome procedures for the
completion of pre-construction activities and funding constraints; (ii) the economic viability of
subprojects agreed after appraisal did not appear to have been checked as thoroughly as the
subprojects reviewed at appraisal; (iii) unanticipated hydromorphological changes resulted in the
erosion of some completed infrastructure in the Bighai subproject and high O&M costs for
desilting in the Kalaroa subproject (para 4.3); and (iv) the reliance on consultants to recommend
the institutional arrangements for beneficiaries' O&M responsibilities during project
implementation gave IDA less leverage for ensuring that these arrangements are actually carried
out than if the establishment of these arrangements had been a condition of lending.
8.2        During implementation period, IDA's supervision missions made positive
contributions to the physical and institutional development of the project. It helped in prompt
resolution of project implementation issues which enabled BWDB to complete the construction
programme of 17 subprojects. Regular field visits were made and advice was sound, particularly
on quality of construction works and the needs for rehabilitation, regular O&M of subprojects
and beneficiaries' participation. When the project implementation was seriously delayed, IDA
was flexible and helpful to re-structure the scope of the project and re-schedule its
implementation period. However, despite persistent follow-up and pressures exerted by IDA,
GOB/BWDB failed to comply with the Credit covenants and conditions for the Credit extensions
in implementing the two O&M components (O&M of subprojects and the pilot O&M
programme), the transfer of O&M responsibilities to PCs and beneficiaries.
8.3       The main lessons of experience that may be relevant to IDA are: (a) to ensure
timely and successful project implementation, it is essential to tailor the construction programme
to the practical resources of the Government with prudent allowance for the time required for
the completion of pre-construction activities; (b) the design of subprojects should be reviewed
carefully to ensure adequate account is taken of possible hydromorphological changes in locating
major structures at the appropriate sites, so as to avoid/minimize erosion of the completed
infrastructures and unnecessary high O&M costs which might arise after construction; (iii) the
economic viability of subprojects approved after appraisal should be reviewed with the same
thoroughness as subprojects checked during appraisal; and (iv) the successful implementation of
improved O&M of subprojects and the transfer of the preventive maintenance to beneficiaries
require a strong commitment from the Borrower/BWDB, the organization of beneficiaries in
smaller and manageable groups and clear institutional arrangements for beneficiaries' O&M
responsibilities.



- 13 -
9.         Borrower Performance
9.1        The performance of the Borrower/BWDB in carrying out its obligations was below
expectations. The chief weakness was the persistent failure in timely acquisition of land for
construction and adequate provision of counterpart funds when required. This was perhaps due
to overoptimism at appraisal, the Government's cumbersome procedures and inadequate
compensation provided for land acquisition, and the difficult budgetary position at that time.
The irregular meetings of DPEC and its insufficient attention to resolving the implementation
issues as well as weak project coordination and management were factors contributing to further
delays in project implementation. Another institutional weakness in BWDB is the lack of
initiative and commitment to O&M works. However, there were some improvements towards
the end of project implementation period when efforts were concentrated in organizing
motivational meetings and forming smaller and more manageable sluice committees. These have
not met with much success mainly due to the limited number of motivational meetings and lack
of clear institutional arrangements for beneficiaries' O&M responsibilities. The audited accounts
and reports were often submitted late.
9.2        The main lessons of experience for the Borrower are: (i) it is important at
appraisal/negotiations for the Borrower to accept only such projects as are within its funding and
managerial capacities; shortage of funds and poor project management severely delayed project
implementation and affected overall progress of the present project; (ii) timely completion of
pre-construction activities can be ensured by an effective project management with strong
support from the inter-agency coordination committee to resolve implementation issues among
different agencies; and (iii) it is essential for GOB/BWDB to fulfil its commitment in carrying
out regular O&M with more responsibilities borne by beneficiaries, without which the
investments would be lost and benefits not sustained.
10.       Project Relationship
10.1      The relationship between IDA and the Borrower was satisfactory throughout the
project period. This was particularly important in successfully manoeuvering the project through
times of severe delays.  IDA/Borrower relationship with UNDP was also satisfactory,
particularly UNDP's flexibility in increasing technical assistance funds during the extended
project implementation period.
11.       Consulting Services
11.1      As noted in paras 5.15, services rendered by the consultants financed by UNDP
grant was generally satisfactory. However, some weaknesses in their proposed O&M plans are
noted in para 5. 11.



- 14 -
11.2       Civil works were always completed late due to late calling of tenders and award of
contracts, difficulties in management of numerous small reaches and award of concrete works
to inexperienced contractors. These factors resulted in many contracts being terminated and the
subsequent delays in re-tendering and fresh awards. It was further adversely affected by the late
distribution of equipment. GOB subsequently introduced contracts on a turnkey basis in 1989,
under which contractors had to supply their own equipment and other resources, in an attempt
to improve efficiency of contractors and to avoid delays in supply by BWDB. However,
implementation of these new procedures encountered difficulties. BWDB did not have the
capacity to test building materials from many small contractors.  Furthermore the small
conractors employed did not have sufficient capital to advance for materials which absorb at least
60% of the tender sum. (This may indicate that contract sizes were too small to attract more
substantial contractors and that there were inadequacies in prequalification of contractors'
financial capacity.)
12.        Project Documentation and Data
12.1       The SAR and the Development Credit Agreement provided a satisfactory overall
implementation framework for IDA, Borrower and BWDB. The feasibility studies of four
subprojects provided sufficient data for the project appraisal. Project documentation during
implementation which comprised the feasibility studies and engineering designs of 17 subprojects
were sufficiently detailed to ensure effective implementation. The portfolio of subprojects for
implementation was reduced initially to 19 and eventually 17 due to funding and timing
constraints as well as low economic viability of one scheme. However, constraints of land
acquisition and the delays on other pre-construction activities reduced the usefulness of the
appraisal target projections.
12.2       The progress reports on physical and financial achievements of subprojects provided
a good basis for the preparation of the PCR. However, accounts were not kept in sufficient
detail to allow realistic comparison with the appraisal estimates and to provide actual status of
the subprojects, since separate accounts were not maintained according to either project
components or expenditure categories. Also, information is insufficient for a fully satisfactory
assessment of the project impact, as no post-evaluation studied have been conducted. However,
the six socio-economic bench mark surveys, crop data provided by DAE and additional
interviews with farmers by the mission in five subproject areas served as basis for the financial
and economic re-evaluation in the PCR.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (BWDB)
SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
(Credit No. 1467-BD)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Bank Performance
Supervision of World Bank, RMB, Dhaka was excellent, particularly their
suggestion regarding O&M  activities, training, quality control, etc. encouraged BWDB
personnel.
2.         Borrowers Performance
Delay in project implementation may be attributed mainly to land acquisition and
secondly late release of fund. There are some minor causes also such as revision of design,
procurement of equipments, etc. Such short-comings will be taken care of in future.
3.        Relation between the Bank and the Borrower
Relationship between BWDB and World Bank, RMB, Dhaka was good and
cooperative.
4.         Performance of Co-financiers
There was a Co-financier in IDA Aided Subproject namely UNDP, (TA Grant
BGD/84/011). Relationship between BWDB and UNDP was satisfactory.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (BWDB)
SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
(Credit No. 1467-BD)
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.              Related IDA Credits
Credit No.                                     Title                                      Year of            Status
Approval
Cr. 340-BD         Chanpur Irrigation n Project                                                1972              Closed
Cr. 864-BD         Drainage & Flood Control Project                                            1978              Closed
Cr. 955-BD         Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project                                1979              Closed
Cr. 1184-BD         Drainage & Flood Control n1 Project                                        1981              Closed
Cr. 1587-BD         Flood Rehabilitation Project                                               1985              Closed
Cr. 1591-BD        Third Flood Control & Drainage Project                                      1985              Closed
Cr. 1784-BD        Fourth Flood Control & Drainage Project                                     1987              Closed
Cr. 1870-BD        Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation n Project                1988              Closed
Cr. 1876-BD        Second Flood Rehabilitation Project                                         1988              Closed
Cr. 2048-BD        Third Flood Rehabilitation Project                                          1989              Closed
Cr.2099-BD          BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                        1990            In Progress



- 17 -
2.             Project Timetable
Item                   Date Planned                    Date Revised                  Date Actual
Preparation a/                                                                                  1982-1983
Appraisal                                                                                       June 1983
Negotiations                                                                                  February 1984
Board Approval                                                                                 May 1, 1984
Credit Signature                                                                              May 18, 1984
Credit Effectiveness b-        August 16, 1984             November'84, March'85              April 16, 1985
Project Completion               June 30, 1989         June '90, June '91, June '92,        October 31, 1993
June '93
Credit Closing                December 31, 1989         Dec. '90, Dec. '91, Dec.' 92,        June 30, 19932
June '93
a/ Preparation of feasibility reports of four subprojects for appraisal, including Kangsha River Flood
Control and Drainage, Kalaroa Drainage, Bighai River Flood Control and North Chenchuri Beel
Irrigation subprojects, financed under the IDA Fourth Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1124-BD).
b! Date of planned Credit effectiveness was postponed due to delays in the acquisition of land and the
completion of the engineering designs of subprojects scheduled for the implementation in the first
financial year.
9 Closing Date was maintained at December 31, 1992 except for the coastal embankment rehabilitation
works added to the Credit after the April 1991 Cyclone, and one equipment contract.
3.             Credit Disbursements (SDR million)
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Appraisal Estimate    4.20    13.60    23.60    32.90    38.90    40.20    40.20    40.20    40.20    40.20
Actual                2.93     3.39     5.33     7.88    12.61    16.46    19.06    24.77    39.26    40.15
Actual as % of       70       25       23       24       32      41       47       62       98       100
Appraisal Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: November 2, 1993.
Comments: Total disbursements were SDR 40.15 million, including SDR 9.22 million for the rehabilitation of the coastal embankments and
SDR 5.27 million for the rehabilitation of 26 completed schemes not financed under the project.
Due mainly to substantial depreciation of US dollar against SDR, total disbursements in US dollar terms increased to 53.43 million.



- 18 -
4.             Project Implementation
Key Indicators (June 1993)
SAR               Actual           Actual as %
of SAR
Land Acquisition (ha)                                               1,639!f             1,120 u                  68
Civil Works:
- No. Subprojects                                                         27                    17               63
- Benefitted Area (ha)                                                 91,125              105,089              115
FCD:
- No. Subprojects                                                          8                     8              100
- Benefitted Area (ha)                                                 25,920               44,404              171
Drainage:
No. Subprojects                                                            8                     1               13
- No. Subprojects                                                      31,590               12,270               39
- Benefined Area (ha)
FC:
- No. Subprojects                                                          6                     6              100
- Benefitted Area (ha)                                                 23,895               46,978              197
Irrigation:
- No. Subprojects                                                           5                    2               40
- Benefited Area (ha)                                                   9,720                4,137               43
Vehicles (No.)                                                           243                  94 '               39
Equipment (No.)                                                          219                 135 f'              62
No. Subprojects under Pilot O&M                                             "                 26 f
Technical Assistance (staff-months):                                    1,122              1,620                144
- Foreign Consultants                                                     64                   72               113
- Local Consultants                                                     1,058                1,548              146
Polder Committees (No.)                                                   27                    17               63
3' Total land required for 17 subprojects estimated from the engineering designs but after the reduction in scope of 3 subprojects (Halda
Extension, Tarial Pachuria and Gangajhuri).
f Total land possession received at project closure in June 1993. The remaining 519 ha have already been acquired through local
arrangements, under which landowners agreed and surrendered land for conatruction to BWDB with assurance that land compensation
will be made after completion of official formalities at the DC offices.
f Reduced number of vehicle and equipment due to GOB's restriction on import and an introduction in 1989 of contracts on a turn key
basis, under which contractors have to supply their own equipment and other resources.
dJ Not specified at appraisal.
f Funds were utilized for rehabilitation/rectification works of 26 completed schemes not financed under the project.



- 19 
5.              Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal                              Actual]
Estimate a!                          Esti;mate b/
(Tk million)       (IUS$ million)       (Tk million)    (USS million)
Investigations and Surveys                                  10.08                 0.40              14.86             0.45
Land Acquisition                                           182.()1                7.32             183.78             5.37
Civil Works:
- 19 Subprojects                                           675 31)              27.01            1,022.73            29.63
Equipment                                                   8') 37                3.58             183.34             4.94
Operation and Maintenanice:
- Subprojects                                               71.11                2.84               15.75             0.41
- Pilot Programme                                          275.1(1               11.00             296.68             9.33
Engineering & Administration                                88.82                 3.56             188.20             5.50
Technical Assistance & Training                             57 14                 2.30             101.57             2.56
Food For Works Programme (FFWP)                                                                     52.81             1.33
Total Costs                                              1,449.83                58.00           2,059.72            59.52
Including physical and contingencies.
Excluding the costs of about Tk 482.00 million (US$12.63 million) for the rehabilitation of the cyclone damaged coastal
embankments.
Contnents: The actual total project costs are estimated at Tk 2,059.72 million (Annex 1, Table 5), including Tk 296.68 million (US$9.33
million) for the rehabilitation/rectification of 26 completed schemes not financed under the project, Tk 52.81 million for earthworks financed
under FFWP and FY94 ADP allocations of T'k 132.50 million, including Tk 19.15 million for completion of the rectification works of 8
subprojects, Tk 100.10 million for the installation of pumps in the Halda Extension subprojects and Tk 13.25 million for engineering and
administration. Excluding the costs for rehabilitation of 26 schemes (Tk 296.68 million), the construction costs of the Madhabpur and Perizpur-
Hizalgachi subprojects dropped during implementation (about Tk 3.13 million, US$0.09 million), the costs of technical assistance for the
preparation of feasibilities studies and designs of subprojeces not implemented under the project and the preparation of O&M works plans under
the pilot O&M programme (about Tk 24.77 million, U rS$0.64 million) and the procurement of equipment for the pilot O&M progranmne (Tk 6.8
million, US$0.18 million), the actual total costs of the 17 subprojects are about Tk 1,728.34 million, 54% higher than the appraisal estimates
of Tk 1120.00 million. The cost overrun was due mainly to the significant increases in the unit cost of land acquisition, construction works,
and the delayed construction programme resulting in the substantial increases in the overhead costs (engineering and administration) and the
technical assistance required for monitoring of the construction programme. However, in US dollar terms, due to substantial depreciation of
the Bangladesh Taka against the US dollar during the project implementation period, total costs of 17 subprojects are about $49.28 million, or
10% higher than the appraisal estimates of US$44.80 million. Expressed in FY94 Taka constant terms, total costs of 17 subprojects are
Tk 2043.29 million, or 5% higher than the appraisal estimates of Tk 1954.40 million (Annex 2, Table 17).
B. Project Financing (US$ million)
Planned         Final
UNDP                                              2.00           2.47
IDA                                              41.50           53.431a
Farmers' Contributions                            3.20             y
GOB                                              11.30            16.25
Total                                            58.00            72.15 1'
Notes: UNDP grant fund covered the technical assistance and training, while farmers' contributions included on-farm ditches and drains.
a/              Including US$12.63 million (SDR 9.22 million) allocated from the Credit savings for the rehabilitation of the coastal
embankments, about US$7.00 million (SDR 5.27 million) utilized for the rehabilitation of 26 completed schemes disbursed
under the pilot O&M component.
b/Data on farmers actual costs for on-farm irrigation ditches and drains are not available.
c/              Total project costs included US$12.63 for the rehabilitation of the coastal embankments, US$9.33 million for the rehabilitation
of 26 othet completed schemes and US$1.33 million financed under FFWP.



- 20 -
6.              Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraia                   Actual/
EsFimate              PCR Fstimate
Benefitted Area (ha)                                                        91,125                  107,789
Incremental Production (tonlyear)                                          109,500                  184,400
No. of Farm Families                                                        80,000                  92,300
IncrementaI Farm Employment (staff-days, million)                            5.9                      4.0
f' In FY94 constant prices.
B. Economic Impact
ERR (%)                                                               Appraisal Fsimate             PCR Estimate
- Subprojects f'                                                            21-40                       12-30
- Whole Project v                                                            30                          25.2
Assumptions:
- Project Life (years)                                                       30                          30
- Standard Conversion Factor                                                 0.83                        0.83
f Kangsha FCD, Kalaroa drainage, Bighai FC and Chenchuri Beel irrigation.
v At appraisal, ERR of the whole project was extrapolated based on ERRs of four subprojeets. The same extrapolation asnumptions plus
the results of an analysis of the Halda Irrigation Project were used in the PCR.
C. Financial Impact
Incremental Annsal Net Farm lncomes-3 acre farms (Tk)1    Apprais       PCR
Estimate      Estimate
FCD                                                          5,850        8,000
Irrigation                                                  13,140       36,000
11 FY94 Constant prices.
D. Studies
Not Applicable



- 21 -
7.             Status of Covenants
Section   Status f     Oziginal         Revised           Description of Covenant                  Comments
DCA                    Date             Date
3.01 (a)   OKI                                      The Borrower shall carry out the project  Project implementation seriously
through BWDB with due diligence and   delayed due to inadequate GOB funds
efficiently in conformity with appropriate up to 1990, untimely land acquisition
administrative, financial and engineering  and weak project coordination and
practices and provide promptly as needed management. Procurement of
the funds, facilities, service and other    equipment was held up due to delays
resources required for the purposes.  in the evaluation process by BWDB.
3.03      OK       January 1, 1985                  Selection of subprojects and appointment -
of implementing consultant.
3.04(c)   OK       April 1, 1985                    Furnish plan for monitoring the benefits  Delayed by one year as consultant on
and evaluation of impact.           UNDP grant funds was appointed in
February 1986.
3.06      OKI      Sufficiently in                  Acquire land as and when required.   Serious delays due to the lengthy and
advance of                                                           cumbersome land acquisition
construction                                                         procedures, inadequate funding and
required.                                                            lack of foUow-up by staff of BWDB at
DC offices and by DPS m at
ML&LR.
3.08      OKI      January 1, 1985 for              Work programme and staff requirements  O&M proposals for 4 divisions
1 division and July             for the pilot O&M programme.         received and work plans prepared by
1, 1985 for the                                                      consultants in 1986 but not
remaining 3                                                          implemented.
divisions.
4.01 (c)   OK      Within 9 months                   Audit reports.                      Audit reports were often submitted
after end of fiscal                                                  with delays.
year.
4.02 (b)   NC      January 1, 1986.                  Submit proposal for transferring O&M  No proposal has yet been prepared
responsibilities to PCs.            even at project closure. This covenant
has subsequently been removed from
this Credit, and it is being pursued
under the on-going Systems
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2099-BD).
4.03     NC        Collection of water              Water charges recovery.              No water charges have yet been
rates at 30% by                                                      implemented. This covenant has
1986, 67% by 1988                                                    subsequently been removed from this
and 100% by 1990.                                                    Credit, and it is being pursued under
the ongoing Systems Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 2099-BD) under which a
atudy is being carried out at the
Karnafuri Irrigation Project by
consultants.
OK =Covenant complied with.
OK1 =Partial compliance.
NC -Not complied.



- 22 -
8.            IJse of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
TIk                               LENP              LENA            LENN           SPN               Total
Pte-FY82                            1.S                                                               1.8
FY32                                5.6                                                               5.6
FY33                                7.7              15.9                                            23.7
FY34                                                 44.5            4.9           2.9               52.3
FY85                                                                               19.0               19.0
FY36                                                                               2S.3               28.3
FY37                                                                               27.0               27.0
FY33                                                                               18.3               13.3
FY89                                                                               11.2               11.2
FY90                                                                               18.4               18.4
FY91                                                                               15.0               15.0
FY92                                                                               20.3               20.3
FY93                                                                               15.9               15.9
FY94                                                                               14.6 f             14.6
Todal                              15.1              60.4            4.9           190.9             2713
Y              lncluding 12.8 staff weeks for PCR.
LENP - Activities prior to appraisal.
LENA - Activitis  ted to appraisl.
LENN - Negotiation activities.
SPN - Supervision time.
PCR - Project Compntion Report.



- 23 -
B. Missions
Type of
Date                     No. of    Man-days in  Specialization  Performance Rating   Trend    Problums
(Month/Year)    Sent By    Persons         Field           -                 F
Preparation f    1982-1983                                                          A    B    C    D
Appraisal           6/83          IDA          4            84          2A,B,E
Supervision
I               10-11/84         IDA         2             4            A,E        -   -      -    -                   -
nI                4/85           IDA         1            10             E         1   2    2    2         2         T,M
HI                10/85          IDA         3            13            2A,D      2   2    2    2          2         F,M
IV               4-5/86          IDA         2            63            A,E       2    1    2    2         1          F,T
V               10-11/86         IDA         2            18             2E        1   2    2    2         2          M
VI               3-4/87          IDA         I            10             E        2   3    3    3          2         F,M
VII             11-12/87         IDA         3            75            2E,D      2    2    3    2         2         F,M
vm               4-5/88         IDA          3            75            2E,D      3    3    3    3         3         F,M
ix              11-12/88         IDA         3            60            2E,D      3   3    2    3          3         F,M
X                 4/89           IDA         3            48            2E,D      3    2    2    3         2         F,M
Xi                11/89          IDA         3            48            2E,d      2    2    2    2         2         F,M
XII               5/90           IDA         4            68            3E,D      3   2    2    3          3         F,M
xm              11-12/90         IDA         3            72            2E,D      3   2    2    3          3         F,M
XIV              748/91          IDA         3            160           3E,D      2    3    2    2         3         F,M
XV                12/91          IDA         3            60            2E,D      2   3      2    2        3         F,M
XVI              5-6/92          IDA         3            60             3E        1   3    2    2         3          M
xvii              12/92         IDA          3            45            2E,D       1   3    3    3         3          M
XVIII            6-8/93          IDA         3            45            2E,D       1   2    3    3         1          M
f Preparation of feasibility studies of 4 subprojects by Consltants financed under the Fourth Technical Assistance Project (Cr.I 124-BD).
' A = Agriculture; B =Economics; C =Programme Officer; D =Disburaement; E = Engineer.
f Performance Rating: A = availability of funds; B =project management; C =development impact; D = overall status.
I = Problem-frec or minor problems;
2 =Moderate problems;
3 =Major problems.
f Trend: I =improving; 2 =stationary; 3 =deteriorating.
f Type of problems: F -Financial; T -Technical; M -Management.
C. Costs
Not Available






- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Subproject, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PROJECT COSTS
CONTENTS
TABLES:
1.                  Status of Subprojects
2.1 and 2.2.        Physical Achievements of Subprojects
3.                  Summary Findings of the Operational Status Surveys
4.                  Technical Assistance
5.1 and 5.2.        Project Actual Costs
6.                  Procurement of Equipment



-26-
Annex 1
Table 1
BANGLADESH
BWD B Small Schemes Project
(CR 1467 - BD)
Project Completon Report
Status of Sub- Projects
Sub-projects                  Typeol  Gross Aea(ha) Net Area (ha)      Year         Year  Constructiom OperationStatus of Land (ha)
Subprojects                 Value       Commence Complion duration (yr) Status  required   possession
received
1. Sakuchia Island                FCD           4310         3924      5/88         6/91         3.1      FO      228.36    106.23
2. Kangsha River                   FCD         11620          9828     3185         6/91         6.3      PO       137.70    135.69
3. Polder52153 A&B                FCO           8030          6440      1t89        6/91         2.4      FO       263.00     24.50
4.Tarall Pachurla                  FCD          4150          3161      1/89        6192         3.4      FO         3.11      3.11
5. Sutid River                     FCD           810           810      12/85       6/86         0.6      FO         2.02      2.02
6. Polder56/57 Ext                FCD           1520          1430     4/87         6/89         2.2      FO        54.64     32.85
7. Ganggaihuri                     FCD         15850         13200     3/87         6/92         5.3      FO       155.89    155.89
8. Bighai River                   FC            6900          4858     3/85         6/91         6.3      PO        96.12     95.12
9. Polder 39/1A                    FC          11750          9400     5186         6191         5.1      FO        80.00     80.00
10. Rahimpui Khal                 PC           10930        10120      12/87        6/89         1.6      FO         1.81      1.81
11. Polder 39/IA                  FC            5870         4700      3/87         6/89         2.2      FO       27.78      27.78
12. Kalisdashkhall-Akpara         fC           16150        12170       1/87        6193         6.5      FO      275.00    221.13
13. Paisarthat-Ramsil             FC            7280         5730      4/87         6192         5.2      FO      142.89    110.85
14. Aol Beel                      D            15750        12270      3/87         6190         3.3      FO       27.00       0.00
15. Kalaroa                       D             8090         5611      2185         6/87         2.5      PO       39.24      19.95
16. Chenchtri Beel                1             1335         1037      1/89         6/94         5.5     NO        24.48      24.48
17. Halda Extension               I             4230         3100      4/88         6/94         6.2     NO        80.06      78.69
Total                                         134575       107789                                                1639.10   1120.10
FCD-flood control and drainage
FC-flood control
D= drainage
I-irrigation
1/ Operation statusas December 1993. FO-iu1993. FO-fully operational: PO-partially operational;NO-not operational
Source: Project management Unit (PMU)  PMU)



BANGLADESH
8WO  SoLiL Sdicrries Proecls
(Cr. 1 467-BD)
ProIcCI Conipicilon1 ACp(l
Pliyslcnl Actievcincits Of Sulb-fo)CCIs
DcscrIlpllon                      Utill                                                   SLW-ROILCI                                                           Sib-loial
KDlaroa   ClhCncltil KInilgsi1    BigIal      StAkt     Polder   RahimpLr   Poldcr   Kalldash-   Polder
Bccl      lwcr        Mver       Rhvnr      39/1 A      KhiI      39/1 C   kinll-Npa 66/67 Ext
EARTHWOFI(S
- EmbItfnirricnI                  krn                                     25.8       22.7                     40                    15        12.7       11.1       127.3
- ClostUe                         Fno                                                   6                     14                     5                      1          2G
- nod Idprovoitnrt              krri                                                                                                                                   0
- Dralingc cnrals                 kin               21.4          6         34                    5.8       16.3                               92                   175.5
- krlgnlloticallnls               kilt                         16.4                                                                                                 164
STRUCTURES
llydItullcCsktucItrcsCIFtaInl                                                                                                                                      305
.nefguLalor                     no                   5                                                                             G 8  1  1  1  6  6     1          37
. Fltusing sItLIc               no                   4                                10                    30                     5           I                     50
. Irfloat1o0  cnf%al sIrutcie  no                            152                                                                                                   152
. Irlgallon 1l cI               no                                        38                                                                  16                     54
. Oulict saiucitie              no                                         6                                                                  5                      11
Gracc cortrd slrudtrc         nK)                   I                                                                                                                t
PuioIp)liK slillon             no                              2                                                                                                      2
Orldkg/cLiveri                 no                  10                                                                                        13                     23
t/ldl3igd                     no                              6                                                                                                      6
EQUIPMENT
- Puinps                          [la                             4                                                                                                     4
Soirce: Ptorpess Rcpo Is. PMU.



BANGLADESH
BWDB S Scenecs PF o)ccl
I    (CR. 1467-BD)
Proiecl Comr)lellolflcpoet
Ptryslical Actilevenertls of Sib- Projecis
Ileni                            Unil                                        Slit)-I) oject                                           Toall      Total       Acltnt
---------------------------------------------------------------- based on    AcILrI    as % of
GariqajitxI ArolB ccl  PalsarInlt  HidnI 1/  Tarail 1/   Poider   Sakticli               design                 design
I/                  Rafrisil   Exicitslon  Pachtfila    62/63   IslInd              cstiTnIc              esitinic
EARTHWORI(S
- Emnb:arrient                  kml               50.6                  15.1                             53 7       26.5                  401      273.2          68
- Clostic                       rio                                        4                                8          9                   47         47          100
- Rond laiprovemcit             km                 5.7                    25                                                                        30.7
- DaInage canals                kml                124         70       13.6                              1.9       42.8                  545        428          78
- Irrigaton canals              kii                                                  16                                                    78         32          42
STRUCTURES
- Hydlautlc siruclttrcs In IoIal    no                                                                                                    818        784          96
. Reguialor                   nTo                  5          2          4         24          3          7          5                              87                     1
. Fitsltiln  shicc            no                   3          1         36                                                                          90
. IfFIgaIon canal sirucixo    no                                                                                                                    152
lIrigallon file(             no                  27                    44         .                                                                125
. Otillet siriclItc           nKo                                                  13                                                               .24
. Gade con0iol stIc1lieC       no                                                                                                                     1
- Pumpirxj slallon               no                                                   2                                                      4          4         100
- Bldtge/cttvcrl                 no                             n          3                                4                               65         38          58
- BLiltilrx                      no                                        1                                3          4                               14
EQUIPIVENT
- Pqgrljl)                       no                                                   6                                                                10
so,icc: n rxjcss neporis. PMU.
1/ Reduced In scopc ol works.



-29-
BANGLADESH                                         Annex 1
BWDB Srnall Schemes project                               Table 3
(CR. 1,467-BD)Tae3
Project Completion Report
Summary Findings of the Operational Status Surveys (November 1992)
-- - ---- - - - - - --- - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - --- - - - - - --- - - - - - - -_
Sub-project          Description                     Findings
Polder 39/1A         Embankments          in poor condition, showing cuts
Sluices              4 need protective works
9 flapgates damaged. 1 gate missing in S3
Closures             cut by public at Choto Kathaltali
public obstruction
Khals                silted-up
Polder 3911C         Embankments          breached at 3 locations
R/S slopes slided down
Sluices              block protection works partly damaged
7 flapgates damaged
flushing sluices not functioning properly
Khals                silted-up
Sakuchia Island      Embankments          R/S slopes show damage
Sluices              3 loose aprons damacged
Closures             R/S slope of 3 closures shovw damage
Polder 56/17         Embankments          damage by wave acti :n over 2.75 km
Drain               tail end silted-up
Sluices              scouring u/s and d/s
Polder 52/53         Embankments          R/S slope damaged p. l.iy
Regulators           R/S apron damaged . 5 sluices
flap gates and rubber seals damaged
lift  gtes damaged in :wo sluices
Biahai               Embankments          gap of 6.3 km, 2 km cr,oded by shifting channe!
16 km partially dama;ec:
open at 4 khals
Sluices              aprons damaged, sczur holes
erosion at 6 sluices
Irrigation canals    blocked by roads
Paisarha-Ramsil      Embankments          need resectioning
public objection against closures at Bova-tia Kha:
Regulators           loose aprons damaged at 3 regulators
flap gates at 2 regulators
Closure              1 incomplete
Drain                congesticn because of lack- of link wvith low areas
Kangsha River        Drain                siltation by approx. 1 m
Embankments          side-slopes damaged by wave-action
Gangaihuri           Drain                only 2.3 km out of 5.4 km completed
drainage congestion in some areas
Old Sutki River      Drain                silted-up
Rahimpur Khal        Regulators           siltation u/s and d/s of structures
Halda Extension      Pumping stamions     not yet complete
Irrigation system    not yet complete
Chenchuri Beel       Pumping stations     not yet complete
Irrigation system    5.8 km of canal incomplete
Kalidashkhafi-Arpara  Drains              13.6 km incomplete, obstruction by population
local drainage problem
Arol Beel            Drains               800 ha suffer from drainage problems
Kalaroa              Sluices              4 out of 5 sluices not functioning properly
because of siltation in Betna River outfall
-------.-------------------------------------------------------__



BANGLADESI I
OWD0 Sitiall .clenies Ptoject                                                                  Annox I
(CR. 14G77-B0)                                                                        Table 4
Projoct Compblion roport
Tochnical Assislanco
Descriplion                                 Number of Sub- projecis                                              Numbor ofman-Months
---------------------------------------------------------__------------------__------------------------
total         PrC/EC   Prnc                                 Total                   Fotoign            local
SAR   aclual actual as   actual  actual                                  Aclual as
% SAIn                                       SAR    actual  % SAIR    SAR   actual    SAR   aclual
IDENTIFICATION                 51       51      100      15       36
STLD Y
FEASIBIUTY 1/                  35       33      94       15      I1                        192       NA               24      NA      168   NA
STLUOY
DETAILED DESIGN 2/             27       25      93        a       17                       836       NA               36      NA      800   NA
1028      NA               60       66     968   NA
CONSTRUCTION 31                27       19      70        0       19                         90      NA                                90. NA                   o
MONITORING
O&M MANUALS                    27       ii      41        0       11
PILOT O&M                                                                                     4       6      150       4        6
STUDIES (divisions)             4        4      100       0        4
Dench mark Surveys               -      II 1I
Total 4/    1122    1620      144      64       72    1058    1548
I/ Two feasibility studies prepared by PRC/ECI wero roviewed by EPC. In addition, Ihl Rahimpur Klial was preparod by BWDB.
2/ The dosigns oa tour sub-propcls Inilialed by PRC/ECI were compinlod by EPC.
3/ Initially 27 sub-prolocis wore approved by BWDB for implementalion but Iheso woro reducod to 19 sub-projecis In 1987 and evontually to 17 In 1989.
4/ Total SAn eslimates did not Included man-montihs of PlC as Ihese were financed under Ihe Fourth Technical Assistanco Projoct,
and iho bench mark surveys whiichi wero not eslimated al appraisal. Total aclual was oxcluded man-monihs of PRC.
Hi 



Ban)gladesh
BWDB Small Scheines Project
(Cr. 1467-BD)
Project Coinpiltion Repoit
Projea Aclual Cosis(Tl( Million)
FY85      FY86      FY07      FY08       FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94      Total
1.lnvesligalions&Sinvey              0.95      1.90      2.45       1.26      1.34      2.29      1.20      3.39       0.00      0.00     14.06
2.La-idAculijisiliorn                G.B2     10.00      7.56      12.87     18.26     31.56     34.78      30.43     23.50      0.00    183.78
3.Civil Works                       14I.00    35.20     51.56      51.71    149.00    196.03    211 .0     200.96     92.36     19.15   1022.73
4.EquLipmIcnl0. 0.                             0.00     18.60       0.44      6.00   .  n.05     20.07       0.32     20.00    100.10    183.34
5.O&M Cosis
-SLib-projects                      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.20      9.9Al     5.5D      0.00      15.75    u
-Pilol Programme                     0.00     19.29     63.00     73.70      65.43     63.77     11.41      0.00       0.00      0.00    296.68    '
Sub-tlotal                          0.00      19.29     63.00     73.711    65.43      63.77     11.67      9.91       5.58      0.00    312.43
G. Emng.&Admirnisiration             3.28      5.85     27.47       7.50     40.70     10.09     35.91      32.55     10.80     13.25    100.20
7.TecdumicalAssist.mncc             30.00     21.30      15.47      6.00      2.30     13.22      5.38       3.19      4.71      0.00    101.57
8.FFWP                               0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     20.89     31.92     52.01
Total Costs                         55.85    101.62    186.19    161.56    203.91    325.81    321.77    280.75    177.84    164.42   2059.72
Source: Project Maitageitient Unit (PMU)
H 
0.W
t   -



BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(Cr. 1467-BD)
- Project Completion Report
Actual Project Costs (Tk Million)
FY85     FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91     FY92      FY93      FY94      Total
Investigaticn&Survey               0.95      1.90      2.45      1.26      1.34      2.29     1.28      3.39      0.00      0.00     14.86
Land Acquisition                   6.82     18.00      7.56     12.87     18.26     31.56    34.78     30.43     23.50      0.00    183.78
Civil Works1/                     14.72     35.26     50.91     49.33    149.00    196.03    211.88    200.96    92.36     19.15   1019.60
O&M of Sub-projects                0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.26      9.91      5.58      0.00     15.75
Eng.&Administration                3.28      5.85     27.47      7.50     40.70     10.89    35.91     32.55     10.80     13.25    188.20
Equipment2/                        0.00      0.00     14.95      6.75      5.50      8.05    20.87      0.32     20.00    100.10    176.54
FFWP                               0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     20.89     31.92     52.81
Technical Assistance3/            20.10     14.27     10.36      4.02      1.55     13.22      5.38    I 3.19     4.71      0.00     76.80
Total                             45.87     75.28    113.70     81.73    216.35    262.04    310.36    280.75    177.84    164.42   1728.34 >
Source: Project Management Unit (PMU)
1/ Excluding Perizpur-Hizalgachi and Madhapur sub-projects which were dropped from the implementation in 1989 (Tk3.13 million)
2/Estimated at about 80% of total costs of equipment procured during FY87-FY89 to exclude the costs of equipment procured for
the pilot O&M programme.
3/ Estimated at about two-thirds of the total costs of technical assistance duwing FY85-FY89 to exclude the costs of the
feasibility study, engineering designs of sub-projects not implemented under the project, and the preparation of O&M wark
plans for the pilot O&M programme.



-33-
Annex 1
Table 6
*   BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(CR. 1467-50)
Project Completion Report
Procurement of Equipment
Desaiplion                                   Unit   Strengthening BWDB  Pilot O&M program
SAR    Actual       SAR      Actual
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
- Concrete mixer                             no             40        40
- Air Compressors                            no              3
- Vibrating compactor                        no              8         6
- Dewatering pump. generator,compressor      no             15        10
- Concrete vibrator 1/                       no             80
- Jetting Pumps 1/                           no              4
- Well point system 1/                       no              4
- Generators 1/                              no              2
TRANSPORT EQUIPMENT
- Speedboat                                  no              6         4         17         3
- Outboard engine                            no              0         4         0          6
- Truck 2/                                   no              3
- Mlinibus 2/                                 no             2
- Car 2/                                      no             1
- 4 WO vehicle                                no            10         8         26        11
- Pick-up                                    no              8         5
- Motor cycle                                no             30        30         80        23
- Bicycle                                    no                                  60
OFFICE EQUIPMENT
- Photocopying macnine                       no                                   4         4
- Type writer                                no                                  I2        12
- Desion/otfice eauipment itern               no            47        63
TOTAL                                         no           263 i7C              .3 
Total actual as : cf total SAR                *.                      65                    30
1/ cancelled by BWDB, with approva! cl IDA
2! No procurement due to GoB's import restric:ions.






- 35 -
ANNEX 2
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
CONTENTS
A.   Agricultureal Impact
B.   Farm Incomes
C.   Economic Re-evaluation
TABLES: 1-28



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
A. AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
1.      At appraisal, the increase in agricultural production was quantified from about 91,125
ha of crop land, which were affected by flooding and inadequate drainage in the monsoon season
and lacked irrigation supplies in the dry season. The projected production levels were to be
achieved with existing irrigation equipment and without major changes in the availability of
extension advice. Project works were expected to create cropping conditions that would
encourage beneficiaries to adopt improved farming practices, including shifts from broadcasting
to transplanting paddy, use of high yielding varieties (HYV) instead of low yielding paddy
varieties, dry season cultivation, supplemental irrigation during wet season, and the increased
input use these changes would require. Without the project, only modest production gains were
to be expected, resulting from small yield increases due to extension efforts and farmers' own
initiatives over time to improve their cultivation practices.
2.     In flood control and drainage sub-projects, where some irrigation equipment was
already used, the main impact was to be the introduction of T. Aman (HYV), followed by some
expansion of T. Aus (HYV) and wheat cultivation. In irrigation sub-projects, farmers would be
able to start dry season cultivation of Boro and grow T. Aman with supplementary irrigation in
the monsoon season. Cropping intensities were expected to increase by 25 % from 138% at
present to 163% in flood control and drainage sub-projects, and by 33% from 133% to 166% in
irrigated sub-projects. Expected yield increases with the project would be moderate, not
exceeding 10% for all crops. Thus, the projected production increases were to result chiefly from
shifts in cropping patterns and higher cropping intensities.
3.      Estimates of present, without project (WOP) and with project (WP) crop production
for the entire project were extrapolations based on the assumption that the unappraised sub-
projects were, on average, to produce the same results as the four appraised sub-projects,
including Kangsha River Flood Control and Drainage (FCD), Kaloroa Drainage, Bighai River
Flood Control (FC) and Chenchuri Irrigation sub-projects.
4.       Based on the above benefited areas, cropping intensities and yields, annual incremental
production at full development (paddy, wheat, jute and oilseeds, etc.) was estimated at about
109,500 tons increasing froni 251,200 tons in WOP situation to about 360,700 tons in WP
situation.
5.      At project completion, cropping patterns, cropped areas and crop yields in WOP and
WP situations of the 5 sub-projects (Kangsha, Kaloroa, Bighai, Chenchuri and Halda Extension),
are based on limited data from the socio-economic bench mark surveys, crop data provided by
DAE and additional interviews with farmers within and outside these 5 sub-projects conducted
by the PCR mission in March 1994. In addition, because the Chenchuri and Halda Extension
sub-projects were then not yet in operation, the crop production WP was based on the agricultural
development trend of the Kanarfuri Irrigation sub-project financed under the Small Scale Flood
Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD) and interviews with farmers.



- 37 -
6.      The project has completed 17 sub-projects, covering 107,789 ha of net crop land
(Annex 1, Table 1) which is 18% higher than the appraisal estimates. The total areas benefiting
from the 15 FCD sub-projects increased by 27% from about 81,405 ha to about 103,652 ha.
However, due to the reduction of the irrigation sub-projects from the original 5 to 2 and the
substantially reduced service area in the Halda Extension sub-project, total areas benefiting from
the two irrigation sub-projects reduced by 57 % from 9,720 ha to about 4,137 ha (1,037 ha in the
Chenchuri Beel and 3,100 ha in the Halda Extension). The cropping intensities have increased
by 23%-36% from 146%-155% in WOP to 169%-191% in WP in the 3 FCD sub-projects, and
by 40% from 160% in WOP to 200% in the 2 irrigation sub-projects (Annex 2, 18-22). Overall
yields of paddy have increased by 10%-50%, ranging from 10%-15% in FCD to 30%-50% in
irrigation sub-projects (Annex 2, Tables 1-4).
7.      Based on the above benefited areas, cropping intensities and yields, annual incremental
production at full development (paddy, wheat, jute and oilseeds, etc.) is estimated at about
184,400 tons representing an increase from 760,600 tons in WOP situation to about 945,000 tons
in WP situation. The higher incremental food production is due mainly to the larger crop area
and higher incremental yields of paddy.
B. FARM INCOMES
8.      At appraisal, the impact of the project on farm incomes has been analyzed for two 3-
acre owner-operator farms, to reflect the impact of the flood control and drainage sub-projects
and irrigation sub-projects. Based on the assumed per ha financial crop budgets in WOP and WP
situations, cropping patterns and crop budgets in Annex 5.2, Tables 1-4 of the SAR, expressed
in FY'84 constant value, annual net farm income were estimated to increase by about 28% from
Tk 11,580 in WOP to Tk 14,830 in WP for the FCD sub-projects, and by 93% from Tk 7,830
to Tk 15,130 for the irrigation sub-projects. Re-stated in FY'94 constant prices, incremental
annual net farm incomes would have been Tk 5,850 and Tk 13,140 respectively.
9.      The effect of the project on farm incomes have been re-estimated for the two 3-acre
owner-operator farms. The per ha financial crop budgets in WOP and WP situations for the FCD
and irrigation sub-projects are shown in Annex 2, Tables 1-4 and the cropping patterns of 3-acre
farms in Annex 2, Tables 6-7. The irrigation costs in WOP and WP have been based on the
average irrigation costs of low lift pump and shallow tube well as shown in Annex 2, Tables 9-
10. Based on the above assumptions, annual net farm incomes at full development from 3-acre
owner-operator farms are re-estimated to increase by 35% from about Tk 22,850 in WOP to
Tk 30,850 in WP for the FCD sub-projects, and by 170% from Tk 21,000 to Tk 57,000 for the
irrigation sub-projects. The estimated incremental annual farm incomes of the two farms are
Tk 8,000-Tk 36,000, reflecting real increases of 37%-170% over the appraisal estimates.
C. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
10.     At appraisal, the economic rates of return (ERRs) undertaken in FY'84 constant prices
were estimated at 21 % -40% for 4 sub-projects (35 % for Kangsha FCD, 40% Kalaroa drainage,
26% for Bighai FC and 21% for Chenchuri irrigation) and 30% for the whole project. The
following assumptions were used in the analysis:
-    project life of 30 years, including a construction period of 2 years;



- 38 -
economic farm-gate prices of paddy, wheat, jute, oilseeds and fertilizers were
based on average projected 1985, 1990 and 1995 world market prices expressed
in FY'84 constant prices;
prices of non-traded goods and services were adjusted by a Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) of 0.83;
all project's investment costs, excluding the pilot decentralized O&M
programme, were included in the analysis;
the development of irrigated areas in FCD sub-projects has been assumed to be
achieved with existing irrigation equipment;
total net cultivated area of 91,125 ha for the whole project; and
extrapolations of the combined ERRs of the four appraised sub-projects were
used as a basis for the calculation of ERR of the whole project.
11.     The PCR re-evaluation of the project's ERRs follows the appraisal assumptions. The
main differences are:
the average construction period of 5 years within the project life of 30 years;
actual project costs by sub-projects have been restated in FY'94 constant prices,
using GDP deflator indices for local costs and MWV index for foreign exchange
component (Annex 2, Table 17) and adjusted into border prices by using SCF
0.83. Total investment costs of the project and sub-projects excluded the
rehabilitation costs of 26 completed schemes utilizing funds from the pilot
O&M programme, the costs of equipment procured for the pilot O&M
programme, and technical assistance for the preparation of feasibility studies and
designs of sub-projects not financed under the project and the O&M work plans
for four pilot division;
average FY'90-FY'95 projected world market prices of rice, wheat, oilseeds,
jute, sugar cane and fertilizers expressed in FY'94 constant value were used in
the analysis (Annex 2, Table 8). A summary of economic prices of outputs and
inputs is presented in Annex 2, Table 5;
per ha economic crop budgets in WOP and WP situations are presented i  n
Annex 2, Tables 13-14 for FCD sub-projects and Tables 15-16 for the inio6
sub-projects;
total net cultivated areas of 107,789 ha for the whole project; and
additional financial cost of Tk 44.6 million estimated by BWDB for completion
of the remaining works of Halda sub-project;



- 39 -
extrapolation of the combined ERRs of the 3 FCD sub-projects, the Chenchuri
and Halda Extension sub-projects were used as a basis for the calculation of
ERR of the whole project.
12.     On this basis, the ERRs are re-estimated at 17%-30% for 4 sub-projects (18% for
Chenchuri, 17% for Bighai, 19% for Kangsha and 30% for Kalaroa) and 25.2% for the whole
project Annex 2, Tables 23-26, 28. The lower ERRs are due mainly to substantially longer
implementation period resulting in delayed accrual of project benefits and lower prices of outputs
than anticipated at project appraisal. Due to higher investment and O&M costs and smaller
service area, the re-estimated ERR of the Halda Extension sub-project is 12% (Annex 2, Table
27).



- 40 -
EN EhIEfii 19  I~3                                                 Table 1
47! ii U l Ullafl=2!!i
I~~
j 1::32--:32s_-,2332!
i 1!I232SUiS:Y_:'
I  i  a~~~~~~~
Pa~.........
-                  IZt  *z; i3"
ig
- }              -   4 s
S1^       ai_.fel    i
i   5     sw----t
15*u22aa a!.i.a3RtlXS    i
II   __ :..  _.___        X
I   I i sfl!iIIII!SslSa



-44
1308VIIt01                                             11         01          It         Om1         06           *It0                                         I           13         1            I          3         1            3          WWV                     813                    13        443M'*
M t                             tI
ties       W II          II          30                      01         1          00          tl         II          160 tet  a I631,ot n                                                                                                                        kI00 I  1  6  60 11  Witl  6     0131        6Ito                  
on3       1Ks          II            Oml                    334         Jr         VP          4013       SW          OI                                 I          I    0            0          0                                                              All018 14   0011        *m         00113       6          11              4
lOll   331  101  1310          1ff        I           10         130    II              13~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                    I        0                   0   I            I           et        0                       13         1          ll                      111     
"s I                   W            Stu        et: It        "Mf        03         it          to"8       to*                                                                                                                  WICCC      Ct         6*         Cl          Om008       130        **3         I8           331
A00  II           03           11          31          11         0            0         013         L           I0                                            6           I                      4          1            3          3         18 I          l         1131       131         a33        16          W 
"an1       31           its         jIts        03a          33          3          0          Nit g  a   03          61         31           l "I6 I"1toI I30                                                     1 of  Ste  a33of                 0w110                               03630g10               1633,                      * AA
001        Kg8         Ni            ela3                   0           0I         et          4031       10          I.I        133        of 0         0          0           0           a          0           6          II          it         308        33                                  "H31 03NV38et 8I0 lI                 O0P*1
UK3        Ks3          "at          gm1                     tot        II         38          Kit         IC         O                                                                                a           900  1tot3  L  I 6OI  l 13  3to 0  1         13          31`1 1130              0111         I3         6s3 I         'i0 aJ
1138       3f          3at          tat                     INI         01          10         1311 III               11         Mt            6e60                                                    gm1         It         K11         t3         3Oa         St         01311       011         .1011      II         110 IC            "
0101*      a"3         13           Nit         w            let        of         14,         138        01          "III 3                11                     ,0          W                                                                                            I,03 8  3  003 1  11f 18   10      3           3               "3'II
111         4 la          3          Nto        030          13         II          It         1131       30          31                                                                               I 6                    a 0 10  0  31  8        8          to         t6wo1       "is         Coll       OR0         CT 
3138  181  133  0113  000  II     00         0331       03          331                                I           0          0           6          4~~,e       I1         ..          PI         AK1         1t            tot0     00          CM1        130o3
II          it           it         4i             II       Is         pd          Pd          43          P.        P-         SI          Og           40          OA6        I1          11          13        0A6           II        @0         II         SI           It       0-4n        41          -4,g        40n
8a040   R0             hIln         l44                      1131    11301          ,031       1344      lIPI)MA0
060"434 IP*W2 P34*61-001.0  *43I.l04lqI -d
P4tw 
la4.04    00v1 60001 WV
t,,,,,,qq.>-Xdz  svt"t  J _rt%Vr*ewP*zt 113_-000l1 4



C-"~~~~~~~~~~~~~
__A X4                                                           e "0  o         " .         )        -. 4   "-II _
I19        lie       tO          ItO 0;                  Ut        UsI Mq                Mo9        INW        0          MltIK      0          trSg     t It       .
o0n    m   _ Sn                    t0                       m          'n U      1m             t                                                               See                                          Ss                    n                                                          s I                n90    OK  59  j   01  O  n  IH"l
11W       00          991          094                    WIs        SI     t         tn(             9     1 t     l                               00         00         CC         II          00         K    l    900         61           l        09         0101       0           UIC        0          . .           t'U*0
nnIP      0t           1            110at      I0            I        90         I           nt Om                           *n 00                    t         "I                                                    SM t101                            MoO        000* Sa  t000 9e                             005 o9o0.
Ktt * t   * n tn*                              U 11        g          *"i *e   5e1 9s o5                                                             o          *          0   ;                 9   U*                 *it S o                 lt tl                     0 0                        9K         0i 9                  31 
0s9ll     094          Sell         WIct                    ml        9         it         Om         09         01                                 0m         to         Sol        Ci          101       a1          Mo         00         OIM         OM        006        5                                 a9t:91         M
I11       lO           090          K                      410                   K           WI        SI          U                                                       05         Cl         It          091                  00          US         K           101       0610U
Otis     9on           Ott         VIIS                    I09                   90         500        It1        500                                                      S. 0                   0          I          M           0         90          I         0W         00          10          9           I0
9list                   9           91         11          001        0           0         01          *         M tsStUtSwig09i,  IHI MMo                                                                                                   9*01       901        0009"at      1        1010 "5                aI               P.9
oca *                  I            is nf nu"              a          I         n          0l         t           s            l                                          . 0        Y          n           t          t          t                               otnt                  GUC nat *I            nl"
M                    11               r oil  Oml          00        oI         at          "a11      a0         ell        Mo         Ut 9S                                                     Om5       9            jI                   "to9       Ko         1 9        9          cello       Col        Ca
010  I        90           90         00          U          9          0           11        0           01        (I           10         0                      *1        It         LZ 0I1 au,                                   MO         I          @101       011        00161      Ma          MO            00--1A9
SOLO  (00  090      KU         009          000        31         00~         464:      (0         It1        100         610         0          9          1(          1         93         5            1         9          le         9          Kl          1          00          1           IOVA
tit    t         09           000O,                                          KN0001               K          101                               0                                0           9GO                                         09           l          909       905        09          1         110f
SO00      IO           0          09         0             0          I          0         00         9          01          0         099                                 9         00         014        00         313        00         MO          K09I
1 10 1 0 09 1 I 9 I  0 10  0  9                         I9m 101                                                           IS.lOS  S0   01       
09'        09          10           O  m0                  51          1         000K                              06                                           0 00 K                                      SI14l9ItI                                    09  6.9                10        49090      SI1 0- 0
ml          c          to           c             ii      iie         P4        P4          KII         9       000                                  II         00         C           51         CI         So         ci         6914                  S See  It                        .tVI       *'I         Se I00A
It"091    ldot         11*          tol         on           .4       11041       0*          fill                                        Deto110Is'I00  1"i09iz:                                                                                                                                                                   - '
09*j   11044  .090       100                               P"         P"           it                                                                                                                                                                                  I0't00.p.,             I-oIl 1,t
l qi                                                    -o   u . t                         "  0 1P                           S.4*              09  I                                         .0 1                  0                    l0   .S                        I v      m   n      .   "w
104W   -4-161 01001   A
1140w 0spg. 9



Ii
2KI ~ ~ ~ ~         ~           ~           ~          ~          ~           ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ^ 4tt:l* Att*- _1*    :lv  gal  It,"n to-- lo    "
I8,1n   mO _ 'It                  Kit                                                                                                                                                                       A     46  e t9K           * M  c         1          n        un : 04 tP 9                          49u4qu lilA
Of ufn                lufn                              sol       of                                          SO  1108                                                                    IS gu  tI  I                                "l                  K IN  N  m  #1  mt    out1       0          IL t              ' 8
tme       I"                      "a                       u t                           a"ot       n          "          ml                                6                    S            I        8                                           I                   e                                II tI 8.    tS  9t  @8  0  III *  d,
- "                                                               So         "a    So                                                                     S.                  ""   e                 "I tot                a4n    oi            Oti   "to    UN,   U' u   .t|t
III.  681   III   6881   Nt   ii   68   wet  g   mu                              Ut         @18       881        Ii         818        68         sit        w         m          t*         Oguu       0          66981      6         OiL           *...q.OA
luau  mu   mu      sic,.                   m~~      ~~~~~us  ii   p        m                               IN         owl         ON         868        OK8       go         we8        68         N         H           tN        68G8W                              88                  864
*  6  *  0                      9          *         0          4         ~~         ~~~~                                        ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~*I  8      . .    .                                           . 0  S                "Ile   *             .          .l    wo
pu        1.0 .m     ec          Itu                    gu         e          68         ut         I IIC83 onuIea                                                                                               we         Is         nu                   @96                     91                 66*P
CS"       tic         sit         OM1                    Om8        I          8         lt         I                                                      6          8          u                     I         WI         86-,  I0I   N         681.81               0"          *Ms8                 co~t
ueu       e.          L           unm                                t        g          sn         n           .         cu         w                                                     lIn         a         lit        61         118        uu         St=        lNit       *Wu8       @98       CS
1181  891  IN  IN  @911  86  68           LC      U          mu                                *         *          U          et         mu         au        mu         u           mu        wi         Hug        Nil       81181       mu        mu~~~~~~~11w  u  K  c  CN  O"  ami Os    II  tA
muao      tit         WI          Ii.                    s           u         It         Ie                                                                amIl 16  8  6 r  Int  a         a"t       @9         r          of         OK         at        Halt        We         miez      Ut         WI*8g
me  M                      fill       4,                                           nt        ts                                                    ta         ft                                          au         "or                                    -V'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a"ltt 
am dute     uet        flat                   eef        ii         I'8        Gas6    Iit          pu         rn         U.          8         *          6          6          0          *         10' So                818        68 6111.8             61M          ILl t              lit             *6-*1
118       888         Iii         RH89                             RI%  1  I P  IP        iAs                  P.mC      SI         at          *I                              8             1        oil       II1        68         LIt                   it81      -4111      WIll       HI4        at"n      ~      V
Salt        W-        k18           8l8                  A I        I 0*       68i        i4Ou      68  * IO                                     0                                                                                       SiHP&8                          91       INi        81         II         '4
88  P88          I            uf                     n         g                      .egW,4l                                    ll         m           u        @8        18         u                       t        U          W          68        @9818  I UZ           618        68         68        ~A
Ii   II        II         I~~~~"i    -M.&       U          WPd    -w             U         H          H         A          I            U           I         I        01          88       1 6-"-Oq                           Ii        S          U         HI1         W           H          1
688it   hal)   t~~~~   AHId  APIL  IIHA   @991  LIPId  @POW911P"  W
WAS    i*6   .111   P~~~~~~4                                                                                                                                                                 enj       1li1,q~~~~~ p.,..         I.N,u.u,oM'Vw



-44 -
Annex 2
Table 5
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(Cr. 1467-BD)
Project Completion Report
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
Unit             Financial   Economic1/2/
A. Outputs:                          TWlkg            (FY94)
Paddy-Aus                            Tk/kg                6.1        7.3
Paddy-Aman                           Tk/g                  6.5       7.8
Paddy-Boro                           Tk/kg                6.2        7.4
Wheat                                Tk/kg                 6.4       8.9
Jute                                 Tk/kg                 8.1      11.2
Oilseeds                             Tklkg               14.2       15.4
Pulse                                Tklkg                15.7      13.0
Sugarcane                            Tklkg                 1.1       1.4
Poato                                Tk/kg                 4.6       3.8
Sweet Potato                         TIVkg                 5.0       4.2
Vegetables                           Tk/kg                 2.8       2.3
Spices (fresh chilli)                Tk/kg                14.0      11.6
B. Inputs:
Seeds
Paddy-LV                             Tk/kg                10.5      12.6
Paddy-HYV                            Tk/kg                10.0      12.0
Wheat                                TkJkg                12.0      16.7
Jute                                 Tk/kg                24.0      19.9
Oilseeds                             Tk/kg                19.4      21.0
Pulse                                TWkg                 25.4      21.1
Sugarcane                            cuttings/kg           1.0      0.83
Potato                               Tk/kg                 8.5       7.1
Sweet Potato                         TiSkg                 5.0       4.0
Vegetables                           Tk/kg                400        332
Spices                               TiSkg                600        498
Fertilizers:
Urea                                 Tklkg                 5.3       6.9
TSP                                  TkJkg                 8.4       9.5
MP                                   TkJkg                 8.2       8.0
Pesticides                           Tlikg               504.0     655.2
Manure                               TiSkg         -       1.0       0.8
Draft animal                         Tk/pd                45.0      45.0
Unsidiled Labour                     Tk/md                40.0      33.2
(1) Average 1990-1995 prices in FY94 constant value.
(1) Non-traded commodities were adjusted by SCF of 0.83.



- 45 -
Annex 2
Table 6
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes project
(Cr. 1467-BD)
Project Completion Report
Cropping Pattem of 3 Acre Farm-Flood Control and Drainage
WOP                  WP
Cereals:
Local S. aus                0.50                 0.43
Local T. Aus                0.23                 0.32
HW Aus                      0.18                 0.21
Deepwster aman              0.11                 0.10
Local T. Aman               1.48                 1.18
HYV T. Aman                 0.39                 1.04
Local Soro                  0.08                 0.08
HYV Boro                    0.83                 0.99
Subtotal Rice              3.79                 4.36
Wheat                       0.04                 0.14
Total Cerehas              3.83                 4.50
Other Cmps:
Jjte                        0.17                 0.16
Pulses                      0.36                 0.48
Oi seeds                    0.07                 0.13
Sweet Poato                 0.01                 0.01
Potato                      0.01                 0.02
Vegetables                  0.04                 0.05
Spices                      0.02                 0.05
Othr                        0.01                 0.01
Total Other Crops          0.68                 0.90
Total Cropped Area          4.52                 5.40
Net Cuttvated Area          3.00                 3.00
Crop Intesifty              1.51                 1.80
Net Farm lcome(rk)         22850               30850
Family LaboLr(md)            161                 190
ReturntoLaboLir(nlcmd)       142                 162



- 46 -
Annex 2
Table 7.1
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(Cr. 1467-BD)
Project Completion Report
Cropping Pattem of 3 Acre Farm-Irrigation Sub-project
(Chenchuri)
WOP       WP
Cereals:
LocalB. aus                1.32      0.12
Local T. Aus               0.00      0.00
HYV Aus                    0.00      0.06
Mix aus and aman           0.06      0.09
Local T. Aman              1.23      0.84
HtYVT. Aman                1.05      1.78
LV Boro                       0        0
HYV Boro                   0.00      2.33
Subtotal Rice             3.66     5.22
Wheat                      0.12      0.08
Total Cerelas             3.78      5.30
Other Crops:
Jute                       0.24      0.16
Pulses                     0.21      0.08
Oilseeds                   0.17      0.11
Sweet Poato                0.00      0.00
Potato                     0.00      0.01
Vegetables                 0.14      0.18
Spices                     0.13      0.13
Other                      0.17      0.12
Total Other Crops         1.06      0.79
Total Cropped Area         4.84      6.09
Net Cultivated Area        3.00      3.00
Crop Intensity             1.61      2.03
Net Farm Income(Tk)      20627    56426



- 47 -
Annex 2
Table 7.2
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(Cr. 1467-BD)
Project Completion Report
Cropping Pattern of 3 Acre Farm-irrigation Sub-project
(Halda)
WOP       WP
Cereals:
Local B. aus               0.74     0.00
LocalT. Aus                0.09     0.14
HYV Aus                    0.04     0.76
Mix aus and aman          0.00      0.00
Local T. Aman             1.68      0.90
HYVT. Aman                0.42      2.10
LV Boro                    1.18        0
HYV Boro                  0.13      1.80
Subtotal Rice            4.28      5.70
Wheat                      0.00     0.00
Total Cerelas            4.28      5.70
Other Crops:
Jute                       0.00     0.00
Pulses                     0.27     0.08
Oilseecls                  0.07     0.12
Sweet Poato                0.00     0.00
Potato                     0.00     0.03
Vegetables                 0.11     0.14
Spices                     0.00     0.02
Other                      0.00     0.01
Total Other Crops        0.45      0.40
Total Cropped Area         4.73     6.10
Net Cultivated Area       3.00      3.00
Crop Intensity             1.58     2.03
Net Farm Income(Tk)      21279    57596



- 48 -
Annex 2
Table 8
BANGLADESH
BWD9 Small Scherrs Project
CCR 1457-80)
Project CompletOn Rep,rt
'Economic Price Dervation
Rice/Paddy    Wheat    Sugar Soybeans         Jute      L!rea     TSP       MP
M         M         M         M         X         X         M         M
Word Price:FY90-95(USSItQ11                   298       174       267       264        400       153       135       109
Warld Price:FY30-95(Tklv)2/                 11920      6960     10680      10560     16000      6120      5400      4360
AdjustmrntFactorp%)3/                         0.90      1.10      1.23      1.30      1.00      1.40       1.40     1.40
Adjusted FOB/CF Prices                      10728      7656     13083     13728      16000      8568      7560      6104
Handling/Transport charges
(Pats-wholesale markets)                     1800      1800      1800      1800       1800      1800      1800      1600
Market Prices                               12528      9456     14883     15528      14200      6768      9360      7904
Processing costs                              320         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Processing ratio                              0.65      0.95      0.10      1.00      0.80      1.00       1.00      1.00
Price of Paddy equivalent                    7935      8983      1488      15528     11360      6768      9360      7904
Handling&Transpoat charges
(Farm and markets)                            120       120       120        120       120       120       120       120
Farmgate prirce(Kt)                          7815      8863      1368      15406     11240      6888      9480      8024
Fermgate price(TK/kg)                          7.8       8.9       1.4      15.4      11.2       6.9        9.5      8.0
M-Import X-Export
1/ World Bank(s Commodity Price Forecasts, March 1994. Average 90-95 prices adjusted to FY94 constarrtvalue.
Rice: Thai, milled, 5% brcJ<en. FOB Bangkok; Wheat: Canadian No.1 Westem Redspring, Thunder Bay; Soybeans:
US. CIF, Rottrdam. Soybeons and mustard/linseed are assumed to be equal value; Sugar. FOB and stowed at greater Carribbean Port
Jute: white 0, Bangladesh, FOB Chalna; Urea: FOB Chitmgong/Chalna: TSP: FOB US Gutf: MP: FOB US Gulf.
2USS1 .0-Tk40.0
3/Based on relationhip between imporlexpcrt value and prices of reference qualrty.



- 49 -
Annex 2
Table 9
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(Cr. 1467- SD)
Project Completion Report
lrvestmert and Operating Cost or 2-CLsec LLP
Boro Rlce   Wheat    T. Aus      Total
Irrigation voter requirement(nches/acretyear)  42        15        10
Operating Time(hours)                          21        7.5        5
Present IrrlgaUon Per Pumnp
Irrigated Area(Acre)                         20.8        3         0
Operating Time (houlyear)                     437        23         0       460
FLtLure Irrigation per Punp
Irrigated Area(Are)                            30        13       6.0
Operating Time (hourJy                        630        98        43       771
lrwestmert CostseCi:                    Costs    Life(year)  CRF(l 7.6%)  Annully
Engine                                      50000        10     0.219     10950
PLmnp. pipes&fittings                       27000        10     0.219      5913
Subtotal(FinanclaQ                          77000                         16863
Subtotal(Economic)                          72410
Operating Costs(rM:                                   WOP       WP
(460hTs)  (M  hTS)
Fuel.0.625 gallorVho.r
@i Tk 0o0/gallon.                                     28750     48190
LubrIcants, 2.6% of luel
t Tk 1 so/gailon.                                      1290      2170
Wages for operator                                     5520      9250
Repalrimalntenance                                     4695      7870
Aimdty                                                16860     16860
Subtotal                                              57115     84340
Cost per HoLr (Tk)                                     124.2     109.4
irligation Cost per Acre(fTk)                          Boro      Wheat   T. Aus
Firuncial:
WOP                                                    2610        950
WP                                                     2300        825       780
Econorric:
WOP                                                    1780        650
WP                                                     1780        640       610



- 50 -
Annex 2
Table 10
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Projects
(Cr. 1467-BD)
Project Completion Repcrt
Iruestmert and OperaUng Cost of 0.6- Cusec STW
Boro Rice   Wheat    T. Aus                Total
Irrigation water requkementlonches/acretyear)  42        15        10
Operating Time(hou's)                          84        30        20
Present Irrigation Per Pump
Irrigated Area(Acre)                         4.0         7         0
Operating Tlime (hourlyear)                  336        210         0                 546
F,Lutre Irrigation per Purp
Irrigated Area(Acre)                           9         3        5.5
Operating Time (hoir/y                       756        90         55                 901
Inreestmert Costs(rk):                  Costs    Life(year)  CRF(1 7.6%)   Annulty
Engine                                     19000         7      0.259      4921
Pnmp, plpes&fittings                       30000         10     0.219      6570
Installatlon                                5000         10     0.219      1095
Subtotal(Flnanclai)                        54000                          12586
Subtotal(Economic)                         48000
Operatllng Costs(TO:                                 WOP       WP
(546tTs)   (901 t'rs)
Fuel,0.2 gallonrhoLr
@ Tl 00/gallon.                                      10920      18020
LLbricants, 2.5% of luel
@ TK 1 8O/gallort                                       490       810
Wages for operator                                     6500     10810
Repalrftnaintenarce                                    1710      2820
Armuity                                               12600     12600
Subtotal                                              32220     45060
Cost per HoLE (lk)                                      59.0      50.0
Irrigation Cost per Acre(TI)                           BSro      Wheat   T. Aus
Flronclal:
WOP                                                    4960      1770
WP                                                     4200      1500        500
EconorTic:
WOP                                                    2830       1010
Wp                                                     2830       1010       340



- 51 -
Annex 2
Table 11
BANGLADESH
EWDS Small Scheme Project
(CR 1467-1--BD)
Project Completion Report
Investment and O&M Costs of the Hadda Extension Irrigation Sub-project
Description:
-capacity per pup                                                     6408 m3/hour
-head per pump                                                        9.4 m
-capacity of ransformer per station                                   1.270 KW
-rated power per pump                                                 270 KW
-power consumptionipump                                               225 KW
-shaft power/pump                                                     191 KW
-motor effciency                                                      86%
-number of pumps                                                      6(2 standby)
- minimum number of operators required                                8
-minimum number of guards required                                    16
-Gross Irrigation requirements                                        55.5 million m3/year
(3.100 ha)11                                                         average,31Ificiency
-average GIR                                                          17908 m3tha/year
-potentil irrigab4e area                                             3,100 ha
-pump hours-average Gift/capacity                                     5.6 hour/ha /year
-energy requirement(pump hours)                                       1.260 kwhl ha/year
-Investment cost(FY94 constant)                                       FinancialmKM)        Economic(Tk M)
-civil works catual costs)                                                 306.1               256.7
-civil works (completion costs)I/                                           44.6                38.9
-pumping equpment (actual costs)                                           100.1                96.7
Total                                                                      450.8               392.3
-unit cost                                                            145.419(rk/ha)       126.548(rk/ha)
-Annual O&M costs (3.100 ha):
-2% of civil works                                                           7.0                  5.9
-3% of pumping equipment                                                     3.0                  2.9
-electricity costs2/                                                         9.6                  7.9
-fixed charges(l2x1Z70 kw installed)3/                                       0.9                  0.0
-standing charges4/                                                          0.1                  0.0
-wages                                                                       0.6                  0.5
Total                                                                       21.2                17.2
-unit cst(Tkibalyear)                                                       6839                5548
11 Estimated by SWDB. Chittagong.
2VTk2.451kwh.
3/Fixed charges-Tk3O/KW insalled/month.
4/ Standing charges-Tk90/KW installed/month.



- 52 -
Annex 2
Table 12
BANGLADESH
BWDB SmSl Schemes F Project
(CR 1467-l-BD)
Projeat Corrompletion R Report
Investment and O&M Costs of the Chenchul Tigation Sub-project
Descripton:
-caracfty pa- pump                                                              1260 m3thour
-head per pump                                                                  8m
-capacity of transformer per station                                            150KW
-rated power per pump                                                           150 KW
-power consumption/pump                                                         60 KW
-shaftpower/pump                                                                50 KW
-number of pumps                                                                4
-minimum number of operators required                                           8
-minimum number of gaards required                                              0
- average GIR                                                                   179C8 m3fhalyear
-poreTtial irrigable area                                                         ,037 ha
-pump hoLrs-average GlRlcapacity                                                14.2 hour/ hayear
-energy requirement(pump hou-s)                                                 71  kwhtha lyear
- Investment cost(FY94 constanri                                                Financial(         Economic(Tk g)
-civil works                                                                          74.0                61.7
-pumping equipoment                                                                   26.4                25.6
Totl                                                                                 100.4                87.3
-unitcost(Tk/ha)                                                                    96820                $418S
-unit cost(4D0 ha)
-Annual O&M costs
-2% of civil works                                                                     1.5                 1.3
-3% of pumping equipment                                                               0.8                 0.8
-eleclcitry costs2                                                                     1.8                  1.5
-faced chargesWc1,270 kw insalled)'t                                                   0.1                  0.0
-sanding charges4/                                                                     0.0                 0.0
-wages                                                                                 0.6                  0.5
Toul                                                                                   4.8                 4.1
-unit cost(Tkta/year)                                                                4630                 3950
1/ Feasibilty study estimates.
21 TrK4AS(wh.
3/Fixed cherges-Tk3O/KW installed/month.
4/ Standing charges-7<90KW insmlled/manth.



- 53 -
Annex 2
s ,E5 33;3a3;-!;2 ~ 9Table 13
iE----------------
.    ,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.
. .o . ._. . . .o . . . . ._ ...
...__..___..._.
44
IT      ...............s -s-
. ..............
-    - - - - - - - -   - - - - - -
,    -_  :  _   ------
'2 '_2'''g
5;;
-s.S
o      B  -  :-.-:I::_
{.~~~ - - :::



- 54 -
-4X:|-.3"2,S%@2-;-.%a,-,Annex2~
:1tU9t,=s2t                                                                             Table 14
: j3
*                        - 
i  --~-o--_
_      ,'3 -!$          -!
3~~~3
_        
_ _5
U-. 
_ _       _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
*                    '.
*af      ; _: w      S  '- , 
-_ -@   ---.4.,-
_ ~  ~~~~~ *          *         
1- _g_8^*__*vvX_*0



6AN6CLADO ICC
,VMS #..6  M4...o. 96*44
ICR. 1442.803
"'I I C..bC, A4Pt
VIII KAoI  P..d.,.6 4.04.616.1  1.6.6         6*1~~s.d4                  to.                  104                      WV                                                                     US6d.  .b               A.l..1    kA,id..0- It           6.
Con,         I4041  02.4 Coo
Lkb,        mi..         SA.W       IMb..        13           be         lb          be          Tb          go         Tk          Kg          lb           go         lb            No           kg        od          lk           p4         lb      lb              lb          lb           lb
I. A...        6.16~    ~ ~ :A66      1)44        III0       I103          ISO        1330          II        124           Is         is           K           K           K           K                                 60         4646          44       2614                     6113           off       of"4
1. A-                 I.1        .21       I Iota4      1144       41664          34         lUg          34         la4          to        114           C          14           K           C          0.4           a        14)        4144          44        161K          4K         soft          $0        fill
11113A..             LOU8        3.01      21441        14642     I3*0            30         IN           Il        364          32         304          to         I6            C     4          6     .20        164         CM         6442          CO        INS           476        6)41         CM0       1*324
MC.A..AA-.o          I.1         S.4       3*2          16          60           SC         1C                                                                                    K           4                                 I          2366          34        1114                    0306          630        669I
iLVl. A-.            ,lK         LO         140416       64        11614          340   44 14H            46         26           g         24             6        I                         C         6.11         SIC         43        41 st44                 16o4          420        IN            440          R
"VW T. A:...         2.           to4      03540        hOl        04*46          30          0           44        *1            33        314          26         U6            6                      .4         46           131       4614                    163           426        S4le          064       4144
i...l  S.*           02          4.1        123         3          26412          36         441          26         CU            C           0           4           K          4                      .4          33           4         643 I441                            1430M                     440        0216
OTI S..              36          316       36404        262        26.71          S1         4K           14         4193        4          S26           K           4g          g           K         1.62       CMI0"        43         01114         4I'll *3                           2466"        1354      12246
Vvh..I               I t0        1.60       tol          046       11616         164        1736          I421                    4          10            6         6                        6                                  160       SNC           21S66                              19646         1S443
Ad.4                 6.10        3.46      I6040        loss       16061          CI         34           4           6            0        43            4           K           C           6         42           6           0          73           36        CI.                      SII           66        10436
1.4.4.    6.32           6       4*~~~~~~~~00334  6      6034          34           R          1)4        I CM         66          CI          :4CO                    K                                               C        24             3K       CM                       5333M                     CI
064..d.  4.26      6       40700           K      14166~~~~~~~~~sla  S      Il           26         INR          12         SI 6                    K                                                            1         67*                     10S1144                                          44
V.b4.       .64          K       134                      41.4S42                               4         64           31         33           I           6          6           7                                     S        6383                     10OS44                                          63
0o'.                34.26           6      264860           0      3IN          & 4   160C  04  40       ICS         164          02         6641        44         3&4*          4           6                                  a6l       1354          6s        16Sul13   4                            63131     1*303
it A-2.4. Y.64,. 0-6It.
LA



totil  CT  oft I  2"9  11  119,  LOT                0           11         It"c         P,            I                                            011,        901         11",                   1:1" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SO-l 1111 L"'I4Pp'i4L
tILL                     IIC:SLO                 IS          S           051         LI                                                           I           OI O1 I.,lL                                   IS          lISt        101         1Oll?                  I"II,                    LT         ~        *S
SOI       LOU          LII.I t                                          51          O                                    LL         OL          '                       I          0            I          S           NO         I            51                      IL                     O
*          I                                     I .                     IKI                                             S           I           5-- I  PLC0 tIt                                                          I  5  0   5                         I S                              S*              I.I5
lilt4        tOt        PSt:                      IS          I            00          1I                                             I           011         05          OI         IC           KS        'll         "I,          I           100                     SLg0mI                                    PlS
0055  LOS   LOIS                     OILS~~~~~~~~~~~~~09  0  tilIl      IS                                   It          IO          to          II         I                                               .S.S.IIL      ..       GOS         I            00                     L@I
I.,1              . L   IO                 :IlS        IT          SIlL        I0 I                                                         S          I            I          IS          PCS I       L          ll           I           Ol          I           SL         r            ISI
IN.         Il          Sll                      OS         i            51          I           0           l           NO          010       5P0          It          OI          P It        S,I         IL          090        PI          SI'llS:      55        NILL0        lS@5I     AS
og~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -2 *n *1 0*W    -1r- 1sI
civil       $110I       It$                      *"t         *Xt                                                                      NoS 1g  *     s        :           n  1                               t1          el            t     1*                              t      *w                             t.
5000  ILL         1100                     109~~ ~~1   O           tIPOP                  OL           II          I                       I          I                       01          055         001         lIt       P00                                                          Its LI  50  II00  
101,01      500          IOIS                     S           clflIt      IILS       U           ill        OIl          I           I           0           00          PI         Ioft                    Is'  Ut                I           00610       0010f      10100        asI        01             0    1l
LOlL  501  0091  1011  It      OttO        ILl        I           III          I           I           It          I           ItS        05          OIl         SO         ISO          00         00000       tOIL        00045       Ill         ItO           "000  LAO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99  n POs  ' A I
10M         K            OI'S                      IS         L          SIO         U     I                                         IITI I'lI I                                                I           I           IlLS11     I'Sl         01011      'IN.,       SILtS1      III:        or          o v1
lots         il         I 1                       I'S         1           Sl                                                                                                                                I1 0s   n               10          010          I      110            I           510              *SWAUs
00           9          00119                     till       of           St         00W         U            0                        1                      I          P10        PI            O         I           Ul          I*         t1o11       0000        0511        Lt I                          l
011         L          fS                        et?ll      to          fill         9 1                   0                          I         IOl        I:                      II f  *      001        IS          oft         of          01011       IlLS        rol       It          II
II.!10:*tg                                                  o               V       "                                               0           0           0           :o           11        3            1          1. 0155  tl4ol50I                  t53till    IiOI              III.    l
*wL                     XL c                     su         pd           OIL        PW l  15115014all0plI N                                                              ti pIId I0  d   e  l                                                  4l 41  a"              -v l *11 
-3  11    SO.*~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0ILO  ~
1491  II-OvIlm  I-M  -q,l                      P -,PC                      Al                     4SI,                     41                    'P.'s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II 0Y~ST
*ns   W  TlCG  stTl  Tt  ele ttl nT 2 @ @   e e *11 lT  leT XsT @tzz e fs *"g1'"1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,  W1,15-4                                                                 I-S-4  -3-p-    -
1oT01   n   t  oG  *  lss al "   *l  "  *  oa X stz w nP XtG eD ous WowG *ls sw ve *"rY's^AIII.-Oz  -09-h-
sots   toT   t   os  sSl   1F  tew  s1   *   o  @  @  w  t nl I nl t1t t *tttg tttg @"1 *|t tg wnWY'sA1~~~~~~1-9ti 'Vo
tt4t  ttw   t   ll   @   tts   tOl                            g           g           @           @          @           *           *           @           etgl        001         t"l        lttl       ttl         t l         FG l        *Y1s"Y n~~-4-S 11-1



BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(Cr. 1467-BD)
Project Completion Report
Actual Project Costs (rk Million)
Current Costs:1/                 FY85      FY86       FY87      FY88       FY89      FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93       FY94      Total
TotalProject                        45.87     75.28     113.70     81.73    216.35    262.04    310.36    280.75    177.84    164.42   1728.34
Kangsha FCD                         11.46     11.94      20.98     12.19      15.38      9.62     17.72       2.32      5.77      11.67    119.05
Kalaroa Dralnage                     6.86     18.76      11.30      1.79      2.96       2.11      3.73       2.72      3.38      6.71      60.32
Btghal FC                           10.83     24.08      11.45      2.40       3.96      2.03      3.73       2.32      5.11       8.67     74.58
Chenchurl Irrtgatton                 1.70       1.35      3.25       1.16      3.04      6.66      7.99      29.25     23.86      12.67     90.93
Hatda Extension Irug.                1.40       1.30      3.28      4.40      28.42     28.40     45.57      94.38     56.26    112.77    376.18
FY94 Constant Prices:2/
Total Project                       80.04     119.88    162.59    108.09    269.90    313.14    342.17    299.p0    184.06    164.42   2043.29
Kangsha FCD                         20.00     19.01      30.00     16.12      19.19     11.50     19.54       2.47      5.97      11.67    155.47
Kalaroa Drainage                    11.97     29.88      16.16      2.37      3.69       2.52      4.11       2.90      3.50      6.71      83.80    LA
Bighal FC                           18.90     38.35      16.37      3.17       4.94      2.43      4.11       2.47      5.29       8.67    104.70
Chanchuri Irrigation                 2.97      2.15       4.65      1.53       3.79      7.96      8.81      31.15      24.7      12.67    100.37
Halda Extension Irdg.                2.44      2.07       4.69      5.82     35.45      33.94     50.24     100.51     58.23    112.77    406.17
Economic Costs:3/
Total Project                       69.64     104.30    141.45     94.04    234.81    272.43    297.69    260.13    160.14    143.05   1777.67
Kangsha FCD                         17.40     16.54      26.10     14.03      16.69     10.00     17.00       2.15      5.20      10.15    135.26
Kalaroa Dralnage                    10.41     25.99      14.06      2.06       3.21      2.19      3.58       2.52      3.04       5.84     72.91
Blghal FC                           16.44     33.36      14.24      2.76       4.30      2.11      3.58       2.15      4.60       7.54     91.09
Chenchuri Irrigation                 2.58       1.87      4.04       1.33      3.30      6.92      7.66      27.10     21.48      11.02     87.33
Haida Extenslon Irng.                2.13       1.80      4.08      5.06      30.84     29.53     43.71      87.45     50.66      98.11    353.37
Source: Project Management Unit (PMU)
1/ Annex 1, Table 5.1. Costs of sub-projects included the estilmated costs of the constructilon equlpment, costs of feasibility sludy,
enginnering design, monitorlng of construction and overhead costs prorated from Iho total costs ol 17 sub-prolocis and the costs of FFWP.
2/ Assuming 75% local costs adjusted by GNP dellators and 25% forelgn exchange costs adjusted by MUV Index.
3/ Assuming 75% local costs adjuslad by SCF of 0.83 and 25% forelgn exchange costs adjusted by CF of 1.0.
CD1



- 58 -
Annex 2
Table 18
BanQaCesh
_w__  Smait Schemes Protct
(Cr. 1467-53)
Copped rea--Kangsna ae)
WimtoutPre a                                      wt  Pmr
FY92     FY93       FY94      FY96      FY96      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY9S       FY96
Khtf I
LoW S. AU5                 2025      1789       1989      1934      1904      1894      1809      1774       1614      1540
L0al T. Aus                  180       176       187      181        181       150       139       173        163       152
HYVWAu5                    1110       987       1080      1059      1042       825       793       822       746       693
0eepewr Amen                467       510       487        488       495       456       402       443       421       402
MfiC Aus enC Arnan
JAC                         159       145        151       152       149       142       159       127       149       161
Vegeawles                    31        29         31        30        30        41        41        37        39         39
Lrai T. Aman               4142      3987       4265      4131      4128      4322      4378      4105      3976      3845
NV T. Aman                 2179      1659      2087      1975       1907      2348      2366      2689      2797      2971
Loal r or                    589      495        480       521       499       510       531       534       534       534
HYVaoru                    4504      4704      4304      4504       4504      5015      4709      5145      5348      5488
wiheatIf                     137      113        189       146       149       276       317       288       294       310
Pt9ses                        65       59         53        59        57        34        46        43         48        56
odseecs                      98        78         85        87        83       173       194       213       223       249
Swec Poato
Poatc                         14        19        27        20        22       2         24        28        32         53
vege=fles                     68        91        83        81        85        76        87        91         95       105
SpFces                        10         9        10        10        10        35        35        37         39        47
Omer
Taal Cropped Ara           15778    14850      15506     15378     15245     16319     16030     16499      16518     16645
Net CutNa= Area             9828     9828       9828      9828      9828      9828      9828      9628       982S      9628
Crop Intensity              1.61      1.51      1.58      1.56       1.55      1.66      1.63      1.68      1.68      1.69
1/ Wheat comprss onry t-V since local vnety aJmoS 0lsapeareCl.



- 59 -
Annex 2
Table 19
agiighdsh
wE Sdmal Scl.s  prq*c
(Cr. 1467-8;
OCppeld Aim ghi (to)
Athaut Project                                     WeSh Proieet i/
FY92      FY93      FY94      FY9s       FY96                 FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY9s
KhsN I
Locel a aus
Local T. Au%                1394      1130      1317       1315      1340                 19t2      1775       1745      1736       171C
HYVAus                        39        95        117        97       102                   so       223        310       320        332
S. Aman
Uemu,s and aown
JUI                            4         2          2         3          2                   3          3         3         6          7
Vsogetahla,                   21         14        26        24        20                   29         21        28        27         26
Local T. Am4n               3756      382       3510       3e25      3797                 4074      2917       2593      2200       1717
NYVT. Amon                   212        159       530       234       255                  226      13ee       1709      21C2       25s6
Loc lSoro                                16                  17         21                   1          1         1          1         1
MYV Soro                                                      3          3                   9         12        1s         17        20
Wheat
Pusvs                       1002       1351      1386      1221       1379                1400      2155       2285      2310       2320
Or,eds                         5         4          a         4         4                    6         1s       5s         as        140
S-wt Poezo                    74         5I        57        55        5S                    9         43        46        5o         52
Poulo                          7          7         9        1i        10                   01         60        56        60         s0
Vagetables                    se         65        72        46         55                  57         55        7s         67        99
Sp.ms (chit)                  49         61        65        46         54                  so         90      1u8         1S6       210
Other (Waw rIr)                9          5         5        1s         16                   a          a         6          6         e
Totl Cropped Ana            662       6807       7131      68        7117                 6006.      6637      9074      alo       9295
Nat Culti dA,a             4A56       4658          e 6    465       4858                 45        4e 4e5s 45           4          465
Cro InSosity                 1.37      1.42      1.47       1.43      1.47                 165       1.82       1-e7      1.89      1.91
Noe.: In Ye3 h8. ..a--s domagad by focding.



OW0O S.4a schemes Pr4sci
(CI. 1407-.O(
CeoppedAim-Ihioa (ha)
WlhoutlPaolecl                                                                                                       Wtth PIo.et
FY88       FY89        FY90        FYDI          FYs2        FY93       FY94        FY95        FY08                FY88        FYs0       FY90        FY01          FY92        FY93        FY94        FYs5       FY08
Khiidt I
Loal b. Aus                     1539        15D7        1507      1I87         148         1503       1409        1487        1458                   150t       1287        180         1521       1487        1420        1415       140t        13So
LocalT. Au                        38          t0          41         37          28          35         43          38          34                   1t12        140         137         151         140        183        2t8         30'         311
IYv Au%                           00          92         a5         101          78          74         88          85         82                     102        137         175        243         277         35         38t         371         370
DeopologAman                     228        234         233         227         t9t        217         215         222        238                    220         221         233        241         247         252        254         25?         250
Utlad Aus and Aman
.5U.                             9z2        879         944         884         803        950        807          087        98?                    852        85D          012        927         879         907        U2 8ad0?               8s
V.gdnbbo                            5          7                       " 9        8                      to  a      12          15                      5           7           8          8           0          9          Ito         I          12
rIha,8 II
LoalT. Amon                     2275        2317       22089       23D5        2175        2123       2114        2108       20c9                    2309       20D?        2407       2437        2415        2488       2a43        2444        2452
WV T. Amen                       545         578        810         815         543         40t        48?         482        483                     587        700         958       1089        1213        1457       1407        1503        1514
Pebi
L11*1w
Local Boao
HYV Oowo                         942         am8       1013        1087        1109        l103       1102        Ills       1121                    s8e        lo0t        1027        1048       1087        1113       1123        1147        1170
Whl                              102         1W7         III        105         123         119        123         137         151                    137        t87         213        283         3t9         411        433         523         633
Pul.m                            724         708         707        740         824        *53         887        9Om         a7l                     754        783         9am         7(8        am8         014        82?         843         854
Os .d,                          320        3t3          331        325         320         341        353         383        387                     333        321         343         397        379         422        425         443         4t8
Sl.a&ePelo                         19        1           to          19         23          17         1t          19          21                     17          ls         17          14          i I5       t5          14          14         14
Poetb                             35          41          43         40          47          47         49          SI          57                     37         39          41          43     '44             47          48         40          20
Veg9 blez                         28          31          29         33          32          31         35          39          41                     29         33          31          37          35         37          30         41          43
SpIce                             57          58          53         59          47          40         53          54         57                      83         58          07          85         as          72          71         72          74           0
othe (Sugarcana                   SI         A1           51         51          47          SI         s0          50          s0                     SI         SI          SI          SI         St          SI          SI         51          so
To1l Csopp.dAim                 7s10        7735       90327       9193       7950        0014        80151       Bil8       sl8e                    o100,      8848        985        0154        0401       10847      10189       10358       1s884
NetCu.o1    dAt*&               5811        5811      5811        5811       5811        SalI        saiI        5811      s58t 1                   511        5811        51         5811        5811        5811       5811        5411       5811
C op Inlt.3sty                   1.41       1.42        1.44        t.48        1.42       1.43        1.43        1.45       1.48                    1.48       1.54        1.59       1.83        1.89        t.79       1181        1.5         1.88
Hg
a. 
O 



- 61 -
Annex 2
Table 21
SNGLADESH
8WDB Small sctemes Projet
(Or. 1467-0)                                     Annec2
Project Complefon Feport                              Tale 21
Crappedt Ares- Cferlcrl tSel lrription (a)
WmhoutPmrect                                               wnnpmPmct
FY95     rFY        FY97      FYPE      F  FYS5    FY96                         FY97      FY93     FY54
LQcl S. Aus                 470       467       464       461       458                 469       258       150        70        40
Local T. Aus
HWVAUs                                                                                   48        38        33        30        20
O epwater Aman
AmdAuse arnAman              32        30        26        24        20                  32        32        32        32        32
JtC                          62        67        74        78        82                  55        50        45        40        35
VMgmlies                      9        10        12        15        20                   9        15        17        20        25
LQQI T. Aman                486       453       437       429       426                 428       386       338       315       291
HWVT. Amian                 311       326       346       356       363                 393       453       503       543       617
HYV Boro                                                                                300       552       880       768       807
Wheat                        31        33        35        38        41                  35        34        32        30        28
Pulses                       83        81        79        76        71                  el        75        70        60        55
qNseeC1                      52        54        55        57        58                  50        45        42        40        37
S*eeKPoar
PQtCtQ                                                                                    2         3         3         4         5
eg.m0ies                     18        20        23        26        29                  25        27        30        35        36
SpeCs                        40        41        43        44        45                  42        44        45        46        47
086r  rne)                   80        60        s0        60        60                  60        55        50        45        40
Taal Cmpp  Ame             1634      1642      1654      1664      1673                2029      2067      2070      2078      2115
Net Cut LL  A-l            1037      1037      1037      1037      1037                1037      1037      1037      1037      1037
Crop Inmnsiry               1.58      1.58      1.5      1.60      1.61               1.96       1.99     Z00       200       Z04



- 62 -
Annex 2
Table 22
BANGLADESH
swoD  Small schemes Proiet
(or. 1d7-90)
Proect CompleVUOn Repcrt
0bdpp  Area-Hata tfIgaOn SuD-protct(a)
Wthout Pmout                                      wltt poject
rim       FY97      FYS3      F           m FYC                          t FY97   FYE       FYl)      FYm
LElS. Aus                    215       375       517       647       764
Lal T. As                     25        44        60        76        90                  30         60        a5       115       140
HW Aus                        14       23         31        38        45                 180       330        485       635       790
Deepw.t Amen
t Aus artl man
JA"
Vugirllesi
Local T. Amanl               392       728      1064      1400      1738                 210        390       570       750       930
MYVT. Amen                   96        182       256       350       434                 480       910       1330      1750      2170
Local Sw3                    231       454       664       961      1221
mwarO                         25        50        s0       105       135                 380       715       1140      1500      1960
Wheat
Pulises                       39        e        138       200       279                  42         65        66        94        78
04a.:Vs                       Ia1       23      32          50        70                  14        33         67        94       132
Sweet PoB9
PaC                           2          3         5        12        16                   4         7         14        19        31
'ageu bes                     21        42        67       2         116                  21         46        71       106       140
Spces                         2          3         5         6         6                   2          7        10        19        23
Otr- "m nelon)                2          3         5         6         6                   2          3        10        13        16
T    CaiMea Aea            1077      2011       2965      3929      4918                1345      2566       3868      5095      6310
Ngt COA M Area               700      1300      1S00      2500      3100                 700       1300      1900      2500      3100
0>  Inwmty                  1.54      1.55      1.56       1.57      1.59                1.92      1.97      204       204       Z04



- 63 -
Annex 2
Table 23
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(CR. 1467 - BD)
Project Completion Report
Economic Analysis - Kangsha FCD (Tk Million)
Investment  O&M Costs 1/ Inc. Net Prod.   Incr. Net
Costs                    Value        Benefits
Yearl (FY85)            17.4                                  -17.4
Year2                   16.5                                  -16.5
Year3                   26.1                                  -26.1
Year4                   14.0                                  -14.0
YearS                   16.7                                  -16.7
Year6                   10.0                                   -10.0
Year7                   17.0                                  -17.0
Year8                    2.2                       34.1         31.9
Year9                    5.2                       40.5         35.3
Yearl 0                 102           2.7          44.2         31.3
Year1l                                 2.7         48.3         45.6
Year12                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Yearl3                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Yearl4                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Yearl 5                               2.7          53.6         50.9
Yearl 6                               2.7          53.6         50.9
Year17                                2.7          53.6         50.9
Yearl 8                                2.7         53.6         50.9
Yearl 9                               2.7          53.6         50.9
Year2O                                2.7          53.6         50.9
Year2l                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Year22                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Year23                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Year24                                2.7          53.6         50.9
Year25                                2.7          53.6         50.9
Year26                                2.7          53.6         50.9
Year27                                2.7          53.6         50.9
Year28                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Year29                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Year3O                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Year3l                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Year32                                 2.7         53.6         50.9
Economic Rate of Return =     19.3%
1/ Estimated at 2% of the investment costs.



-64 -
Annex 2
Table 24
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(CR. 1467 - BO)
Project Completion Report
Economic Analysis - Bighai FC (Tk Million)
Investment  O&M Costs 1/ Inc. Net Prod.   Incr. Net
Costs                    Value        Benefits
Yearl (FY85)            16.4                                  -16.4
Year2                   33.4                                  -33.4
Year3                   14.2                                  -14.2
Year4                    2.8                                    -2.8
YearS                    4.3                                    -4.3
Year6                    2.1                                   -2.1
Year7                    3.6                                    -3.6
Year8                    2.2                       15.1         12.9
Year9                    4.6                       28.2         23.6
Yearl 0                  7.5           1.8         29.1         19.8
Yearl1                                 1.8         34.7         32.9
Yearl2                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Yearl3                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Yearl 4                                1.8         37.4         35.6
Yearl5                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Yearl6                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Yearl7                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Yearl8                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Yearl9                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year2O                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year2l                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year22                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year23                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year24                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year25                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year26                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year27                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year28                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year29                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year3O                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year3l                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Year32                                 1.8         37.4         35.6
Economic Rate of Return =     17.4%
1/ Estimated at 2% of the investment costs.



- 65 -
Annex 2
Table 25
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(CR. 1467 - BD)
Project Completion Report
Economic Analysis - Kalaroa Drainage (Tk Million)
Investment  O&M Costs 1/ Inc. Net Prod.   incr. Net
Costs                     Value       Benefits
Yearl (FY85)            10.4                                   -10.4
Year2                   26.0                                   -26.0
Year3                   14.1                                   -14.1
Year4                    2.1                        9.1           7.0
Year5                    3.2                       15.5          12.3
Year6                    2.2                       17.2          15.0
Year7                    3.6                       21.6          18.0
Year8                    2.5                       29.1          26.6
Year9                    3.0                       38.4          35.4
Yearl0                   5.8           1.5         38.9          31.6
Yearl 1                                1.5         41.1          39.6
Yearl 2                                1.5         43.3          41.8
Yearl3                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Yearl 4                                1.5         43.3          41.8
Yearl                                  1.5         43.3          41.8
Yearl6                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Yearl 7                                1.5         43.3          41.8
Yearl 8                                1.5         43.3          41.8
Yearl9                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year2O                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year2l                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year22                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year23                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year24                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year25                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year26                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year27                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year28                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year29                                 1.5         43.3          41.8
Year3O                                 0.0          0.0           0.0
Year3l                                 0.0          0.0           0.0
Year32                                 0.0           0.0          0.0
Economic Rate of Return =      30.4%
1/ Estimated at 2% of the investment costs.



- 66 -
Annex 2
Table 26
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(CR. 1467 - BD)
Project Completion Report
Economic Analysis - Chenchuri irrigation (Tk Million)
Investment  O&M Costs 1/ Inc. Net Prod.   Incr. Net
Costs                     Value        Benefits
Yearl (FY85)              2.6                                    -2.6
Year2                     1.9                                    -1.9
Year3                     4.0                                    -4.0
Year4                     1.3                                    -1.3
Year5                     3.3                                    -3.3
Year6                     6.9                                    -6.9
Year7                     7.7                                    -7.7
Year8                    27.1                                   -27.1
Yearg                    21.5                                   -21.5
Yearl0                   11.0                                   -11.0
Yearl 1                                1.9          18.2         16.3
Yearl2                                 2.9          25.4         22.5
Yearl3                                 3.4          28.9         25.5
Yearl4                                 3.8          31.6         27.8
YearlS                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year16                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Yearl7                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Yearl8                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Yearlg                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year2O                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year2l                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year22                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year23                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year24                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year2S                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year26                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year27                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year28                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year29                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year3O                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year3l                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year32                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year33                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year34                                 4.1          33.9         29.8
Year35                                 4.1        .-33.9         29.8
ERR=            18.0%
1/ Annex 2, Table 12. Assuming 20% supplementary irrigation for Aus, Aman and jute, 35% for wheat
and 100% for HYV Boro.



- 67 -
Annex 2
Table 27
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(CR 1467-SD)
Project Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Haida Extenslon Irrigatlon (rk Million)
(31 00 ha)
investment  O&M Costs 1/    inc. Net Prod.   Inc. Net
Costs                         Value       Benefits
Year1 (FYs8)                                      2.1                                      -2.1
Year 2                                            1.8                                      -1.8
Year 3                                            4.1                                      -4.1
Year 4                                            5.1                                       -5.1
Year 5                                           30.8                                      -30.8
Year 6                                           29.5                                     -29.5
Year 7                                           43.7                                     -43.7
Year 8                                           87.5                                     -87.5
Year 9                                           50.7                                      -50.7
Year 10                                          98.1                                     -98.1
Year 11                                          19.5                                     -19.5
Year 12                                          19.5             4.1             21.6     -2.0
Year 13                                                           8.0             43.6      35.6
Year 14                                                          12.2             66.2      54.0
Year 15                                                          15.3             86.6      71.3
Year 16                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 17                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 18                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 19                                                          20.0 *          106.8      86.8
Year 20                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 21                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 22                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 23                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 24                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 25                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 26                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 27                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 28                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 29                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 30                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 31                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 32                                              *           20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 33                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 34                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
Year 35                                                          20.0            106.8      86.8
ERR=            11.9%
1/ Amex 2. Table 11 . Assuming 20% of suppiementary irrigation for T. Aus and Aman. S0% for Local Boro and 1 00% for HYV Boro



- 68 -
Annex 2
Table 28
BANGLADESH
BWDB Small Schemes Project
(CR 1467-BD)
Project Completion Report
Economic Analysis - Whole Project (Tk Million)
Investment 1/              0 & M Costs               Inc. Net Prod.  Inc. Net
Costs      FCO 2/   Halda3/ Chenchuri 3/Total O&M     Value     Benefits
Year 1 (FY85)           69.6                                       0.0         0.0    -69.6
Year2                  104.3                                       0.0         0.0   -104.3
Year3                   141.5                                      0.0         11.9   -129.6
Year 4                   94.0                                      0.0         18.8    -75.2
Year 5                  234.8                                      0.0        20.8   -214.0
Year 6                 272.4                                       0.0        65.0   -207.4
Year 7                 297.7                                      0.0         131.9   -165.8
Year 8                 260.1                                       0.0       287.9      27.8
Year 9                  160.1                                      0.0       431.9    271.8
Year 10                 143.1                                      0.0       537.1    394.0
Year 1                  19.5      26.7                  1.9      28.6        642.7    594.6
Year 12                  19.5      26.7       4.1        2.9      33.7       699.1    645.9
Year 13                            26.7       8.0        3.4      38.1        752.1    714.0
Year 14                            26.7      12.2        3.8      42.7        782.4    739.7
Year 15                            26.7      15.3        4.1      46.1        805.1    759.0
Year 16                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 17                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 18                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 19                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 20                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 21                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 22                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 23                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 24                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 25                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 26                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 27                            26.7      20.0        4.1      50.8        825.3    774.5
Year 28                            24.9      20.0        4.1      49.0        820.9    771.9
Year29                             24.9      20.0        4.1      49.0        820.9    771.9
Year 30                            21.3      20.0        4.1      45.4        744.0    698.6
Year 31                            17.7      20.0        4.1      41.8        664.0    622.2
Year 32                            14.1      20.0        4.1      38.2        562.4    524.2
Year 33                             5.2      20.0        4.1      29.3        317.7    288.4
Year34                                0      20.0        4.1      24.1        140.7    116.6
Year35                                0      20.0        4.1      24.1        140.7    116.6
Economic Rate of Return            25.2%
1/ Annex 2, Table 17.
2/ Approximately 2% of the investment costs.
3/ Annex 2, Tables 26-27.



/ t             89                                90? 99-                                                               92
!?._ '> X                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
,!! '),, 8  tses   i, !BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
-/ y 5    v res.,ti                                ~~~SUBPROJECTS USED FOR ERR CALCULATION
!   gt   )  p   ;_   ' G t   \ ,<Gazht.                             *   ~~~~~~~~~~~SUBPROJECT LOCATIONS
-2             i/lugon                   ,                                                            REGION CAPITALS26
I  DI&A                  RANGPUR        <Ii    DIVISION CAPfTALS
\ '  \  <  %          <i7        i                                    (   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
x J t Rangpur t 4; . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
Kst,/.o.   '\Dmult   t,   t   X                                     _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
s . , \. . \ / - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REGION- BOUNDARIES
\.    +  \  \    0   te                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIVISION BOUNDARIES
.    .  >  |   ff  t   >                      -  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUJNDARIES
i    ,  .  , .< . .  , ,i |   t   t  FJAMALPUR    t    _. ----                                            -  
25   {   )    eOCRA33   (           X      X         1. t                 K~~~~~~~~~~~K ~ an  Dnznr  Cucb        / 1,                   25-
2)                                                                                                  =i, \ tW zI,aapr,,\ , >lhe~'\
,}  sXsunfi;i;, OG'  Ao9a;                                                    MA NSNHYLF                                /               -rsl.r
s  . tx  RAJSHANS  t    p    \      t    g      Smensingh) \vS   <                          s                 /       t       J /,
\,    Xt   \.   [   ' ' |    -   /  '.   gMadFupur  1  \  .                ,               a         .-  .>~~~~~~k
>    . ,  <   X     2  li   f) TAIXIGAiL           ;        &            J        Hab/gon~~~~~~~~SLH  f      
-2.1                                                                                  k    , /,   l' ( )Jydebour  I.tj                            N  D  I A        24 
'                                                                                                           .t     
=;  /  t  _  >\X1 j [ J I i (:!lTli\G()j}G C.- 1
,   t  t           !<                               X     1h: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-)COMILLA                                             I 
t  Klaf  D,bio'se  \  1  O' 1FARISOPUR                       1v e                                           ' 
| N D | A   \   S  > . l , V  ,        <           E         x. N( )AKHAtI             \    <y!_                      t~~~~~~~~~~HIL
n  \  jV   'R'  KHULNA  >  !  jt' i' / /   Peduckhah Eli ks \ \+> v'?' l \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
'  1  !  F; t   : *^ghaiFIOOdnfr,Ol               i                   ch,"gOng  <<       l            h i~~~F
,, 1            , ,      ,    /PTUKHL.                          g\                       $Ka-  
II N  D IBNDRAA
NEPAL,   >\._  ,,.^HUThu  *;                                                                                       )   n             . I~~~ KHAL
''~~~@~' ''ts\                                                                                                                     k      iUfNj
'>,  ;  INIA                                     ilty  t  t11 : {                                             -|    /'        t+ 
". \   -    ..                                                                                           t k              \. !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cing
; X  OHAKA ./ ~ ~     ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        ~      ~              \ t          <~opro
INDIA  \Pt.9 I/sIlEIS r\~  t                                                                                                     \       D      21A
2 2i                                                                                                                                                         22 
.    ,J   0  2j'i   'j0    7'i Kilrelers                                                                 \~~~HITTGON'
v '*!;   o   2'i   5i1hnales                                                                                 i_;~~~IANDAABA
NEPAL           rB1e77                                                9t9t                                                                   2                            .
r                                                                                                                                                                      r.n~--X






I



IMAGING
ReDort No;       16174
TyDe: PER
I



