DIcument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4615-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLA DE SH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
April 10, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1    Taka 25.0
Taka 1= US$ 0.04
WEICHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                          Metric lJnits
1 foot (ft)                 =         30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                 =         0,915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                 =         1.609 k-ilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                 =         0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)                 259 hectares (ha)
1 pound                               0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (ig ton)         =         1,016 kilograms (1.016 tons)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BADC      -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BRDB      -  Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BWDB      -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
CE        -  Chief Engineer
DAE       -  Directorate of Agriculture Extension
DEM       -  Directorate of Extension and Management
DOF       -  Department of Fisheries
EE        -  Executive Engineer
FFW       -  Food for Work Program
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -  Gross National Product
COB       -  Government of Bangladesh
PYV       -  High Yielding Variety
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
MTh       -  Irrigation Management Program
IRR       -  Internal Rate of Return
IWDFC     -  Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control Division
of Ministry of Agriculture
KSS       -  Krishi Samabaya Samiti (Village Agricultural Society)
LCB       -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOA       -  Ministry of Agriculture
O and M   -  Operation and Maintenance
PSA       -  Project Special Account
PPS III   -  Project Planning Schemes III Directorate
SDR       -  Special Drawing Right
SE        -  Superinterding Engineer
TCCA      -  Thana Central Cooperative Association



-i-             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Aman        -  Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested
ix: November - December
Aus         -  Rice planted during February or March and harvested during
June or July
B.          -  When preceding a crop means broadcast
Beel        -  Saucer-shaped area subject to flooding by rain or
river water
Boro        -  Rice transplanted in December to January and harvested in
April to May
District    -  Administrative unit in the charge of a Deputy Commissioner
comprising a number of subdivisions
Khal        -  Natural channel
'harif      -  Summer season (May through October)
Monsoon     -  Period of rains starting in June and ending in October
Paddy       -  Unhusked rice
Parishad    -  Board constituted for specific assignmente comprising elected
and Goverinment nominated members
Rabi        -  Winter season (October through May)
Subdivision -  Administrative unit comprising several thanas
T.          -  When preceding a crop means transplanted
Thana       -  Smallest administrative unit, formerly called a Police Station
Upazila     -  Upgraded thana as defined by Local Government (Thana Parishad
and Thana Administration) Ordinance 1982
Union       -  Unit of self-government at village level; there are about
ten unions in a thana
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  SECTORIAL BACKGROUND  * .....*. P ..99949 4 ...................       1
Agricultural Performance and Policies ......................          1
Agricultural Sector Programs 6nd Institutior,al Arrangements .       3
Physical Features ......  .  .*.* .*.**. ...e.**. *. **.             3
Water Subsector Development    4..........................           4
Prc&rams to Strengthen t'le Bangladesh Water DeveJopeint Board.      6
Operation and Maintenance of BWDB Schemes                            7
Cost Recovery                                                        8.
II. TOE cROJECT ...............    ...........*.. *           **94,       8
Location .........................8
bie ct Ive s .....§8
Project Description .............. ..... *. -        *. -  .....     9
Criteria for Selection of Subprojects .......................       10
Project Components                                                  11
Subproject Civil Works . *  * ..9       .                           16
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                 17
Institutional Arrangements                  0                       17
Coordination at the National Level ........18
Coordination at the Field Level                                     18
Procedures for Subproject Implementation                            19
Operation and Maintenance of Subprojects                            20
Implementation Schedule  ** .. . ..  * *** **** 9    99*            21
Monitoring and Evaluation  9*99 *9* 99999.9,.9999994.994.......999  21
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND DISBURSEMENT *o*eee............        22
Project Costs      *.       9        .999949999999949-9 *           22
Financing .... *........          ..... * .*9 999999499994 94994  *.***  23
Procurement *94*9499           .     . *                            24
Disbursement                                                        26
Project Special Account                                             27
Accounts and Audit  .... ........... .                        .     28



-liii-
Page No.
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, FARM INCOME, COST RECOVERY.       29
Production     ......... .                                          29
Marketing and Prices ................ .  ...*..                     30
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . .. . ...... ....................    33
Production and Employment ...*. .                                   33
Economic Analysis .................                          *      34
Sensitivity and Risks ......................-.... ..*...t           35
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................    36
List of Annexes
2.1  Climatic Elements
Table 1 - Mymensingh
Table 2  - Khulna
Table 3  - Barisal
Table 4  - Jessore
2.2  Guidelines for Selection of Subprojects
2.3  Scope of Consultancy Services for Subprojects
4.1  Detailed Cost Tables
Table 1 -  Kangsha River Flood Control and Drainage Improvement
Table 2  -  Kalaroa Drainage
Table 3 -  Bighai River Flood Control
Table 4  -  Chenchuri Irrig,ation
Table 5     Strengthening BWDB
Table 5a -  Strengthening BWDB - Pilot 0 and M Program
Table 6  -  Unappraised Flood Control and Drainage Subprojects
Table 7  -  Unappraised Drainage Subprojects
Table 8  -  Unappraised Flood Control Subprojects
Table 9  -  Unappraised Irrigation Subprojects
Table 10 -  Summary Account by Project Component
4.2  Procurement Schedules
Tabl.e 1 -  Civil Works
Table 2  -  Equipment



-iv-
4.3  Table 1  -  Summary Account by Time
Table 2 - Proposed Credit Allocation
Table 3 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.1 Cropping Patterns of Appraised Subprojects
5.2 Farm Budgets
Table 1  -  Flood Control and Drainage Subprojects, Present and Future
With Project
Table 2  -  Flood Control and Drainage Subprojects, Present and Future
Without Project
Table 3  -  Irrigation Subprojects, Present and Future With Project
Table 4  -  Irrigation Subprojects, Present and Future Without Project
6.1  Economic Prices
Table 1  -  Paddy
Table 2  -  Wheat
Table 3  -  Jute
Table 4  -  Oilseeds
Table 5  -  Fertilizers
6.2  Economic Benefits and Costs
CfARTS
25485  -  Bighai.  Area Elevation curve as compared to Stages of the
Bishkali River at Bamna Station
25486  -  Kalaroa.  Area Elevation Distribution as compared to stages
of the Betna River at Kalaroa Station
25487  -  Kangsha.  Area Elevation Distribution as compared to River
Kangsha stages
25489  -  BWDB Organization Chart
25490  -  BWDB Organization Chart for Planning and Implementation of
SubprGJects
25828  -  Organization - Pilot Decentralized 0 and M Program
25587  -  Implementation Schedule



MaPs
17471 - Kangsha River Flood Control and Drainage
Project - Layout of Works
17472  -  Kalaroa Drainage Project - Layout of Works
17473  -  Bighai Flood Control Project - Layout of Works
17474  -  Chenchuri Beel Irrigation Project - Layout of Works
17477  -  Location Map of Subprojects



BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORIAL BACKGROUND
Background
1.01    The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in its Second Five-Year Plan
(FY81-85) gives highest priority to the objective of achieving foodgrain
self-sufficiency. In the water subsector, the strategy for assisting GOB
in reaching this objective is to emphasize short gestating, low capital cost
per acre, high rate of return projects. This strategy was earlier identified
in the Bank report:  The Land and Water Sector Study - Bangladesh (Report No.
PS- 13, December 1, 1972) and reconfirmeed in the Joint Document of GOB and the
World Bank - Review of the Bangladesh Water Development Board (Report No.
2327-BD, April 2, 1979). Minor irrigation schemes in areas of little or no
flooding and drainage and flood control schemes in areas of moderate flooding
were to be emphasized.
1.02    In October 1982, GOB signed a contract with PRC Engineering
Consultants International to prepare feasibility reports on selected sub-
projects reflecting the above strategy. Funding was provided under the
Fourth Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1124-BD). GOB invited IDA to
appraise a project based on four complered subproject feasibility reports
(i.e., Kangsha River Flood Control and Drainage, Kalaroa Drainage; Bighai
River Flood Control, and North Chenchuri Beel Irrigation, April 1983). This
report is based upon the findings of an IDA appraisal mission, comprising
Messrs. W. Fairchild, C.P. Cheng, P. Streng and J. Srivastava, that visited
Bangladesh in June 1983. This project is accorded higb priority in GOB's
Annual Development Program (ADP).
Agricaltural Performance and Policies
1.03    Agriculture dominates Bangladesh's economy, providing about 57% of
GDP, 75% of employment and more than 80% of exports. Out of a total land
area of 35 M ac, about 22.5 M ac are under cultivation at an average cropping
intensity of'140%. Rice is the leading crop with about 80% of cropped area;
Jute and wheat account for about 5% each, and the balance is made up of a
variety of other crops, such as pulses, oilseeds, tobacco, fruits,
vegetables, and sugarcane.



-2-
1.04    Foodgrain production, mainly rice ard wheat, increased during the
last decade, but still does not meet domestic requirements, necessitating
substarntial imports. In the past six years, domestic production increased
from 13.2 M (FY78) to 15.1 M (long) tons (FY83). Foodgrain imports averaging
about 1.5 M tons annually are needed to mainLain minimum acceptable consump-
tion levels. Based on GOB's daily consumption target of 15.5 cz. per capita,
16.4 M tons of foodgrains (allowing 10% for seed, feed, and waste) were
required in FY83 to feed the population of over 95 M and (at a population
growth rate of 2.6%) 16.8 M tons would be required in FY84. Reflecting this
situation, the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan, prepared with IDA
assistance, and the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP, FY81-85) gave top priority
to increasing domestic production to 20 M tons by FY85. Halfway through the
Plan, indications were that this target was too ambitious, and the revised
Plan aims to produce 17.5 M tons of foodgrains in FY85.
1.05    Since there is little possibility of expanding the arable land area,
increased foodgrain production can be achieved only by intensifying land use
and raising crop yields. Programs to increase intensities and yields have
encountered a varieLy of physical, socio-economic, institutional and finan-
cial constraints. Widespread poverty in rural areas limits investments for
required agricultural inputs and on-farm development. Average holdings are
3.5 ac and are fragmented into 6-10 parcels.  About 25% of farm families own
less than one acre, and about 17% of all land is sharecropped. Small and
marginal farmers pay dearly for tenure and credit, and have poor access to
government-supported services and inputs. About a third of the rural
households own no land at all other than possibly their homestead, and about
50% are landless or functionally landless owning less than half an acre. The
percentage of the rural population below the poverty line (using a daily
calorie intake of 2,100 as the poverty line) had increased from 65% in 1964
to 87% in 1977, and this trend has continued. Institutional arrangements for
providing agricultural inputs to the farmer, including extension, remain
inadequate due to shortage of facilities and trained personnel. Access to
most rural areas is difficult because of poor roads and slow water transport.
1.06    With IDA and other donor assistance, GOB is continuing its efforts to
improve rural conditions and overcome production constraints. In addition to
the major program of infrastracture development, of which water subsector
development is the most important part, GOB has taken measures to strengthen
supporting institutions, credit and input supply, and marketing as well as
research and extension. Recent changes in agricultural policy include: (a)
greater reliance on the private sector for the distribution of irrigation
equipment, fertilizers, and pesticides; (b) reduction of input subsidies; (c)
increased procurement prices for foodgrains; and (d) increased availability
and eased access to agricultural credit.



-3-
ASicultural_Sectorj ProErms and institutir>nal ArIane&ments
1.07    The two major water agencies in the agricultural sector are the
Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) and Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC). BWDB is charged with the responsibility of
planning, constructing, operating and maintaining all flood control and
drainage schemes, and major and medium irrigation systems. BADC is mainly
responsible for the minor irrigation systems, i.e., low-lift pumps (LLP),
hand tubewells (HTW), shallow tubewells (STW), and deep tubewells (DTW).
In addition, BADC has been the major supplier of fertilizer and seeds. Fol-
lowing a policy shift towards privatization in the late 1970s, BADC is now
divesting some of its resposibilities. Fertilizer wholesale has been trans-
ferred in part to the private sector while most of the retail distribution is
handled now by private dealers and, to a lesser extent, cooperatives. BADC
remains responsible for multiplication, storage and distributior of certified
HYV rice and wheat seeds. Pesticides are marketed by government licensed
importers or manufacturers through authorized agents. Institutional lending
for agriculture is directed and coordinated by the Bangladesh Bank (BB) and
channelled through six nationalized commercial banks, the Thana Central
Cooperative Association/Krishi Samabaya Samity (TCCA/KSS), administered by
the Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB) system and the cooperative
banks.  The Department of Agriculture Extension (DAE) under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests provides extension services. DAE was established in
1980 through the consolidation of five previously independent agencies, i.e.,
Directorate of Agriculture-Extension and Management; Directorate of Agricul-
ture-Jute Production; Plant Protection Directorate; Horticulture Development
Board; and Tobacco Development Board. Currently IDA finances the Extension
and Research II Project (Cr. 1215-BD) to further improve extension effective-
ness through adoption of the training and visit (T and V) system. It covers
15 of the country's 21 districts. The Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council (BARC), which was created under the Agriculture Research I Project
(Cr. 828-BD), coordinates the agricultural research activities of a number
of specialized institutes covering rice, jute, sugar, foresty, fisheries,
tea, livestock and other crops and horticulture. These institutes have
devoted substantial effort to varietal development and cultural improvement.
Physical Features
1.08    Bangladesh is situated in the delta of three mighty rivers--
Ganges, Brahmaputra, and Meghna. Combined discharges from these rivers
during flood stage may exceed 5 M cusecs. Loss of life, property and crops
from flooding is excessive. Approximately two-thirds of the cultivable land
(22.5 M ac) is subject to annual flooding, with one-half of this to a depth
of over three feet. The delta topography is subdued and dissected by many
unstable water channels.
1.09    The deltaic soils have been formed on deep alluvial deposits and are
very fertile. These deposits typically range from silts and clays to sands.



*.4-
Over much of the area, silts and clay predominate in the top 50 to 75 ft,
with sands forming the major portion of the deposits at greater depths,
particularly in the northern two-thirds of the country. Soils in the coastal
fringe can be affected by saline inctirsiort during exceptional tides or years
of low monsoon rainfall. There is generally no alkali problem, however,
toxic acid sulphate soils occur in sttmall areas of Khulna district.
1.10    Logs from many hundred drilled wells show that almost all of
Bangladesh's delta area is underlain by groundwater withi water table depths
ranging from zero to 30 ft, depending on location and season. Regardless of
groundwater depth, the principal aquifer is hydraulically connected with the
rivers. During the monsoon, this aquifer is recharged by a vast increment of
rainwater, which in turn is partially drained by the streams during the dry
season.  ExcepL for the fringe coastal areas affected by salt water intru-
siotu, the quality of groundwater is generally good. Hence, there is an
opportunity to devel.op large groundwater supplies on a sustained basis. 1/
1.11    The mean annual rainfall varies from about 50 inches in the western
part of the country to about 200 inches in the northeast.  It is charac-
terized by wide seasonal fluctuations, with about 90% of rainfall occurring
in the five-month monsoon period (May to September). In spite of an overall
abundance of rainfall, serious droughts do occur. During the dry season,
much of the land cannot be cultivated without irrigation.
Water Subsector Development
1.12    Water subsector development was initially guided by the 1964 Water
Master Plan. This plan emphasized reducing flood damage, a major national
objective at that time. It envisaged 50 major projects to be implemented by
BWDB, which would provide flood control and drainage to 12.1 M ac and irriga-
tion to 7.9 M ac by 1985. Total estimated project cost in 1964 was US$2.1
billion. The few projects initiated under the Plan ran into implementation
and financing problems which resulted in stretched out construction schedules
and delays in achieving envisioned benefits.
1.13    Even though The Land and Water Sector Study (para 1.01) in 1972
called for a significantly different program from the 1964 Master Plan, BWDB
initially held to the view tha, its primary mission was to implement the high
capital cost, long gestating, flood protection schemes envisioned in the 1964
Master Plan. About this time, however, GOB's agricultural and water sector
objective was shifting from flood protection to food production stressing low
1/ Bangladesh: Appraisal of the Shallow Tubewell Project, World Bank,
Report No. 1373 a BD (June 2, 1977) estimated that about 4 M ac could be
irrigated from groundwater.



-.5-
capital Cost, quick yielding schemes such as LLPs, TWs, and smaller Irainage
and flood control proj6cts located in the shallower flooded areas.
.1l4    At the time of the Joint GOB/Worl.d Bank review of BWDB in 1979 (para
I.C1), low capital. cost, quick-yielding and high rate of return flood control
and drainage schemes made up only 10% of the estimated cost of BWDB's port-
folio. External aid to BWDB for these schemes was limited to the Early
Implementation Projects (EIP) funded by the Netherlands and a project funded
by Canada providing structures and technical assistance associated with
earthwork under the World Food Program's Food for Work (FFW) activity. The
Joint Review Mission identified the cultivated acreage (about 15.0 M ac) with
less than 3.0 ft annual flooding as the potential area for such schemes. GOB
has emphasized these schemes in its SFYP. BWDB has revamped its portfolio
accordingly, which now reflects the continued EIP effort that has completed
44 schemes (covering about 400,000 ac); it has added projects such as the
Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project (Cr. 955-BD) co-financed with
Canada (limited to installlng structures associated with FEW installed
embankments in about 100 schemes covering 350,000 ac); Small Scale Irrigation
Sector Credit, financed by the Asian Development Bank and European Economic
Community (about 30 schemes covering 250,000 ac); and the recently approved
IFAD-financed Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project,
which will cover about eight schemes and 15,000 ac.  Potentially, a sizeable
area remains in Bangladesh for implementing these high priority schemes. In
June 1973, about 3 M ac of agricultural land were properly drained and
protected from floods by BWDB projects.  By June 1978. this area siad
increased to 4.5 M ac and is targeted to reach 6.3 M ac by June 1985. GOB
plans to increase the area mainly through low capital cost, quick yielding
projects. BWDB's performance in execution of these projects has been satis-
factory. Problem areas have been preparation of detailed designs and
arranging easement rights in time to meet the construction scheduile. These
two aspects have been suitably addressed (paras 2.16, 3.01, and 3.07) for
implementation of this Project.
1.15    With increased funding provided in GOB's ADP, the area covered by
minor irrigation 1/ increased from about 1.0 M ac in 1972 to about 2.5 M ac
in 1982. IDA contributed significantly to this growth by financing several
minor irrigation schemes, namely Northwest Tubewells (Cr. 341-BD), Sh.allow
Tubewells (Cr. 724-BD), Low-Lift Pump (Cr. 990-BD), Hand Tubewells (Cr.
1140-BD) and Deep Tubewells II (Cr. 1287-BD). In addition, IDA is supporting
expansion of minor irrigation through rural development and agricultural
credit projects. The SFYP calls for 7.2 M ac to be irrigated by the end of
FY85. This program would require installation of minor systems serving 3.0 M
ac during FY83-85. This target appears overly ambitious and probably will
not be zmet. Even with current density of TW sitings, there are reports of TW
1/ Does not include about 1.0 M ac of traditional irrigation.



-6-
interference with some RTWs and STWs going dry. Therefore, IDA has advised
GOB to halt further installation of TWs in the few affected Thanas. Proce-
dures and regulations to ensure appropriate TW sitings are under preparation,
In addition, the Thana level irriga.ion maps are being updated to guide local
officials in the efficient installation of TWs. Originally, all minor irriga-
tion equipment was procured and installed by GOB, with the farmers paying a
rental charge for its use. Following a GOB/Bank review of the Minor Irriga-
tion Sector (April 1981), it was decided to shift major responsibility for
this program to the private sector. STW and LLP rental schemes are being
phased out with all rental equipment to be sold by June 30, 1984. Starting
in FY83. TW sale prices have been set at full current replacement cost per-
mitting private suppliers to compete with the public sector.
1.16    An Irrigation Management Program (IMP) was introduced in the Rtural
Development I Project (Cr. 631-BD) in FY80 to maximize irrigation equipment
utilization, minimize cost of operation, and to increase foodgrain produc-
tion. Under this program, BRDB, BADC and DAE officers at district and Thana
levels are jointly responsible to support TCCAs to carry out the following:
(a) preparation of action plans; (b) organizing KSS meetings to explain the
merits of better 'Aater management; (z) training of managers and chairmen of
KSS, TCCA inspectors, village accountants, block leaders, fieldmen, and
tubewell operators; (d) preparation of la_' maps and land registers;
(e) laying of irrigation channels; (f) preparation of irrigaton budgets; and
(g) obtaining production credit. Through FY82, IMP covered 43 TCCAs and 430
Irrigation units and on average increased command areas of these units by
53%, farmers participation by 35% and yields by 15%. Such promising results
led GOB to decide to replicate this program on a nationwide basis. The
current plan is to extend INP into 75 Thanas annually in four successive
years and in each selected Thana have five IMP schemes per year. BRDB is
responsible for monitoring IMP activities. The Rural Development Academy at
Bogra has the training responsibility for GOB staff with assistance of a
UNDF/FAO pxoject. IDA is supporting the IMP under both DTW II (Cr. 1287-BD)
and Rur:;U Development II (Cr. 1384-BD) projects.
Programs to Strengthen the Bangladesh Water Development Board
1.17    The Joint GOB/Bank Review of BWDB (para 1.14) identified additional
areas requiring attention in the water subsector. These included: (a)
improving water sector planning; (b) strengthening the implementatLon
capacity of BWDB; and (c) rehabilitating operating BWDB schemes. As a
result, programs and projects have been planned or taken up that have begun
to address these deficiencies. UNDP financed and the Bank served as execut-
ing agency cn two projects, i.e. Improving Water Sector Planning (BGD/79/018)
and Strengthening the Implementation Capacity of BWDB (BGD/79/040).  Under
the first project, revised planning procedures for planning water sector
projects were prepared and adopted. Tlhese procedures addressed the problems
of: (a) relating water sector schemes to national objectives; (b) identifying
higher priority schemes; and (c) improving economic analysis. Also, this



-7-
project prepared the terms of reference for a Water Sector Master Planning
Program, which has resulted in another UNDP-financed and Bank-executed
project (BGD/82/023). lhis three-year project was initiated in January 1983.
Its major objective is to prepare a water sector master plan and develop a
permanent Master Planning Organization (MPO). It is to contribute to GOB's
Third Five-Year Plan (FY86-90) in the form of an agriculturally oriented
project portfolio and a long-term framework plan for the period 1990-2005.
1.18    Strengthening the Implementation Capacity of BWDB project
(BGD/79/040) proposed programs to: (a) establish a Member Operations and
Maintenance (O and M) and a separate 0 and M unit at the eircle and divi-
sional level in BWDB; (b) provide greater delegational authority to Zonal
Chief Engineers and staffs; and (c) identify problems of deteriorated BWDB
operating schemes resulting from deferred maintenance. GOB and BWDB have
followed through or these recommendations as evidenced by the establishment
of a Member 0 and M, additional delegations to field staffs, and assessing
needs for rehabilitating operating schemes. This last item is being under-
taken jointly by BWDB and MPO with funding to be provided by the Water Sector
Master Planning Program (BGD/82/023). It will result in tenrs of reference
for the preparation of the proposed BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project,
tentatively included in IDA's FY87 lending program. It is in this
nation-wide project that major follow-up effort would be made to develop the
mranpower and financial resources needed for the efficient and continued
operatioal of BWDB's ongoing schemes.
Operation and Maintenance of BWDB Schemes
1.19    Inadequate funding in the revenue budget has been mainly responsible
for the extensive deferred maintenance of BWDB schemes, which has resulted in
inefficient operation and reduction in benefits. Available funds have
generally been sufficient to cover establishment and operational costs only
with little remaining for maintenance. In line with the programs envisaged
in the project--Strengthening the Implementation Capacity of BWDB (para
1.18)--BWDB with the approval of the Irrigation, Water Development and Flood
Control Division (IWDFC) in the Ministry of Agriculture plans to improve
O and M by decentralizing the organization under its Member 0 and M. BWDB
plans to commence a pilot program by establishing four C and M divisions
beginning in FY85 (para 2.17). The staff of these divisions will devote
themselves almost exclusively to improvement of system performance through
routine and protective maintenance. Their planning and construction respon-
sibilities would be limited generally to rehabilitation of operating schemes.
A major constraint to the efficient operation of these pilot divisions is the
paucity of ivailable funds. Experience from this pilot p:^ogram would be
useful in formulating a nationwide strengthening of the 0 and M program. GOB
is also planning to transfer the responsibility for 0 and M of small scale
flood protection, drainage, and irrigation schemes to the Upazila (upgraded
Thana) administration. Though -Lhe decision has been taken in principle,
details have to be worked out (para 3.06).



Cost Recovery
1.20    The growing number of irrigation projects which BWDB has completed
over the past two decades has resulted in increaLsed 0 and M costs. To date,
cost recovery from the beneficiaries has been practically nil. Hence,
implementation and 0 and M costs continue to burden the Government's budget.
Recently GOB has taken steps to commence recovery from the farmers. The
Irrigation Water Rate Ordinance 1983 which was promulgated in July, 1983,
provides for the imposition of water charges. Aelated rules and regulations
were gazetted on January 11, 1984 (para 5.10). Water rates are to be adopted
annually.
II.   THE PROJECT
Location
2.01    Because several donors are financing similar projects (para 1.14),
GOB on May 17, 1983, assigned districts in which such donor-financed schemes
would be located. GOB made these district designations to simplify coordina-
tion with donors and facilitate project implementation. Accordingly, this
project would normally be located in the ten IDA/IFAD districts of Khulna,
Barisal, Patuakhali, Jessore, Faridpur, Sylhet, Mymensingh, Jamalpur,
Tangail, and Pabna (Map 17477). It would thus comprise many small agricul-
tural areas distributed over almost half of Bangladesh. Generally, these
areas have human, physical and climatic characteristics similar to the nation
as a whole. Hence, the characteristics of the subprojects would be similar
to those described in paras 1.08 to 1.11. Annex 2.1 gives climatic condi-
tions in the areas of the four appraised subprojects.
Objectives
2.02    The project is consistent with GOB's target of seeking foodgrain
self-sufficiency. Its objectives are to:
(a)  increase agricultural production by:
(i) adding areas under high-yielding Boro, Aman, and wheat
through improved drainage or by providing irrigation;
(ii) reducing crop losses from flooding by providing flood
protection;
(b)  alleviate some rural unemployment by emphasizing labor intensive
construction techniques;
(c)  support transfer of 0 and M responsibilities for completed small
schemes to local bodies;



-9-
(d)  foster recovery of 0 and M costs from beneficiaries; and
(e) strengthen BWDB capability to carry out similar schemes, and to
implement a "Pilot Decentralized 0 and M Program".
Project Description
2.03    The five-year project (FY85-89) would comprise (a) about 30 short
gestating, low cost per acre, and high rate of return flood control,
drainage, or irrigation subprojects and (b) means to strengthen BWDB's
capacity for implementation of such schemes as well as to initiate a nation-
wide 0 and M program for all BWDB projects '.hrough a Pilot Decentralized 0
and M Program. Among these subprojects would be a number that had been
included in the recently appraised IFAD Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage
and Irrigation Project (Report No. 4463-BD) but had to be dropped because
they could not be accomodated withia the limits of IFAD's available resour-
ces. The subprojects would be selected in accordance with the agreed
guidelines (para 2.04). The total number of subprojects to be completed
would be flexible depending upor. their size and type.  With the flood protec-
tion measures envisaged, flooding cannot be totally avoided since rainfall
would cause flooding when sluice gates are closed during high flood stage.
However, the severity of such flooding would be significantly reduced, com-
pared to "without project" conditions. Drainage schemes would be undertaken
on lands with no flooding problems or combined with flood protection
measures. Such schemes would permit adequate rainwater storage in depres-
sions (beels) or drainage channels (khals) to meet planned irrigation and
fishery requirements.  Flood protection and drainage subprojects would be
selected in areas where major projects are not planned in the foreseeable
future. Irrigation schemes would be based on primary pumping from adjacent
river channels or khals to a system of irrigation channels which would
deliver water to farmers' fields by gravity. This would permit a second crop
in the dry season. Farm ditches for distribution of water beyond the outlets
of the channel system and farm drainage channels would be included under the
scheme and detailed layouts would be prepared. Construction costs of these
on-farm developments would be borne by the farmers. Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that in irrigation subprojects BWDB would design
and lay out the farm irrigation ditches and farm drainage channels and, upon
farmers' agreement to bear the cost of such construction as sell as of sub-
sequent 0 and M, supervise their construction and synchronize completion of
these on-farm developments with the completion of the main system. BWDB's
capability to implement these schemes would be strengthened by providing
technical assistance for feasibility studies, detailed designs, assistance in
construction supervision, and training of staff, as well as procurement of
limited construction, transport, and design equipment. The BWDB Pilot
Decentralized 0 and M Program would be based on four divisions in different
parts of the country. This pilot program would provide, after monitoring
results over a five-year period, the necessary input for the nationwide 0 and
M arrangements covering all BWDB projects.



-10-
Criteria for Selection of Subprojects
2.04    The following guidelines (detailed in Annex 2.2) would be used by
GOB and BWDB for selecting subprojects:
(a)  base costs of Tk 60.0 M (about US$2.4 M) or less;
(b)  base costs of drainage and flood control subprojects of Tk 3,700
per acre (about US$150 per acre) or less;
(c)  base costs of irrigation subprojects including field channels
of Tk 10,000 per acre (about US$400 per acre--about US$250 for
irrigation system and about US$150 for field channels) ox less;
(d) size of benefitted .irea for drainage and flood control to range
between 2,500 and 20,000 acres, and for irrigation between 1,000
and 10,000 acres;
(e)  flood depth in flood protection schemes not to exceed 4.5 ft over
80% of the area, and river channel banks to be relatively free of
bank erosion during flooding season;
(f)  farmland in proposed irrigation schemes to be flood-free and well
drained; otherwise provision for flood control and drainage to be
included;
(g)  landholdir:g patterns in the subproject areas would permit a large
number of farmers to benefit; at least 70% of the farm families
would operate holdings of three acres or less;
(h)  maximum of two construction seasons for completion of civil works;
(i)  beneficiaries to indicate strong general support for the
subproject and be prepared to participate actively In its
implementation--including providing funds for on-farm development
in irrigation subprojects--and subsequent 0 and M1;
(j)  subproject proposals would be evaluated fully to determine their
effect on adjacent areas;
(k)  a subproject feasibility study would review the entire infra-
structure requirement of the area, I.e. flood control, drainage,
and irrigation, as well as the fisheries and water transport
requirements. Works proposed under the subproject would be
complete for the relief intended, and would incorporate existing
or on-going works; completion of on-going works would be assured
by the Borrower; and



-ll-
(1)  a subproject's economic rate of return would be at least 20%.
2e05    Subprojects which fully meet the guidelines could be started without
prior IDA approval, but GnB would send the feasibility report to IDA. In the
case of subprojects which may affect the flow of international streams, IDA
would not be able to finance such subprojects unless there was beforehand an
appropriate agreement among the countries concerned.  When a subproject does
not meet the guidelines fully, the feasibility report would justify its
inclusion in the project and IDA concurrence would be obtained before work is
started. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that these guidelines would
be used in selecting subprojects.
Project Components
2.06    Project components reflecting the major subproject function inclulde:
flood control and drainage (base cost---US$5.9 M); drainage (base cost--
US$6.1 M); flood control (base cost--Us$8.4 M); irrigation (base
cost--US$10.7 M); and strengthening BWriB (base cost--US$10.9 M). The sub-
project mix (eight flood control and drainage, about 64,000 acres; eight
drainage, 78,000 acres; six flood control, 59,000 acres; and five irrigation,
24,000 acres) used in the formulation of the project is based on a prelimi-
nary list of BWDB-identified subprojects. The number, type, and cost of
schemes implemented could differ somewhat, depending on viability and
ultimate priority.  GOB has engage6 a consulting firm (financed under IDA
Credit 1124-BD) to prepare feasibility studies for ten subprojects. Four
feasibility studies were available at appraisal (para 1.02). The remaining
six studies have recently been received by IDA. Of the appraised sub-
projects, the Kangsha River subproject would provide flood control and
drainage, the Kalaroa subproject drainage, the Bighai River subproject flood
control, and the Chench-uri subproject irrigation. These four subprojects, as
described below, were used as typical examples to estimate overall costs and
benefits of the project. (See Annex 4.1 for detailed cost estimates on
appraised and unappraised subprojects).
2.07    Kangsha River Flood Control and Drainage Subproject is located in
Thana Purbadhala of Mymeiisingh District. This subproject would benefit an
area of 28,640 ac of which 27,500 ac is agricultural land.  Groundwater
availability is good, but only a snall area is currently irrigated from TWs.
Farmers would be encouraged to use LLPs and STWs for additional irrigation,
when their lands are drained and protected from floods. Although the sub-
project area is larger than stipulated in the guidelines, implementation is
desirable since (a) investment for flood control is small due to existing
road embankments, and (b) GOB attaches high priority to this area because of
social consideraLions (benefitted population being about 83,000, and the
number of farms 9,615). Flooding In the subproject area is typical of the
flooding in the northern districts. Flooding of lowlands occurs from inade-
quate internal drainage and overflow from rivers. Stages of Kangsha River



-12-
and land elevations in the subproject area are shown in Chart 25487. Early
river floods are most damaging since Boro and Aus crops nearing harvest get
submerged at that time. Later floods submerge Aman at the early growth
stage, when long submergence cannot be tolerated. The subproject area is
flooded by Kangsha (along the northern boundary), Mogra (close to the
southern boundary), and Jaria (flows into the area from the west) Rivers.
Flood depth is less than 4.5 ft over 80% of the area.  Stream bank erosion is
negligible.
2.08    An 11.5 mi long embankment. with gated sluices at intercepted khals
would protect the area against flooding from Kang6ha and Jaria Rivers. The
latter river would be diverted to the Kangsha by reactivating an old channel.
Flooding from the Mogra River wculd be controlled by the existing road
embankment, which would need to be raised in some sections and provided with
gated sluices at khals. In all, this subproject would have seven controlled
sluices allowing two-way flow to serve the needs of drainage, irrigation, and
fisheries. About 29 mi of existing khals would be regraded to allow quicker
evacuation of surplus rainwater when river water levels are low, and bring
river water to the low areas for fisheries or irrigation. The subproject has
about 8B0 ac of Beels. These wGuld be suitably drained for growing Boro
paddy in the higher lands and developing fisheries in the lower areas.
Farmers have agreed that provision would not be required in regulated sluices
for passage of country boats. IBRD Map 17471 shows the proposed works. The
subproject base cost is Tk 61.7 M. Cost per acre of agricultural area is
about Tk 2,240 (US$90).
2.09    Kalaroa Drainage Subproject is located in Thana Kalaroa of KhuLna
District. This subproject would provide drainage for 18,000 ac of good
agricultural land. The topography is relatively high and the adjoining Betna
(western boundary) and Kapatakshi (located not far from the eastern boundary)
Rivers do not cause overbank flooding, except in a small area where a short
embankment is proposed. Stages of Betna River in Kalaroa and the elevation of
the Jands in the subproject are shown in Chart 25486. The two rivers are
influenced by tidal variation. During the low flow period, water becomes
saline in the Betna River but Kapatakshi River supplies remain sweet. Back-
flow of saline water into the khals and beels affects the suitability of
water for irrigation.
2.10    Drainage works to be installed would allow storage of rainwater for
irrigation in interior beels and khals. By increasing the carrying capacity
of khals, flood damage would be reduced and gated sluices would protect
farmland from contamination by saline Betna River water.  Planned improve-
ments would allow admitting sweet Kapatakshi River water into the khals and
beels for irrigation.  Irrigation service from groundwater is not feasible
due to low annual recharge and the danger of salinity intrusion into the
aquifer. The works proposed are 0.75 mi of embankment to stop bank overflow,
14.5 mi of regraded khals, 9 sluices with gates for water control, and 11
bridges to provide all-weather crossings of the khals. IBED Fap 17472 shows



-13-
the works proposed. After completion of drainage works, farmers would be
encouraged to organize LLP user groups. The subproject base cost is
Tk 32.3 M. Cost per acre of agricultural area is about Tk 1,790 (US$72).
2.11    Bighai River Flood Control Subproject is located in Thana Mirzagunj
of Patuakhali District. This subproject would provide flood control to about
12,000 ac of good agricultural land. The area lies between the Bighai River
(eastern boundary) and the Bish'kali River (about 2 mi from the western bound-
ary). Two khals connect these two rivers and form the northern and southern
boundaries of the subproject area. Both rivers overflow their bank.s during
high tides. Chart 25485 shows the stages of the Bishkali River (Bighai River
stages are reported to be similar) and elevation of the subproject area. The
salinity of the water remains low for most of the year and farmers have been
using river water for irrigation. About 120 cusecs are currently pumved from
the khals for irrigation in Mirzagunj Thana.
2.12    Embankments are needed for flood protection.  An existing road
embankment prevents flooding from the northern khal.  An embankment along the
1ishkali River is under construction (earth work under FFW and structures
under IDA Credit 955-BD). This improvement should be completed by the end of
1984. The area benefited by these works does nc- include the Bighai sub-
project area.  Embanknients of 9.5 mi along the B. .ghai River and 3.5 mi along
the southern khal are proposed to complete flood protection for the sub-
project area.  The Bighai embankment would have eight gate-controlled sluices
at khals to permit drainage of surplus rainwater at low tides and allow river
water for irrigation into the khals during high tides. Iii addition, 10 pipe
outlets would be provided to allow drainage of small areas intercepted by the
embankment as well as to allow river water to be used for irrigation. IBRD
Map 17473 shows the works proposed. The subproject base cost is Tk 41.7 M.
Cost per acre of agricultural area is about Tk 3,470 (US$139).
2.13    Chenchuri IrrigatIon Subproject is located in Thana Narail of Jessore
District. The subproject would provide irrigation to about 1,900 ac by
lifting water from the adjacent Chitra River.  Chenchuri is a large beel area
(46,000 ac) where flood control and drainage measures are nearing completion
under the Drainage and Flood Control Project (Cr. 864-BD). Irrigation is
limited to about 1,900 ac since:
(a)  availability of water for irrigation of larger areas still
remains to be established by collecting discharge data of the
adjacent rivers;
(b)  development of a limited area would test institutional
arrangements envisaged for 0 and M of the irrigation system
and the on-farm water management program; and
(c)  experience from this subproject would provide the basis for
implementing replicable schemes.



-14-
The availability of surface water required by this subproject has been
checked from liaited records on Chitra River flows. The quality of this
water is good. It has been generally established that there are no down-
stream users of Chitra water who would be adversely affected by withdrawal
for this subproject. Irrigation from groundwater is not considered desirable
due to possible intrusion of saline water into the aquifer and the need to
preserve fresh groundwater for domestic use.
2.14    The irrigation system would comprise three primary pumping stations.
Each station would have a vertical diesel pump with a capacity of about 25
cusecs. Pump house and equipment wculd be protected from flooding by the
exieting flood protection embaikment. The pump sump would be connected to
the river by a pipeline.  The lumping static head would be about 14 feet.
Though electric power is available in the town of Narail, diesel sets are
preferred since electric power service could be erratic due to system break-
downs. Studies indicate that both electric and diesel installations have
about the same net present value at 12% interest. Each pump would feed about
1.5 mi of main canal and branches, which would be brick lined. Outlets would
be about 2 cusecs and the watercourses would be unlined. Division boxes,
field turnouts and other structures, including those for water measurement,
would be installed.  Field ditches are estimated at 7.4 mi per pump.  They
would be constructed by farmers at their cost under supervision of BWDB. The
farmers' fields are already developed into small basins for paddy cultiva-
tion. Initially little additional land shaping would be required. IBRD Map
17474 shows the layout of the irrigation system. The investment base cost of
the system, without field channels, is about Taka 14.3 K (US$305 per ac), and
the cost of field channels about Taka 5.6 M (US$119 per ac). The base cost
for the whole system is about 6Z higher than the guideline recommendation.
liowever, the subproject is strongly supported by BWDB officials, and it has
been accepted to permit fuller development of the Chenchuri Beel area. The
subproject should generate farmcr support for irrigated agriculture and could
lead to replicated schemes in the area after the availability of water is
better documented.
2.15    Strengthening BWDB Implementation and 0 and M Capacity would be in
two areas, (i) that required for planning, design, construction, and 0 and M
of the small and simple subprojects included in the project; and (ii) that
needed for a Pilot Decentralized 0 and M Program, comprising four BWDB divi-
sions. GOB with external assistance has recently taken various steps to
strengthen BWDB. Further actions are envisioned in two projects, i.e. Water
Sector Master Planning and proposed BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
(paras 1.17 and 1.18). To strengthen BWDB's capability to implement this
project and future projects of a similar nature, the project would provide:
(a) technical assistance for preparation of feasibility studies and designs;
(b) technical assistance for construction supervision; (c) training of BWDB's
project personnel; and (d) construction, transport, and office equipment.



-15-
2.16    Analysis by the appraisal mission indicates thet field staff
associated with the Zonal Chief Engineers generally have the capaclty to
implement the simple subprojects envisioned in this project. Experience in
Bangladesh with similar projects indicates that the main constraint to timely
implementation has been completion of feastbility plans and final designs for
construction. The estimated technical assistance (TA) requirement for com-
pleting required feasibility studies is about 24 man-months of expatriate
anid about 168 man-months of local experts. 1/  To overcome the design con-
straint, BWDB has established a Design Cell in its Project Planning Schemes
III Directorate and has posted part of the required staff (para 3.01).
Detailed design of subprojects would be the responsibility of this cell,
which would be assisted by about 36 man-months of expatriate and 800
man-months local experts. TA for construction planning and construction
supervision is estimated at about 90 man-months of local experts. Annex 2.3
gives the consultancy requirements for preparation of feasibility studies,
detailed design, and construction supervision. Assurances have been obtained
from GOB that the consultants would be in place by January 1, 1985. For the
evaluation of the project's impact, separate local consultants would be
employed (para 3.08). Training of BWDB staff would include workshops, semi-
nars, and visits to similar projects. The program would include centralized
workshops at Dhaka for senior staff, regional seminars for field staff on the
pattern of the on-going program under the Small Scale Drainage and Flood
Control Project (Credit 955-BD), and overseas training in specialized areas.
GOB would submit a training program to IDA for review. Experience with
similar projects also indicates that provision of a limited quantity of
transport and construction equipment is required for project implementation.
Transport equipment would increase the mobility of supervision staff, while
some construction equipment of a general nature would create a pool to supply
any subproject, as well as to address situations arising from the unexpected
breakdown of contractors' construction equipment. (See Annex 4.1, Table 5,
or detailed cost of TA, training, and equipment).
2.17    The project would provide funding for a Pilot Decentralized 0 and M
Program in four divisions in line with the program envisaged in the
Strengthening of the Implementation Capacity of BWDB Project (BGD/79/040)
(para 1.18).  This program (para 1.19) would assign full 0 and M respon-
sibility of all BWDB operational projects within a division to specific staff
and would provide this staff with adequate funds to carry out their respon-
sibilities. This divisional staff would comprise an Executive Engineer,
subdivisional officers, and support staff, including pump and gate operators
at the subdivisional level (para 3.03).  BWDB has selected the Comilla,
Satkhira, Rajshahi and Moulvi Bazar Divisions for the program because they
cover a wide range of agro-climatic conditions and operating prolects, i.e.,
1/ Base cost--US$9,200 per man-month for expatriate and US$750 for local
experts.



-16-
coastal embankment, drainage, gravity and pump irrigation. The project would
provide required equipment, materials, and labor. Also, the project would
provide a limited amount of technical assistance (about 4 man-months
expatriate experts) to help the staff in planning and carrying out their
assigned responsibilities. It is envisaged that implementation of this
program would be staged with one pilot division becoming operational in FY85
and the remaining three in FY86. BWDB would send IDA a detailed program of
work for each pilot area showing the staff needed prior to posting of staff.
Hence, the first program of work would be furnished to IDA by January 1, 1985
and the other three by July 1, 1985. An assurance to this effect has been
obtained from GOB. Experience from the pilot areas would be reviewed during
project preparation and would be a valuable input to the proposed BWDB Sys-
tems Rehabilitation Project, which would have as one of its objectives the
nationwide strengthening of BWDB's 0 and M program (para 1.18; see Annex 4.1,
Table 5a for detailed cost of n.ilot 0 and M program).
Subproject Civil Works
2.18    Civil works under the subprojects wtuld involve small scale earth
movement and simple structures. Earth movement would compr se construction
of embankments for flood control, excavation of khals to improve drainage and
storage capacity) and constructing irrigation channels. Earthwork of this
type is done manually in Bangladesh, which is quite efficient and provides
employment to the rural poor. The project would use the same technique,
except for changing the specifications to include compaction by manually
operated rammers (little compaction is done now though placement is done in
layers and rlods are broken). The embankment slopes would be turfed and the
top would be maintained as an unpaved road for light vehicles. Embankments
would be designed to have about three feet free board for a 20-year frequency
flood. The improvement of khal sections would be based orn disposal of a
five-year frequency, five-day consecutive rainfall. Irrigation channels
would be unlined except where-lining would be justified by seepage considera-
tions or high land costs. Structures would comprise gate-controlled sluices,
bridges, irrigation distribution controls, drops, and pump stations. Con-
crete is used for most structures. Experience shows that brick str-uctures in
the southern districts are vulnerable to deterioration from salinity. Sluice
structures ,iave been standardized in Bangladesh with 5 ft x 6 ft openings,
and the required number of vents is fixed by providing adequate capacity at
0.25 ft differential head. Foundation conditions for all structures would be
carefully examined to provide safe designs. These investigations have not
been completed for the appraised subprojects except for a few works of the
Kalaroa subproject where peat layers about six feet thick have been found in
two cases. All civil works construction would meet current BWDB specifica-
tions, which are satisfactory to IDA.



-17-
III* PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
Institutional Arrangements
3.01    BWDF would be the principal implementing agency, responsib'le for the
design, construction, ^- and M of all project works. Through the concerned
Member, BWDB would provide timely decisions and support for project implemen-
tation. For the construction of irrigation and drainage ditches, the cost of
which is to be borne by the farmers, IMP will provide necessary assistance.
A Project Planning Schemes III Directorate (PPS III) has been established
under the Chief Engineer, Planning I (see Chart 25490), which would be
responsible for the coordination of planning and implementation. A Director
heads this oLganization. A design cell has been created within PPS III which
has commenced preparation of detailed design. BWDB has posted two Deputy
Di.ectors, four Assistant Engineers, two Draftsmen, and two Tracera to this
cell. The local and expatriate consultants (paTa 2.16) would work with the
design cell and assure the quality of designs. Currently, assistance is
being given by the consultants who prepared the ten feasibility studies;
their contract is being extended up to December 31, 1984. A Committee
appointed by the Bangladesh Planning Commission reviewed the capacity of the
existing BWDB design organization and the possibility of expanding it to
undertake additional work in this Project. The proposed arrangement for
preparing detailed designs is in line with the Committee's recommendation and
is considered adequate. PPS III would be responsible for timely completion
of investigations and detailed designs, implementation of the project accord-
ing to planned targets, and procurement of consultants and equipment for
strengthening BWDB. The zonal Chief Engineers (CE), Superintending Engineers
(SE), and Executive Engineers (EE) would be responsible for construction, 0
and M, and financial control. BWDB's capacity to implement small schemes has
improved in recent years and BWDB needs only limited help fox implementing
the project. The project would help to further strengthen its implementing
capability by providing: (a) local and expatriate consultants to assist in
preparing subproject feasibility studies, detailed engineering design, con-
struction supervision, and evaluation of project impact; (b) training of
technical staff; and (c) additional design equipment and transport vehicles
(para 2.16). For the Pilot 0 and M Decentralized Program, BWDB would post
one EE with required support staff (about 200) in each of the four designated
divisions (para 2.17). Each division would be subdivided into three units
headed by Subdivisional Engineers. Administratively the staff would report
to the concerned SE and zonal CE in the line organization (see Chart 25828),
and technically to the Member 0 and M. This decentralized 0 And M staff
would be responsible for the management of all BWDB operating schemes located
within their jurisdiction.
3.02   The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and BRDB would support the project
through IP and other on-going extension, cooperative, and credit programs to
assure additional benefits over and above those resulting from the creation



-18-
of infrastructure (The subprojects consider the increase in production due to
infrastructure only - para 5.01.). This would be particularly important in
those areas where flood control and drainage is envisioned, requiring com-
plementary on-farm development and financing of LLPs and TWs for irrigation.
In the subproject areas, GOB would make adequate provision for:
(a) organization of Thana Central Cooperative Associations (TCCA) and/or
other farmers' organizations; (b) credit to farmers for on-farm development
and the pur',hase of LLPs and TWs, if required; and (c) strengthening the
agricultural extension service, wherever needed.
Coordination at the National Level
3.03    The existing Departmental Project Evaluation Committee in the Divi-
sion of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control (IWDFC) would coor-
dinate project implementation. This committee is chaired by the Secretary
IWDFC, and its members include Joint Secretary IWDFC, Chairman BWDB, and
representatives of the National Planning Commission, External Resources
Committee, Finance Division, and Establishment Division. Assurance was
obtained from GOB that representatives of other concerned depart-
ments/agencies such as BRDB, BADC, DAE, Department of Fisheries (DOF), and
Ministry of Local Government would be invited to participate in the commit-
tee's meetings regarding the project. For this purpose, an adminietrative
order would be issued by ItDFC by July 1, 1984.  The committee would give
final rpproval for the selection oE subprojects, assure adequate assis-
tance/participation from all agencies, and resolve problems involving policy
issues that may arise during implementation.
Coordination at the Field Level
3.04    To encourage active participation of the farmers at all stages of
project planning and implementation, a Polder Committee would be established
for each subproject. Such a Committee would consioL of the Chairmen of the
Union Parishads where the polder is located, at least two KSS managers, the
Upazila based support staff of DAE, BRDB, BADC, DOF, etc., BWDB's Engineer
responsible for the polder area, and several farmers. In general, the Com-
mittee would irclude 40% representatives from local bodies, 20% from coopera-
tives, and 40% Government officials. This Committee would be headed by an
elected official, e.g. the Chairman of the Upazila Parishad. The Thana
Circle Development Officer (or the future Thana Commissioner) would act as
Secretary. The Committee would be used as a forum to:
(a) disseminate information on planning, implementation, 0 and M
of the subproject and seek farmers' reactions and consent;
(b)  seek the active participation of farmers in 0 and M of
subprojects;



* 19-
(c) discuss and oversee agricultural field demonstrations sthowing
farmers how co adapt their cropping patterns and practices to
reduced flood levels and expanded irrigation facilities; and
(d)  take other necessary actions in support of the subproject's
objectives and to resolve problems arising during implementation.
Experierce with similar comnittees ("Embankment Comnmittees") under the El?
(para 1.14) has generally been positive. Hence, a Polder Committee, as
described above, would be established for each subproject before finalization
of feasibility studies, or before commencement of construction where
feasibility studies are already completed.
Procedures for Subproject Implemer.tation
3.05    BWDB would a4opt the following procedures for selection, evaluation,
approval, and implementation of subprojects,,
(a)  BWDB's field BEs wouli identify potential schemes (satisfying the
criteria for selection given in Annex 2.2) in full consultation
with the Chairman of the Upazila Parishad.  The Polder Committee
(para 3.04) would be. for-med immediately after the identification
of a scheme and would approve the document (on an agreed proforma)
giving the subproject concept, prepared by the EE for submission
to the Director PPS III.
(b)  The Director PPS III would obtain approval of the appropriate
authority for preparing the detailed feasibility study of the
subproject. Wherever the identified subproject may affect the
flow of internatio,.al streams, appropriate agreement between
the countries concerned would be necessary if IDA financing is
desired. Thereatter the field EEs would be responsible for all
field surveys and investigations fer draft feasibility plans and
cost estimates for selected subprojects.
(c)  Feasibility studies would be prepared by the Director PPS II
and consultants based on data and plans supplied by field EEs.
Alternatives would be studied. Any departure from the selection
guidelines (para 2.04) would be fully explained.
(d)  Subproject feasibility reports would be sent to IDA.  Simul-
taneously, acceptance of the subproject by GOB for implementation
would be obtained when subprojects meet the guide,ines fully;
otherwise IDA concurrence would be awaited. Subprojects costing
up to Tk 5.0 M would be approved by the Chairman of BWDB. The
Secretary of IWDFC on behalf of the Departmental Project
Evaluation Committee would approve or arrange approval by the
appropriate authority for subprojects wA'th higner costs.



-20-
(e)  Finalization of contracts for civil works would be the
responsibility of field EEs. These EEs would be responsible for
layouts of works, construction supervision, and administration of
contracts. Assistance in specification control and planning of
implementation would be provided by PPS III and consultants. In
case of irrigation subprojects, IMP would assure formation of
farmers groups for each offtakes and arrange for availability of
land, materials and labor for executing the on-farm development
work under the technical supervision of the field EEs.
The implementation of the Pilot Decentralized 0 and M Program would be the
responsibility of the Member 0 and M of BWDB. He would prepare the work
program for each of the four pilot areas (para 2.17), arrange posting of
staff, issue detailed 0 and M instructions for each scheme, determine
requirement of funds and arrange allotment thereof.
Operation and Maintenance of Subprojects
3.06    Proper 0 and M of completed works would be essential for continued
protection against the risks of flooding and drought (in case of irrigation
subprojects) to induce farmers to use adequate inputs to optimize production.
BWDB is now responsible for 0 and M.  All maintenance operations are
labor-intensive and are carried out through petty contracts. BWDB staff: (a)
operate the sluice gates for draining surplus water or admitting river water
into the khals, (b) run primary irrigation pumps, and (c) regulate offtakes
for field channels. The decision to open or close gates on khals is
generally made by local Sluice Committees on which farmers are represented.
Satisfactory 0 and M has not been possible on water sector projects due to
insufficient funding and greater attention given by BWDB staff to construc-
tion activities. GOB intends to make 0 and M of small sub-projects (as
included in this project) the responsibility of beneficiaries to be
administered through the responsible Upazila, but details have yet to be
worked out. This is a desirable approach towards 0 and M. Such transfer of
O and M responsibility would, however, take time and until it is completed
BWDB would continue to be responsible. To accelerate the transfer, assuran-
ces have been obtained from GOB that a program for gradually turning over the
O and M responsibility of the subprojects to the Upazila administration would
be prepared and furnished to IDA for comments by January 1, 1986. Assurances
have also been obtained that adequate funds would be allocated for the 0 and
M requirements of the subprojects, wqhich are estimated to rise to about Tk 45
million by FY90. Meanwhile, in view of GOB's current financial constraints,
the IDA credit would include some 0 and M financing (about Tk 50.0 M) during
the implementation period (para 4.03 and Table 4.2).



-21-
Implementation Schedule
3.07    The project implementation period would be five years (FY85 to FY89).
Detailed designs for the first six subprojectB would be completed prior to
the beginning of the FY85 construction season. Construction would start on
these six subprojects in the first year, about eight in the second year, nine
in the third year, and four in the fourth year. The construction season in
Bangladesh extends from October to June. During the rest of the year, rivers
are in flood stage and frequent rains create difficult construction problems.
Since individual works are small and would be implemented under separate
contracts, the status of final design for the first year's construction
program is satisfactory. Land acquisition would be expedited through
inter-ministry coordination. Land acquisition procedures allow taking over
of land for starting construction pending payment of compensation. Physical
possession of land can be taken soon after the notification for acquisition
based on detailed design layout. BWDB has tAken steps to reallocate funds
required for land acquisition for the first year's construction program. To
assure commencement of implementation in October 1984, completion of detailed
designs and land acquisition for the first year's subprojects would be a
condition of credit effectiveness and assurances have been obtained from GOB
that in the following years the necessary land would be acquired ahead of
the respective construction seasons. The project implemention schedule is
given in Chart 25587.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.08    Discussions are underway between GOB, IDA, and UNDP regarding TA in
support of central monitoring of development projects. Improved central
monitoring is not likely to reduce the need for project level monitoring and
evaluation; however, it is envisaged that central monitoring would increase
emphasis on evaluation, which would be very desirable. Until such changes
are introduced, ongoing projects would continue to have specific arrangements
for monitoring and evaluation. For this project, monitoring of physical
progress and related costs would be the responsibility of BWDB. The evalua-
tion of the project's direct effects would be done by a consultant (para
2.16), whose first task would be to prepare a detailed proposal outlining how
this would be done.  This proposal would be reviewed by IDA before the con-
sultant would proceed. Assurances have been obtained that GOB would furnish
a detailed plan for carrying out project monitoring and evaluation to IDA for
comments by April 1, 1985.
3.09    The Director PPS III would be responsible for coordinating the work
of the various BWDB units and other agencies, and monitoring project
progress. He would prepare consolidated annual work programs and budgets,
detailing activities at each of the subprojects. These annual work programs
and budgets would be submitted to IDA for review by May 31 for the next
fiscal year. The Director PPS III would monitor project progress through
monthly, quarterly and annual progress reports. These reports would include



-22-
all relevant data on physical and financial progress together with reasons
for deviations, if any, from targets set under annual work programs. Copies
of the quarterly and annual reports would be sent to IDA within 90 days of
the end of each reporting period.
3.10    The nositoring and evaluation of the pilot 0 and M program would be
an essential c.sp*oent of the program. GOB would propose the methodology to
be followed to determine the effectiveness and impact of the program, when
presenting the work program of each pilot division. IDA would review the
proposals and an agreed evaluation technique would be used.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Coltp
4.01    Tie caato of the four appraised subprojects have been worked out on
the bausi of detailed quantities included in the feasibility reports (para.
2.06). Land costs vary from Tk 20,000 to Tk 40,000 per acre, depending upon
proximity to towns and current development of the area. For earthwork relat-
ing to flood protection embankments and excavation of khals, the quantities
were determined from designs meeting the hydraulic requirements, based on
recent surveys. Quantities of work involved in structures were estimated
from type designs, since foundation conditions are not yet fully inves-
tigated. For the irrigation subproject, detailed surveys for the canal
network have still to be done. Since eventual quantities could vary, a
physical contingency of 10% has been added to total base costs. Administra-
tive cost has iaee split into three parts, i.e., site preparation and plan-
ning, detailed designs, and construction supervision. The costs of site
preparation, plsanirig and design have been estimated on the basis of works
involved while the cost of construction supervision is estimated to amount to
about 10% of the civil works cost excluding cost of land. The unit rates for
different items of work are based on local inquiries of prevalent rates as
well as the senctioned schedule of rates for each district. The cost of the
Pilot Decentralized 0 and M Program is based on an average requirement of 200
staff in a division and about Tk 6.0 million annually per division for
energy, nmterials, and labor.
4.02    Total project cost is estimated to be US$58.0 M, with a foreign
exchangae cnmaoirnt of US$14.0 M or 24%. Estimates are based on mid-1983
prices, adfswted to the expected time of credit negotiations, and include
US$2.7 M In taxee and duties. Price contingencies are estimated as follows:
years one to three, 8%; and years four and five, 7.5% for domestic inflation
(based on the anticipated increase of agvicultural labor rates); and year
one, 9.5%; year two, 8.7%; year three, 7%; and years four and five, 6% for
international inflation. Details on project costs are given in Annex 4.1;
a summary is in Table 4.1.



-23-
Table 4.1t Cost Summary by Components
Tk Million             US$ Million      Percent of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total  Dase Costs
Flood Control and
Drainage             121.2   27.1    148.3    4.8    1.1       5.9      14.1
Drainage               107.0   44.1    151.1    4.3    1.8       6.1      14.4
Flood Control          166.8   43.6    210.4    6.7    1.7       8.4      20.0
Irrigation             198.3   69.7    268.0    7.9    2.8    10.7        25.5
Strengthening BWDB    205.9   66.7    272.6    8.2    2.7    10.9         26.0
Base Costs             799.2  251.2   1050.4   31.9   10.1    42.0       100.0
Phys. Contingencies    79.9   25.1    105.0    3.2    1.0        4.2      10.0
Price Contingencies   220.9   73.5    294.4    8.9    2.9    11.8         28.0
Total Project Costs  1100.0  349.8   1449.8   44.0   14.0    58.0        138.0
Financing
4.03    The proposed IDA credit of SDR 40.2 M (US$41.5 M) vould finance 75%
of total project cost net of taxes and duties. UNDP is expected to finance
the TA and training (US$2.3 M). GOB and farmers would cover resaining
project costs, including taxes and duties (US$14.2 M), with farmers bearing
the cost of on-farm development comprising irrigation ditches ad field
drains. The source of funds for these investments by the farmers would be
established at the feasibility stage. The approval of the Project Proforma
by GOB and the fi;lfillment of all conditions of effectiveness of the UNDP
project document would be conditions of credit effectiveness. IDA would
finance 0 and M costs of subprojects on a declining basis: 100% la the first
year after completion, 60% in the second, and 30% in the third year, which
would average about 75,' of total 0 and M costs during the fiv*-year project
period. For the pilot 0 and M program, IDA would finance 80Z of the actual
cost of maintenance and operation. IDA would also finance, as retroactive
financing, a portion of the cost of preparatory work (para 3.07), iiwely the
cost of investigations, surveys, and preparation of detailed designs for the
first year's subprojects incurred between appraisal and credit signing, as



-24-
only the on-going consultancy for feasibility studies and limited assistance
in detailed design is financed under Cr. 1124-BD.  This retroactive financiig
would amount to about US$0.3 M (about 1% of the credit). The proposed
flnancing plan is in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: Financing Plan (TK Million)
IDA Share
Expenditure CategorL                 GOB  Farmers  IDA   UNDP   Total        %
Investigations and Surveys            -       -     10.1   -       10.1     100
Land Aquistion                       145.7   37.2    -     -      182.9       0
Civil Works                          39.3   41.8  594.2   -       675.3      90
Equipment                            18.0    -      71.4   -       89.4      80
Technical Assistance and Training    -        -      -    57.1    57.1         0
Engineering and Admin'stration        -       -     88.8   -       88.8     100
Recurrent (O and M) Costs
(a) Subprojects                     17.7    -      53.4   -       71.1      75
(b) Pilot Program                   55.5    -    219.6   -       275.1      80
TOTAL                               276.2   79.0 1037.5  57.1  1449.8        72
U.S. $ Equivalent (million)           11.0    3.2   41,5   2.3    58.0
Percent                               19.1    5.4   71.6   3.9    100
Procurement
4.04    The project would require procurement for civil works, investigations
and surveys, equipment, 0 and M, and consultants. Procurement procedures
would be:
(a)  Civil Works (US$27.0 M including contingencies) are relatively
simple, mostly small and scattered. Procurement would therefore
be unsuitable for international competitive bidding (ICB).
Assurances have been obtained from GOB that contractors for
civil works construction would be selected under LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Contracts for earthwork would be awarded
in reaches, while each major structure would generally have a
separate contract. BWDB has recently decided to include
the supply of construction materials in the contracts for
structures. This is a departure from its earlier practice of
supplying materials from BWDB stores. This new procedure is
acceptable to IDA. The different types of gates needed for the
structures would be included in the civil works contracts. For



-25-
works costing the equivalent of US$150,000 or more, tender
documents would be sent to IDA for review before bids are
invited, and bid evaluations before the contract is awarded.
For all other works, bid evaluation repo.rts together with the
contracts would be furnished to IDA before reimbursement is
sought.
(b)  Investigations and Surveys (US$0.4 M) work would be procured
through force account as well as contract. BWDB staff would
carry out topographical surveys. Collection and testing of
samples for necessary investigations would be done either through
force account or under contract awarded under LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA.
(c)  Equipment (US$3.6 M) is of two types:  (i) primary pumping
equipment for irrigation; and (ii) other (i.e., transport, office
and construction) equipment. Spares amounting to about 0l of
the equipment value would be procured with the equipment.
Generally, all equipment would be procured folLowing ICB
procedures consistent with the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits". Details
are given in the Procurement Schedules (Annex 4.2). For
procurement under ICB, a preference limited to 15% of the CIF
price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 for each
contract, which are needed urgently, may be procured after
comparing prices from not less than three Independent suppliers
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Such
procurement would not exceed a cumulative total of US$50,000.
Tender documents and advertising procedures for all ICB
procurements would be reviewed by IDA before issuance by BWDB,
and bid evaluations would be reviewed by IDA before the contracts
are awarded.  Assurances have been obtained from GOB that all
equipment would be procured following ICB and LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA.
(d)  Operation of completed subproject works would be done by BWDB
personnel (until Upazila administration takes over) while
maintenance of works would be done under contracts awarded
following procedures acceptable to IDA. Operation and main-
tenance under the pilot 0 and N program would also be carried
out in this manner.



-26-
(e)  Consultants would be engaged for:  (a) preparing feasibility
studies of the remaining subprojects; (b) detailed design of
works and construction supervision; as welL as (c) examining
the impact of the project on production and social conditions;
and (d) advising under the Pilot Decentralized 0 and M Program.
There would be two consultancy contracts; one for feasibility
studies, detailed designs, construction supervision, and advlce
for 0 and M, and one for evaluating the impact of selected
subprojects. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that
appointment of suitably qualified consultants would be in
accordance with principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Baak Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", as published by the
Bank in August 1981.
4.05    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3 beLow:
Table 4.3: Procurement Procedures (US$ million)
Procurement Method
Project Element        ICB         LCB       Other        Total Cost
lnvest igat ions
and Surveys           -          0.2        0.2            0.4
(0.2)     (0.2)          (0.4)
Land Acquisition        -           -         7.3            7.3
Civil Works             -         27.0         -            27.0
(23.8)                   (23.8)
Equipment              3.6                     -             3.6
(2.9)                                (2.9)
Technical Assistance   -            -         2.3            2.3
Engineering and
Administration        -           -         3.5            3.5
(3.5)          (3.5)
0 and M                             -        13.9           13.9
(10.9)        (10.9)
TOTAL                  3.6        27.2       27.2           58.0
(2.9)     (24.0)    (14.6)          (41.5)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be
financed by IDA.
Disbursement
4.06    Disbursements from the proposed IDA, credit would cover:
(a)  100% of expenditures for investigations and surveys;



-27-
(b)  94% of contract expenditures for civil works;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported irrigation
pumping, construction, transport, and design equipment,
including spares;
(d)  100% of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured within
the country, or 65X of local expenditures (off-the-shelf);
(e)  100% of expenditure on administration and engineering of
subprojects during the construction period, which would be
based on 12% of the contracted civil works costs;
(f)  100% of subproject 0 and M costs in the first year after
completion, 60% in the second year, and 30% in the third year;
80% of the cost of the pilot 0 and M program.
Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal applications
except for items (e), (f) and the portion of item (a) carried out by force
account. For these three items, applications would be supported by certified
statements of expenditure. The actual documentation would be retained by
BWDB at a central location and made available for review to IDA repre-
sentatives on request. In addition, this documentation would be subject to
audit.
4.07    The estimated schedule of expenditures, over the five-year project
period plus an initial year, the proposed allocation of the credit and
schedule of disbursements are given in Annex 4.3.  The disbursement profile
for the subprojectis is essentially based on the experience of the Small Scale
Drainage and Flood Control Project (Cr. 955-BD), modified to reflect the
anticipated sequence of subproject implementation, and the assumption that
disbursements for work done in a quarter would be completed in the next
quarter. Disbursements against subprojects in the quarters ending March 31
and June 30 would be large, exceeding US$3.0 M in the second, third, and
fourth year of the project. In the other two quarters, disbursements would
be about US$1.0 M. This pattern is due to concentration of civil works in
the six-month period from October to March. Disbursement for the pilot 0 and
M program would be almost at a uniform rate.
Project Special Account
4.08    Project works are to be carried out by a large number of small con-
tractors whose efficiency often depends upon the speed at which they receive
payment for completed work. Payments are frequently delayed on BWDB projects
due to the long time taken by the BWDB head office in transferring funds to
field EUs. Such delays mainly arise from lack of funds with BWDB. To remove
this impediment, a Project Special Account (PSA) would be established, for
the implementation of the subprojectS only, in a Dhaka commercial bank into



-28-
which periodic IDA payments would be made. This account would be simlilar to
the revolving funds used under the IDA-assisted Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control Project (Credit 955-BD) and Second Drainage and Flood Control
Project (Credit 1184-BD). It would, however, be operated somewhat dif-
ferently in order to meet the requirements of: (a) prompt payment to contrac-
tors for work done, (b) avoiding depletion of funds during the construction
season (October to June), and (c) preventing the build-up of large unused
balances during the rest of the year. Each project year, the official(s)
authorized by GOB to operate the PSA would request IDA to deposit credit
advances into the PSA amounting to three months' requirements on the basis of
the agreed construction program.  Payments into the PSA would be made in such
a way that the available balance would stay under US$3 14 during the construc-
tion season, corresponding to IDA's contribution for various works under the
project in a three-month period, and under US$0.5 M during the remaining
three months. GOB would submit withdrawal applications to IDA for the
amounts drawn from the PSA within one month of their withdrawal. These
applications would serve to record the utilization of the credit advances,
but no actual reimbursement would be made into the PSA. Each withdrawal
application would be supported by a statement from the bank in which the PSA
is kept showing disbursements made during the preceding month and closing
balance.  Assurances have been obtained from GOB that in operating the Spe-
cial Account BWDE would follow procedures satisfactory to IDA.  The opening
of the account would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Accounts and Audit
4.09    BWDB would maintain records adequate to identify physical progress
and financial transactions relating to the project. Separate accounts would
be kept for all expenditures for which credit withdrawals would be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure (para 4.06). Auditors acceptable to
IDA would audit the project accounts each year. The auditors' report would
be sent to IDA within nine months of the close of each fiscal year. The
auditors' report would include an opinion as to whether the credit funds
disbursed against statements of expenditure had been used for the purposes
for which they were provided. Currently, BWDB's accounts are prepared
separately for each project according to Financial Handbooks and are audited
by its internal Directorate of Audits and the Government Auditor.  This
procedure is satisfactory to IDA. Audit reports on the accounts of on-going
IDA projects do not point out any major deficiency in the accounting system.
Assurance has been obtained from GOB that the accounting and auditing
requirements outlined above would be met.



-29-
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, FARM INCOME, COST RECOVERY
Production
5,0l    The project would increase crop production on about 225,000 ac, which
are now affected by flooding and inadequate drainage in the monsoon season
and lack of irrigation supplies in the dry season. The projected production
levels would be achieved with existing irrigation equipment and without major
changes in the availability of extension advice. Project works would create
cropping conditions that would encourage beneficiaries to adopt improved
farming practices, including shifts from broadcasting to transplanting paddy,
use of high yielding instead of low yielding local paddy varieties, dry
season cultivation, supplemental irrigation during the wet season, and the
increased input use these changes would require. Without the project, only
modest production gains are expected, resulting from small yield increases
due to extension efforts and farmers' own initiative to improve their cul-
tivation practices.
5.02    Present and estimated future cropping patterns for the four appraised
subprojects are shown in Annex 5.1. All are dominated by paddy, and changes
in paddy cultivation are the most important effect the project is expected to
have. In flood control and drainage subprojects, 1/ where some irrigation
equipment is already used, the main impact would be the introduction of
T. Aman (HYV), followed by some expansion of T. Aus (HYV) and wheat cultiva-
tion. In irrigation subprojects, farmers would be able to start dry season
cultivation of Boro (IiYV) and grow T. Aman (HYV) with supplemental irrigation
in the monsoon season. Cropping intensities are expected to increase from
138% at present to 163% in flood control and drainage subprojects, and from
133% to 166% in irrigation subprojects.
5.03    Expected yield increases with the project are moderate, not exceeding
10X for most crops (see Annex 5.2). Thus, the projected production increases
would result chiefly from shifts in cropping patterns and higher cropping
intensities. Estimates of present and future crop production for the entire
project are extrapolations based on the assumption that unappraised sub-
projects would, on average, produce the same results as the four appraised
subprojects. The incremental project production thus calculated is given in
Table 5.1.
I/ Also covers drainage only and flood control only subprojects.



-30-
Table 5.1: Incremental Crop Production
('000 metric tons)
With      Without
Present    ProJect    ProJect    Incr.
(1)        (2)         (3)      (2-3)
Paddy (L)      117.5       82.0       123.4     -41.4
Paddy (HYV)   106.0       252.4       111.3      141.1
223.5      334.4       234.7       99.7
Wheat            2.0        8.3         2.2        6.1
Jute             6.7        9.6         8.7        0.9
Oilseeds         5.6        8.4         5.6        2.8
Marketing and Prices
5.04    Foodgrain production still falls 10-12% short of domestic require-
ments, necessitating imports which averaged about 1.5 M tons in the past few
years. Therefore, marketing of the project's incremental paddy and wheat
production is not expected to pose a problem. Much of the increase is likely
to be absorbed within the producing areas. Surpluses would be handled by the
traditional marketing system, which is well developed. Farmers could also
use the Government' s procurement system. The relatively small additional
output of oilseeds and jute would also be absorbed without difficulty.
5.05    Crop prices in Bangladesh are largely determined by the supply situa-
tion and vary significantly between locations and seasons, and between years.
In an attempt to stabilize prices, GOB intervenes in foodgrain marketing
through its procurement operations, offering guaranteed prices for rice and
wheat--so far with limited success. Market prices may substantially exceed
official prices in periods of poor harvests, as in FY32 and the first half of
FY83; conversely, they often fall below the procurement prices in times of
fBvorable weather and high production, as in FY81, in part because of a
shortage of storage facilities in the main procurement regions. In the
absence of true farmgate prices, procurement prices have been used for paddy
and wheat in the farm budget analysis. Prices of other crops and farm inputs
are based on prevailing market prices.



-31-~
Farm Income
5.06    Illustrative farm budgets have beer prepared for a typical 3-acre
owner-operated farm in a flood control and drainage and an irrigation sub-
project for the present and the future with and without project. The crop-
ping patterns are broadly based on the Kangsha and Chenchuri subprojects. A
summary is given in Table 5.*; details are in Annnex 5.2.
5.07    In a flood control and drainage subproject, net production value (in
constant FY84 prices) of a farm is estimated to rise from Tk l0,960 to Tk
14,830 at full development 1/ (+35%), while without the project there would
only be an increase to Tk 11,580 (46%).  Net production value per man-day
would rise from Tk 48 to Tk 56 with the project, and net production value per
capita from Tk 1,890 to Tk 2,560.
5.08    In an irrigation subproject, net production value per farm is
projected to double from Tk 7,560 to Tk 15,130 at full development, ll
whereas without project it would only increase to about Tk 7,830 (+4%). Net
production value per man-day would rise from Tk 39 to Tk 58, and net produc-
tion value per capita from Tk 1,300 to Tk 2,610.
5.09    The with and without project comparison shows that a farming family
operating a 3-acre farm in a flood control and drainage sitbproject would have
an incremental annual income of TK 3,250. The 0 and M costs of the sub-
project would amount to Tk 190 per farm, or about 6% of the incremental
income. In an irrigation subproject, the incremental annual income of a
family operating a 3-acre farm would be Tk 7,300. The subproject 0 and M
costs, including energy charges for pumping, would amount to Tk 1,950 per
farm, or about 27% of the incremental income. The family would also have to
invest about Tk 10,000 for the on-farm development. Most of this is expected
to be in the form of contributed labor and land. Even if they borrowed
a portion of the amount, there would be sufficient incentive to go for
irrigation.
1/  Full development anticipated in five years after completion of a sub-
project.



-32-
Table 5.2: Summary Farm Budgets (3 acre farm; constant FY84 prices)
Flood Control and Drainage
Subprojects 1/             Irrigation Subprojects
With     Without                 With    Without
Present   Project   Project    Present   Project  Project
Cropped Area (ac)    4.15          4.9      4.15         4.0        5.0       4.0
Gross Production
Value (Tk)          13,450      19,550    14,070       8,920    19,190    9,190
Input Costs (Tk)    2,490        4,720     2,490       1,360      4,060    1,360
Agrochemicals   (   540)   ( 1,790)  (   540)    (   70)  ( 1,470)  (   70)
Net Production
Value (Tk)          10,960      14,830    11,580       7,560    15,130    7,830
Paddy (L)        ( 4,740)   ( 2,560)  ( 5,020)    (5,020)  ( 2,340)  (5,270)
Paddy (HYV)      ( 5,650)   (10,230)  ( 5,990)    (  -  )  ( 9,590)  (  -  )
Wheat                -  )   ( 1,330)       -  )    (  120)  (   530)  (  140)
Jute             (   320)   (   340)  (   320)    (  400)  C   430)  (  400)
Oilseeds         (   250)   (   370)  (   250)    (2,020)  ( 2,240)  (2,020)
Net Product ion
Value (Tk)
Per Cropped Acre  2,640        3,030     2,790       1,890      3,030    1,960
Per iMan-day 2/       48          56        50          39         58        41
Per Capita  3/    1,890        2,560     2,000       1,300      2,610    1,350
1/  Includes drainage only and flood control only subprojects.
2/ Of family labor.
3/ Average family size is 5.8 persons.



-33-
Cost Recovery
5.10    Until the promulgation of the Irrigation Water Rate Ordinance 1983
(July 1983), farmers were required to pay water charges amounting to 3% of
the gross value of production from irrigated lands. Although BWDB personnel
prepared statements of farmers' payment obligations based on at-site
estimates of production value, actual collect4on was insignificant. GOB now
aims to recover .he 0 and M costs of gravity irrigation projects only. The
rules and regulations under the Water Rate Ordinance are acceptable to IDA.
GOB proposes to charge the beneficiaries on the basis of crop areas
irrigated, the applicable rates varying from season to season. BWDB would
continue to be responsible for assessing payment obligations. The rates for
the first year are expected to cover about 35% of 0 and M. A condition of
credit effectiveness would be that water rates have been set and come into
effect at levels satisfactory to IDA. The GoveruLnent (a) would gradually set
water rates at levels sufficient to enable BV'DB to recover from the
beneficiaries of its gravity irrigation schemes inereasing portions of the
cost of 0 and M and (b) cause BWDB to improve its collection procedures, all
in accordance with a program satisfac- .y to IDA, with the view to recover
the cost of 0 and M by July 1, 1900. A condition of effectiveness would be
that such a program had been furnished to IDA.
5.11    As for flood control and drainage subprojecta, GOB's current view,
which is accepted by IDA, is that cost recovery is not feasible at this
stage. While it is possible to determine aggregate benefits derived from
such subprojects or average per acre benefits, it would be difficult to
design and enforce a cost recovery scheme geared to farmer's ability to pay
in a situation where they experience widely varying cutitvation risks,
depending on the location and quality of their land. On the other hand,
imposing charges based on average conditions would not be equiteble. Since
land values are likely to reflect differences in productivity, a betterment
tax would be a more feasible means of achieving cost recovery in this type
of subproject. However, due to the absence of an effective land taxation
system in Bangladesh this alternative is not practicable at present.
5.12    The rules and regulations under the Water late Ordinance have been
promulgated in January 1984. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that
water rates on gravity irrigation systems and collections would be taised
periodically to reach levels sufficient to finance increasing portions of an
agreed 0 and M program for such systems in order to achieve full 0 and M cost
recovery by July 1, 1990.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Production and Employment
6.01    The project would raise crop production and farm incomes through
improvements in the water regime on about 225,000 ac. Over 80,000 farm
families, or nearly 480,000 people, would directly benefit from the project.



-34-
Their present per capita incomes of about US$70-100 eqiivalent compare with
a rural poverty income level of US$110 (World Bank estimates) and a per
capita GNP of US$140 (World Bank Atlas 1983). Incremental farm employment
would reach about 5.9 M man-days at full development (project year 10 and
later)--an increase of about 30% over the present situation. Demand for
hired farm labor would more than double in flood control and drainage sub-
projects and increase almost tenfold in irrigation subprojects, providing
employment opportunities for the 39,000 landless families who live in the
project area.
6.02    The project is expected to have limited net effect on the environ-
ment. Flood control subprojects would have some adverse impact on: (a) soil
fertility due to the elimination of soil nutrients brought by floods;
(b) beel fishing due to lacking replenishment of fry and fingerlings; and
(c) boat transport on khals due to construction of sluice structures at the
confluence with rivers. Additional use of manure, periodic fingerling seed-
ings, and load transfer from khsal boats to river boats would be necessary
actions to offset these effects, which will involve only limited expense and
the beneficiaries have indicated a willingness to take. On the other hand,
the environment would improve from the reduced duration of flooding, improved
access and reduced damage to property. Drainage subprojects would have a
beneficial effect by reducing areas with high moisture, thus lessening the
adverse impact on human and animal health. Irrigation subprojects would
replenish groundwater, decreasing the possibility of wells running dry.
Economic Analysis
6.03    The economic rates of return (IRR) of the four appraised subprojects
are shown in Table 6.1. Based on the assumption that on average the unap-
praised subprojects would produce the same results, the rate of return for
the project as a whole is about 30%. At a discount rate of 12%, the assumed
opportunity cost of capital in Bangladesh, the project's economic net present
value would be Tk 1.26 billion (US$50.5 million). Economic benefits and
costs have been valued in constant FY84 terms. The main assumptions underly-
ing the economic analysis are as follows:
(a) Project Life: Thirty years, with full development reached in
project year 10 (PY94).
(b) Prices: Farmgate prices for internationally traded goods are based
on the latest (July 1983) IBRD commodity price forecasts (Annex
6.1), while those for nonr-traded goods are based on domestic
financial prices. It is expected that over the next few years
Bangladesh will become a net exporter of urea. Therefore, an
import parity price is used through 1990, and an export parity
price for later years.  Domestic prices and price components have
been translated into border prices using a standard conversion
factor of 0.83.



-35-
(C) Project Costs: All subproject investment and 0 and M costs and
the cost of strengthening BWDB, except the cost of the Pilot
Decentrali4ed 0 and M Program, have been taken into rccount.
The estimates are net of taxes and allowances for inflation, but
incl-ude physical contingencies. Crop production costs have been
adjusted to reflect realistically the staggered occurrence of
costs and resulting benefits. Local costs have been expressed
in border Taka by applying a standard conversion factor of 0.83.
(d) Project Benefits: Benefits consist of expected incremental crop
production described in Chapter V. In each completed subproject,
projected changes in cropping patterns and yields would take
about five years.
Table 6.1: Rates of Return of Appraised Subprojects
Kangsha River Flood Control and Drainage               35%
Kalaroa Drainage                                       40%
Bighai River Flood Control                             26%
Chenchuri Irrigation                                   21%
Sensitivity and Risks
6.04    The sensitivity of the project to changes in benefits and costs has
been tes'-ed using swit.:ning values as a measure. 1/ The rezults show that
at a discoint rate of 12% (the assumed opportunity cost of capital) total
costs could rise about 70% or total benefits fall about 40% without making
the project economically unacceptable. At a discount rate of 20%, the return
required by the guidelines for subproject selection, the scope for changes in
total project costs or benefits is of course less ample, but still quite
comfortable. The same holds for three of the four appraised subprojects.
Details are in Table 6.2. Further tests show that with costs up 20% and
benefits down 10%, or with costs up 10% and benefits lagged one year, the
project's IRR would still be about 20%, while a three-year lag in benefits
vould reduce it to 15%. Economic benefits and costs are given in Annex 6.2.
1/ The switching value is the value of the variable tested for which the
project's net present value is zero, or for which the project's rate of
return (IRR) is equal to the discount rate (usually the opportunity cost
of capital).



-36-
Table 6.2: Switching Values of Benefits and Costs (%)
Benefits   Costs
Discount Rate 12%
Kangsha River Flood Control and Drainage                 -46         85
Kalaroa Drainage                                         -48         91
Bighai River Flood Control                               -38         60
Chenchuri Irrigation                                     -30         42
Total Project                                            -42         72
Discount Rate 20%
Kangsha River Flood Control and Drainage                 -33         50
Kalaroa Drainage                                         -37         60
Bighai River Flood Control                               -18         22
Chenchuri Irrigat.on                                     - 3          3
Total Project                                            -26         35
6.05    Implementation delays, particularly due to land acquisition, are a
risk facing the project. Therefore, land acquisition for the first year's
construction program (six subprojects) would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness, and assurances hove been obtained from GOB that in the followqng
years the necessary land would be acquired ahead of the respective construc-
tion seasons. Another risk is that subprojects would be undertaken without
the full support of the population concerned. To minimize this risk, the
subproject selection guidelines require that beneficiaries indicate strong
general support and be prepared to participate in implementation and sub-
sequent 0 and M of subprojects. Moreover, the IDA credit would include 0 and
M funding (on a declining scale), and assurances have been obtained from GOB
that adequate budgetary provision for subproject 0 and M is made during
implementation as well as in the post-project period.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01    Assurances have been obtained from GOB that:
(a)  in irrigation subprojects, BWDB would design and lay out the
on-farm irrigation and drainage system and, upon farmers'
agreement to bear its cost, supervise its construction
(para 2.03; Sec 3.07 (a) DCA);



-37-
(b) BWDB would apply the guidelines for the selection of subprojects
given in this report (para 2.05; Sec 3.02 DCA);
(c) consultants for feasibility studies, detailed design and construction
supervision would be in place by January 1, 1985 (para 2.16; Sec 3.03
DCA);
(d) a program of work for the first of the divisions in the Pilot
Decentralized 0 and M Program would be furnished to IDA by January 1,
1985, and programs for the three remaining divisions by July 1, 1985
(para 2.17; Sec 3.08 DCA);
(e) representatives of other agencies concerned with project implementa-
tion would be included in the meetings regarding the project of the
Departmental Project Evaluation Committee within IWDFC (para 3.03;
Sec 3.09 DCA);
(f) a program for gradually handing over the 0 and M of completed sub-
projects to the Upazila administration would be furnished to IDA for
comments by January 1, 1986, and GOB would allocate adequate funds
for the 0 and M of subprojects (para 3.06; Sec 4.02 (b) and Sec 3.01
(b) DCA);
(g) the necessary land acquisition for subprojects to be implemented in
project year two and later would be completed ahead of the respective
construction seasons (para 3.07; Sec 3.06 DCA);
(h) a plan for carrying out project monitoring and evaluation would be
furnished to IDA for comments by April 1, 1985 (para 3.08; Sec 3.05
(c) DCA);
(i) procurement of: (i) all civil works would follow LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA, and (ii) equipment would follow ICB or LCB proce-
dures acceptable to IDA; and (iii) consultants would be appointed in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to IDA (para
4.04; Sec 3.03 and Schedule 3 DCA);
(j) the operation of the Project Special Account would be acceptable to
IDA (para 4.08; Sec 2.02 (b) DCA);
(k) accounting and auditing requirements stipulated under IDA credits
would be met (para 4.09; Sec 4.01 DCA); and
(1) water rates on the gravity irrigation system and collections would
be raised periodically to reach levels sufficient to finance an
increasing portion of an agreed 0 and M program for such systems in



-38-
order to achieve full 0 and M cost recovery by July 1, 1990
(para 5.12; Sec 4.03 DCA).
7.02    Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:  (i) completion of
detailed designs and land acquisition for six subprojects on which construc-
tion is to start in project year one (para 3.07; Sec 6.01 (c) and (d) DCA);
(ii) approval of the Project Proforma by GOB (para 4.03; Sec 6.01 (e) DCA);
(iii) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
UNDP project document and it has been executed and delivered (para 4.03; Sec
6.01 (a) DCA); (iv) opening of the Special Account (para 4.08; Sec 6.01 Sec
6.01 (b) DCA); (v) setting of water rates at a level satisfactory to IDA
(para 5.10; Sec 6.01 (e) DCA); and (vi) preparing a program satisfactory to
IDA for increasing water rates and improving collection procedures (para
5.10; Sec 6.01 (f) DCA).
7.03    With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 40.2 milliun (US$41.5 million) on standard terms. The borrower
would be the People's Republic of Bangladesh.



-39-
Annexes, Charts, Maps



RANGLAD FSH
liWfB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
KANGCSPA RIVER FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE. SII;BPROD.JCT
Climatic Elements - Mymensingh
FLFEM.NT                  APR         MAY     JUNF.   JUTLY    AUCI    SEP      OCT    NOV    DEC   JAN      FEB      MAR
Mean Rainfall             113         297     546      388     400     315      172     14       2    12       16     16
(mm)
Mean Max Temperature        33.8       32.4    31.2    31.3    31.3    31.5    30.7   28.7   26.4  25.2   27.6    32.0
(oC)
Mean Min Temperature        22.0       23.5    25.9    25.7    25.6    25.4    23.8   18.2   13.6  11.6   13.8    18.2
(OC)
Mean Max Relative                              ,
h4umidity   (X)             76         82      87       87      88      85       85     81      84    62     77       73
Mean Min Relative
Humidity   (%)              56         74      81       81      81      82       79     73      67    62     54       49
Average Vapor Pressure      25.4       29.7    32.5    32.A    33.0    32.4    29.0   22.2   17.2  14.5   15.9    20.0
(millibars)
Average Wind Speed           5.2        5.0     5,0      6.0     4.6      3.7     3.0    2.3    1.9   2.3    2.8       3.9
(kmfbr)
Cloudiness                   1.1        1.4     1 .A     1.1     n.4     0 .8     0.4    0.4    0.1   n?    n.5        0.9
(oktas)
Pan Evaporation            133        124      9fi    100       R3       94      q3     73      61    60     75      117
(mm)
I' a



BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCUEMES PROJECT
KALAROA DRAINAGE SUBPROJECT
Climatic Elements - Khulne
ELEIENT                   APR         MAY      JUNE    JULY    AUG      SEP      OCT    NOV    DEC   JAN      FEB      MAR
Mean Rainfall               59        166      292     395      355     301      169     30      18    17       30     43
(mm)
Mean Max Temperature         34.6      34.3    32.6    31.2    31.3    31.7    31.3   29.1   26.7  26.3   29.2    33.4
(oC)
Mean Mlin Temperature        24.2      25.6    26.1    26.2    26.2    26.0    24.3   19.1   14.7  13.6   16.1    21.0
(OC)
Max Relative Humidity                                                                                                         P
(7.)                76         78      83       a6      85       83      78      72     72    73      71      73
Min Relative Humidity
(*)                65        74       82      84       84      83       78     69      67    62      55      55
Average Vapor Pressure       30.0      32.6    34.Z    34.0    33.7    33.4    29.3   21.3   16.8  15.5   17.6    22.9
(millibars)
Average Wind Speed            7.8       8.9      7.4      7.8     6.9      5.6     3.9    3.2    3.0   3.0    3.9       5.8
(kmlhr)
Cloudiness                    3.0       3.2      5.1     5.3      5.1     4.9      3.4    1.6    0.7   0.9    1.5       1.9
(okras)
Pan E_ aporatia u           154       172      103      98       80      89       93     85      74    78      92     136
(mm)
W N
(ima)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t4 t4
I.-



BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHE14ES PROJECT
BIGHAI RIVER FLOOD CONTROL SUBPROJECT
Climatic Elements - Barisal
ELENENT                  APR         MAY     JUNE    JULY    AUG      SEP     OCT    NOV    DEC   JAN      FEB     MAR
Mean Rainfall              90        186     349     476      462     396     199     61     29      5      18     44
(mm)
Mean Max Temperature        33.8      33.4    31.8    30.6    30.8    31.4    31.2   28.8   26.4  25.8   28.3    32.4
Mean Min Temperature        24.2      25.6    25.7    25.8    25.8    25.9    24.3   19.1   14.6  13.4   16.2    20.9  p
(oC)
Max Relative Humidity
(7a)               74        74       83      87      85      83       79     78     78    78      14     /4
Min Relative Humidity
(%)               66        74       82      83      83      82       77     69     64    60     56       56
Average Vapor Pressure      29.5      32.2    33.6    33.3    32.9    33.1    30.1   22.6   17.6  16.0   18.3    23.9
(millibars)
Average Wind Speed           8.4       9.1     8.9     9.1      7.6     6.0     3.0    2.3    1.9   3.5    4.3      6.5
(kmlhr)
Average Sunshine             8.0       7.7     3.7     3.8      3.1     5.8     7.1    8.5    9.4   8.4    8.4      7.9
(hrs/day)
LD t%
I-£



BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
CHENCHURI IRRIGATION SUBPROJECT
Climatic Elements - Jessore
ELEMENT                   APR         MAY      JUNE    JULY    AUG      SEP      OCT    NOV    DEC   JAN      FEB      MAR
Mean Rainfall               50        156      244     359      315     329      140     27      12   .12       11     41
(m)
Mean Max Temperature         35.9      35.2    32.9    31.4    31.6    32.1    31.4   28.8   26.4  25.5   18.4    33.6
(oC)
Mean Min Temperature         23.2      24.9    25.6    25.7    25.7    25.4    22.9   16.6   11.5  10.5   13.3    18.7
(oC)                                                                                                                   w
Max Relative Humidity
(Z)                 75        79       85       86      88       87      84      80     82    81      77      72
Min Relative Humidity
(X)                57        71       82      86       87      86       83     74      74    67      59      52
Average Vapor Pressure       27.6      31.8    33.6    32.8    33.8    33.3    29.3   20.8   16.0  14.8   16.5    21.4
(millibars)
Average Wind Speed           10.2      10.9      8.9     7.6      7.0     5.4      3.3    2.4    2.8   3.2    4.1       6.5
(km/hr)
Cloudiness                   3.4        4.4      6.3     6.6      6.3     5.8      3.9    2.3    1.2   1.3    1.7       2.1
(oktas)
Average Sunshine              8.9       9.7      4.8     5.1      5.7      5.9     8.2    9.3    9.4   9.1    9.5       8.7
(hrs(day)
Pan Evaporation            153        152      114      97       94      85       83     74      63    61      79     128
_ -   2        a        U                          3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



-44-
Annex 2.2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
GUIDELINES FOR SELECTION OF SUBPROJECTS
1.      Location
In accordance with GOB's decision of May 17, 1983, the subprojects
would generally lie in the districts of Jessore, Khulna, Barisal, Patuakhali,
Faridpur, Pabna, Jamalpur, Tangail, Mymensingh, and Sylhet.
2.      Area Characteristics
(a) Flood Control or Drainage
(i) The area under a subproject would generally be the entire
agricultural area surrounded by the river channels, or a
well defined portion thereof separated from the rest by an
existing highway or other embank'ment.
(ii)  The area would not exceed about 20,000 acres nor be smaller
than about 2,500 acres.
(iii) Flooding under average conditions would not exceed 4.5 feet
over 80% of the area.
(iv) The rivers causing floods in the area would not be eroding
the banks or tending to change course.
(v) At least 70% of the farmers in the area would be operating
farms of three acres or less.
(b) Irrigation
(i) The lower and upper area limits would be 1,000 and 10,000
acres.
(ii) The area would already be drained and protected from floods.
Otherwise, the necessary flood control and drainage would
be provided.



-45-
Annex 2.2
Page 2
(iii) The subproject would benefit at least 500 farm families.
At least 70% of the farmers in the area would be operating
farms of 3 acres or less.
3.      Scope of Works
The subproject scope would be to increase food production by protect-
ing the area from flooding, draining the surplus rainfall, or providing water
for the crops in periods of deficient rainfall. The works under the sub-
projects would include embankments with control structures on the khals for
protecting against bank overflow from the surrounding streams, excavation of
khals for increased capacity for drainage, and primary pumping of irrigation
water to irrigation systems delivering water to farmers' fields by gravity.
Bridges on the khals and improvement of existing roads could also be
included. The subprojects would not include drainage pumping, nor pumping
water for irrigation from khals or from groundwater by low lift pumps (1 to 2
efs), nor deep tubewells. The subprojects would not include financing for
agricultural inputs and extension. However, GOB would ensure the provision
of improved and adequate agricultural inputs through other programs.
4.      Project Proposals
(a) The subproject area would be examined in detail for the
infrastructure requirements - flood control, drainage, irrigation, fisheries,
and water transport. The sources of water available for irrigation would be
established. Mleasures for flood control/drainage should not cause majoe
adverse effects on these sources. Storage of surplus rainfall in the
depressions/khals may be necessary or facilities may be required to feed
river water into depressions/khals for irrigation. The scope for reduction
in fishing area (major source of livelihooe of unemployed rural labor) would
be examined while establishing drainage requirements. Facilities may be
necessary for bringing fish from the rivers to the fishing area. Farmers
would be contacted and the dislocation of water transport due to closure of
khals and the availability or feasibility of alternative transport arrange-
ments verified.
(b) Project proposals would assure (along with existing works
wherever available) a complete solution of the particular infrastructure
problem for which the solution is sought. Should part of the proposal comr-
prise an ongoing work financed under another project, the completion program
of this work would be verified to match with the subproject program.
(c) The proposals would not result in redundant structures conse-
quent to future _.mplementation of medium/major projects In the area.
(d) The proposals would not cause significant adverse effects on
adjacent areas.



-46-
Annex 2.2
Page 3
(e) The proposals would involve implementation of all civil and
mechanical works within two construction seasons. Works to be implemented
at farmers' cost would be planned and supervised for completion in the same
period.
(f) The subproject proposals would be discussed with the farmers,
local authorities and representatives of the Agriculture and other depart-
ments specially fisheries. The farmers should be willing partners in the
subproject and be prepared to execute the on-farm developments at their cost
as well as to take over the operation and maintenance after completion of
construction. The source of funds for the farmer's investments would be
established and action would be taken to assure farmers access to these
funds.
(g) The subproject proposals would involve minimum acquisition of
land.
5.      Cost Limits
(i) The base cost of the subproject (excluding physical and price
contingencies) would not exceed the equivalent of US$2.4
million.
(ii) For flood control or drainage or combined flood control and
drainage, the base cost would not exceed the equivalent of
US$150 per acre.
(iii)  For irrigation subprojects, the cost of the system including
on-farm ditches for irrigation/drainage would not exceed the
equivalent of US$400 per acre (about US$250 for the irrigation
system and about US$150 for the on-farm ditches).
6.      Assessment of Benefits
The benefits would be determined by comparing future agricultural
production "with" and "without" the project.  The "without" condition would
be based on about 3 years current production data, if available, and an
assessment of possible future improvements without specific project interven-
tion. Under the "with" condition, the production resulting from high yield-
ing varieties, changes in cropping pattern including the effect of Increased
use of agricultural inputs would be considered attributable to the project.
Where the subproject is based on completion of works in progress, benefits
estimated under those works would not be included in the subproject benefits.
7.      Economic Rate of Return
Minimum rate of return would be 20%.



-4 7-
Annex 2.3
Page I
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
SCOPE OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR SUBPROJECTS
1.      Concultants would be required to assist the Project Planning Schemes
III Directorate of BWDB in:
(i)  screening subprojects, identified by Field EEs for financing
under the project, for meeting the guidelines and technical
viability;
(ii)  preparation of detailed feasibil4ty studies for the selectee
subprojects;
(iii)  finalization of design criteria and preparation of detailed
designs for works under the subprojects approved for
implementation; and
(iv)  construction supervision.
2.      The consultant would preferably be a local consulting firm assisted
by expatriate experts. Such experts would be seconded to the local firm by
an international firm of consultants with Bangladesh experience, or competent
individuals would be engaged. The former arrangement would be preferred.
In general, the consulting firm would provide the following specialists:
(i)  Senior irrigation, flood control, and drainage engineer who
would also lead the team.
(ii)  Senior agricultural economist (short period only).
(iii) Senior agronomist (short period only).
(iv)  Senior design engineers with experience in flood estimation,
foundation engineering, and hydraulic and structural design
(number and period to match the workload).
(v)  Planning engineer.
(vi)  Construction engineers (number to match the workload).



-48-
Annex 2.3
Page 2
3.      For screening the identified subprojects, the consultants would visit
the subprojects, study the initial proposals made by the field EEs, consider
alternatives, collect additional data, if needed, make necessary changes in
the subproject scope to meet the guidelines and technical requirements, and
recommend selection for preparing feasibility study. Should the initial
screening indicate strong probability for the implementation of the sub-
project, the consultant would assist field EEs in planning necessary surveys
and investigations including fixing targets for completion of data collec-
tion. Consultants would also prepare guidelines for feasibility level plans
and estimates to be prepared in the field. Consultants along with PPS III
staff would finalize the feasibility studies in sufficient detail to provide
information needed for COB decision on subproject implementation and IDA
review. For detailed design of works to be implemented, where the
feasibility study was done earlier, the consultants would visit the sub-
projects (already approved for implementation), examine the investigations
done an' data collected, satisfy themselves that the proposed works provide
the relief intended, and prepare design criteria to be adopted for detailed
designs. The consultants would prepare design drawings along with the staff
of PPS III, assure that design criteria are correctly followed and that
drawings are of suitable standard and detailed enough to permit construction
without the need of detailing in the field. For construction supervision,
the consultants would assure availability ef reference points for control of
alignment and levels. Quality control would be assured by enforcing con-
struction procedure and inspection standards which would be watched by the
BWDB field staff as well as by the consultant personnel during field visits.
4.      The consultants would assure that the feasibility reports and
detailed designs of the subprojects would be completed in time to meet the
implementation schedule.
5.      BWDB would provide the consultants with the following support:
Ci) All available data, contour maps, previous reports.
(ii)  All hydrological records of the river stages, rainfall data.
(iii)  Transport and office facilities.
6.      In addition to the feasibility reports and detailed design reports,
the consultants would submit the following:
(i) An inception report, one month after the starting date, detailing
the work plan.
(ii)  A monthly report on the progress of consultancy as well as physical
progress of the subprojects.
(iii)  A quarterly and annual report of physical and financial progress
on the subprojects.



UA1ESH
OD SIAIL SCEE  PROJCT
Table 1. KAMESHA RlvER FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE IIROJIDT
Detailed Cost Table
(Tk '000)
ParaAeters
Guantit                                           Base Costs                       PIs.
-                       --------kUnit-                                                          Cont. For.  6ross  Smars
Unit    0    1    2   3  4  5 Toal Cost   0              1       2        3      4       5    Total  Rate Exch. Tax Rate Account
1- I.JESYNT COSTS
A. IN!.ESTI5ATIONS MD SEYS                     LS        -    -    -                          312.3   156.4    52.0        -       -      -   520.4  0.1  0.2          0      IS
B. LRND ACQUISITIOI                            ha      100   46    -  -  -  -  146 77.1 7h710.8  3,547.0           -       -       -      - 11,257.8  0.1      0       0      LA
C. CIUIL MORKS
Eabankats                                 1000 .3    -  450  326  -  -  -  776 10.4            - 4,687.7  3,396.0               -      - 8.083.7  0.1  0.05         0      Ci
Turting ot Slomes                           ha        -   20   10  -  -  -   30 17.7           -   354.2   177.1        -       -      -   531.3  0.1  0.05         0      CU
Excavation ot Rhals                       1000 3    -  386  386   -   -          772 14.2      - 5,468.6  59468.6       -       -      - 104937.2  0.1  0.05        0      cu
Diverting Flow ot Jaria Nadi              1000 3      -   74         -   -   -    74 14.2      - 1.048.4        -       -       -      - 1.048.4  0.1  0.05         0      CU
Bridie en Jaria Nadi (1)                    No.       -    -    -                              -   831.7   831.7        -       -      - 1.663.4  0.1  0.4    0.05         ON
Sluites m lba1s (7)                         No.       -    -    -                 --,441.6 12662.4                      -       -       - 21,103.9  0.1  0.4    D.05       ON
Outlets in Egaents (6)                      No.       -    -    -                              -   155.9   155.9        -       -       -   311.9  0.1  0.4    0.05        CU
Raising Rod at Plaes                      1000 e3    -    -   51  -  -  -   51 20.6            -        - 1,051.9       -       -      -  1.051.9  0.1  0.05        0      Ci
Sub-Totl CIVIL U^S                                                                                - 20,988,1 23,743.6      -       -      - 44,731.6
D. ENSIIEER1N16 AD ADIINISTMTIN                                                                                                                                                            I
Site Preparation and Construxtion Plannirn   LS       -                                    312.3        -       -       -       -       -   312.3  0.1  0.2         0      EA
Pearation at Designs                        LS        -                                    101.6    23.5    15.6        -       -       -   140.7  0.1      0        0     EA
Adeinistration ad Stwervisin                          -                                     32.8  2.220.1  2.498.5      -       -       - 4.751.5  0.1  0.2         0      EA
Sub-ToUl E1111EIRINIIS ED ADNINISTRATION                                                      446.6 2243.6 24514.2         -       -      -  5,204.4
Total INESTNENT COSTS                                                                          8,469.7 26,934.8 269309.8      -       -      - 610714.2
II. RKi ET   COSTS
A. CIVIL  IS k UIN
Edbaknt Repairs                            b         -    -    -17.317.317.3  51.9 10.4       -        -        -  180.2  180.2  180.2   540.7  0.1  0.05           0    CO
Mhal Iaintenance                           ka              -       20 20 20   60  26          -        -        -  520.9  520.9  520.9  1,562.6  0.1  0.05          0     UD
Bridge maintenace                          No.            -         I  I  1    310.4          -        -       -   10.4   10.4   10.4    31.2  0.1  0.3             0    CO
Sluice Gate Otll                           No.       -    -         7  7  7   21 62.4         -        -        -  436.9  436.9  436.9  1,310.8  0.1  0.3           0    CUO
Supervisimn, including Transrort           LS        -    -       -               -           -        -        -  114.6  114.6  114.6   343.8  0.1  0.05           0    CUO
Sb -Total CIVIL   KS OU -N                                                                                        - 19263.0 1I263.0 1263.0  3,789.0
Total RECWNT COSTS                                                                                   -        -       - 1263.0 1,263.0 1t263.0 3,78h.0
Total DASELIE COStS                                                                            8469.7 26,934.8 26,309.8 19263.0 19263.0 1.263.0 65;503.2
Jimmn  12. 15  16156



MI6ESH
EDB SIIAL SCHEES PROJECT
lable 2. KALARA DRAINA6E
Detailed Cost Table
ITk '000)
Parmaeters
guantits                                           Base Costs                         Phs-
-           Unit                                                            Cont. For.  Gross   SuwTar
tUit    0    1    2    3   4   5 Total Cost   0          1        2        3       4       5     Total  Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
1. WIESTiN   COSTS
A. INESIGATINS AND SURVEYS                       LS      -     -     -          -172.8    35.4                         -       -       -       -    209.2   0.1  0.2         0      IS
B. LAND ACCUISITION                              ha     17  11.4     -   -  -   - 28.4 52.1  895.7   593.9             -       -       -       -  1,479.6   0.1     0        0      LA
C. CIU!L VRS
Eabankent Closures                          10003     -     3           -            310.4        -     31.3        -       -       -       -     31.3   0.1  0.05        0      CU
Turting ot Slopes                             ha      -   0.2     -    -    -   -   0.2 17.7      -      3.5        -       -       -       -      3.5   0.1  0.05        0      CU
Excavation at Kbals                        1i0 a3         200   153   -    -   -   353 14.2       -  2B833.5  29167.6       -       -       - 5,001.1   0.1  0.05         0      CN
Iridges wI Control Sluice (4)                 NO.  -        -     -    -             -               Z,412.3 1973.7        -       -       - 4t386.1   0.1   0.4      0.05      Cv
Sluices on lfOls (5)                          No.                                      -  5,037.1  7,555.6          -       -       - 129592.7   0.1   0.4     0.05      CU
Road Brid5s  (11)                             i.                                      -  2,618.8  2,618.8           -       -       - 5vZ37.5   0.1  0.4       0.05      Cv
Sub-Total CIUIL VORIS                                                                                - 12,936.4 14,315.7       -       -       - 27,252.2
D. ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION
Site Prera,ation and Construction Plarmnin    LS                                             312.3         -        -       -       -       -    312.3   0.1   0.2        0      EA                  U,
Preparation of Designs                        LS                                              101.6    54.7         -       -       -       -    156.3   0.1     0        0      EA
Adainistration and Supervision                                                                 18.1  1,362.0  1,503.2       -       -       -  2,993.3   0.1  0.2         0      EA
Sub-Total ENGINEERING MND AmIINISTRATION                                                         432.0  19416.7  1,503.2       -       -       - 3,351.9
Total IlNESTlENT COSTS                                                                            1490.5 14,92.5 15,818.9         -       -       -32,291.9
II. RECIRRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL UWRS DIN
Esbarkent Repairs                            km               -   1.2 1.2 1.2   3.6 10.4         -        -        -    12.5   12.5   12.5    37.5   0.1  O.05           0    CUD
Khal Raintenance                             km                  -23.223.223.2  69.6  26         -        -        -  604.2  604.2  604.2  1.812.6   0.1  0.05           0     CUD
Sluice Gate OIN                              No.           -     -   9   9   9    27 62.4        -        -        -   561.8  561.8  561.8  1,685.3   0.1   0.3          0     CUO
Pridea Maintenance                           No.                 -  11  11  11    33 10.4        -        -        -   114.6  114.6   114.6   343.8   0.1  0.05          0     CiD
Supervision, including Transport             LS                     -                            -        -        -    93.8   93.8   93.8   291.3  0.1  0.05             0     CUD
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS DtH                                                                           -        -        -1,386.9 1,396.8 1.386.9 4,160.4
Total REDIRRNT COSTS                                                                                    -        -        -1,396.8 1l386.8 1,386.8  4,160.4
Total BASEI   CSTS                                                                                 1,490.5 140982.5 15,818.9 1396.8 1386.8 1,386.8 36Z452.3
Janrur 12# 1984 16:56



BANGLADESH
BUDB SMhFLL SCHEI£S PROJECT
Table 3. SINUI RIIER FLOD CONTROtL
Detailed Cost Table
(Tk '000)
Paraaeters
Quantita                                         Base Cfz;s
Unit ----------------------                                 Cont. For.  Gross  Sunats
Unit   0    1       2    3   4  5  Total Cost    0        1       2       3      4      5    Total  Rate Exch. Tax Rate Account
1. INVESTIET COSTS
A. INVESTIGATION4S AND SItVEYS                  LS                                              259.2    53.1         -      -      -      -   312.3  0.1   0.2          0      iS
S. LAND XCQUISITION                              ha   115.5  49.5     -  -   -   -   165 77.1 8906.0  3B16.8          -      -     -      - 12.722.8  0.1      0        0      LA
C. CIVIL  KIS
Eabaents                                    1003       - 344.4 229.6   -  -  -  574 10.4          - 3y5B7.7  2Y391.8      -      -      -  5979.4  0.1  0.05         0      Ci
Turting of Slotes                            ha        -  10.2  6.8   -  -   -    1717.7          -    180.6   120.4      -      -      -   301.1  0.1  0.05          0      CJ
Sluices on Khals (8)                        Rn.                        - -    -           -        79485.1 119227.7      -      -      - 18,712.8   0.1   0.4    0.05       Cv
Outlets in Ed,haaents (10)                   No.                                                 -    311.9   207.9       -      -      -   519.8  0.1   0.4    0.05         CU
Sub-Total CIVIL VORIKS                                                                              -11565.3 13,947.8        -      -      - 25.513.1
D. EN6INEERIN6 MD ADlINISTRATICN
Site Preparation and Construction Planning   LS                                              312.3        -        -      -      -      -    312.3  0.1   0.2         0      EA
Preparation of Designs                       LS                                               72.9    31.3         -      -      -      -    104.2  0.1      0        0      EA
4dwinistration and Sunrvision                                                                 27.2  1,219.9  1,464.5      -      -      -  70711.7  0.1   0.2         0      EA
Sub-Total ENlINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                                                        412.4 ;,251.2  1,464,5       -      -      -  3;128.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                            94577.6 16686.4 15t412.4      -      -      - 41.676.4
11. RECIMRDIT COSTS
A. CIVIL ilR1CS ON
Embankent Repairs                            ka       -           -22.122.122,1  66.3 10.4       -       -        - 230,2 230.2  230.2   690.7  0.1  0.05            0     cWo
Sluice Gate 0N                             No.       -     -     -   8   8   8   24 62.4        -       -        - 499.3 4Y9.3  499.3 1.498.0  0.1  0.3             0     CUD
Supervisiont includins Trawort               LS       -     -     -  -   -   -      -           -        -        -   93.8  93.8  93.8   281.3  0.1  0.05            0    CW
Sub-Total CIVIL VMI(S 0Di                                                                           -- --. 823.3 823#3  623-3  2r469.9
Total RECIE(RENT COSTS                                                                                  -        -        - 823.3  823.3  823.3  29469.9
Total BASEIINE COSTS                                                                               9,577.6 16486.4 15#412.4  823.3  823.3  823.3 44U146.3
Jaruarg 12, 1984 16:57



8AMOLADESHI
ODB Sn4LL S#IEIES PRMJECT
Taoble 4. CDENCRUI IRR16RIION
Dotailed Cost Table
(Tk '000)
Paraaeters
Ouantity                                              Base Costs                         Phy.
- --- - ----- -- ------- --- -           ---------------- - ------------------- -- ----------- Cont. For.  Gross   Sunar
Unit 0   1   2   3   4   5  Total Unit Cost    0         1       2       3        4       5     Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Acount
1. INUESTfENT COsls
A. I8OCSTI;ATIONS MND SWES                      LS              -       -    -       2          91.4    72.9       -        -       -       -    364.3   0.1   0.2         0      IS
8. LAND ACQUISITION                              ha  6.8  15  15   -   -   - 36.9       104.2   703.3 1563.0 1,563.0         -       -       -  3,a27.3   0.1      0        0      LA
C. CIVIL M088S
Puep Houses and Intakes                       LS    -    -    -    -    -    -  -                -   275.5  336.8         -       -       -    612.3   0.1   0.4      0.uS      CN
Main and Secondars Canals                     LS    -   -   --   -   -    -                      -3238.6 3Y238.6          -       -       -  6,477.1   0.1 2          0.02      CW
Structures on Canals                          LS    -    -    -   -    -    -                    -   409.1   409.1        -       -       -    818.2   0.1  0.4       0.cs      CM
Field Chanels and Structares                  LS    -   -     -   -   -    -                     -1.524.7 1-524.7         -       -       -  3,049.4   0.1  0.15      0.05      Cm
Drainage Ditdes                               LS    -    -    -   -    -    -                    -   178.7  170,7         -       -       -    357.3   0.1  0.05         0      CR
Sub-Totl CIVIL WORKS                                                                                - 5,626.5 5.687.8        -       -       -11,314.3
J. EOUIP8EfT
Purs and Diesel Ensines                             -    -    -   -    -    -                    -    16.5 1657.7         -       -       -  2,474.1  0.1  0.65        0.2      ED
Sub-Total EUIP1IEM                                                                                  -   816.5 1,657.7        -       -       -  2,474.1
E. ENGllEER1r ANS AMINISMRATIOI                                                                                                                                                                            0
Site Preparation ano Construction Planning   LS    -    -    -    -    -    -                312.3       -       -        -       -       -    312.3   0.1   0.2         0      EA
Preparation ot Desisns                        LS    -    -    -    -    -    -                54.4    34.6     9.7        -       -       -     09.0   0.1      a        0      EA
Ad,inistratiaon and Supervision               Ls    -    -    -    -    -    -                30.6   684.2  771.3         -       -       -  1-486.0   0.1   0.2         0      EA
Sub-Total EN6IERONE SAND AiNINISTRAIION                                                         397.3  718.8   781.2         -       -       -  1,987.3
Total OOVSTKENt C35TS                                                                            1392.1 8,797.7 9,689.6                     -     19,07,,4
II. RECIlOENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WLS Ot8t
Pmphouse and Intake  ainttance               LS    -   -    -    -    -    -                    -       -       -    19.4    19.4   19.4       50.3   0.1   0.3         0     WO
Canals and Structures Naistanance            LS                                                 -       -        -   208.1   200.1   200.1    624.2   0.1   0.3         0     CR8
Operatinsg Personnel                         LS    -   -    -   -   -   -                       -       -       -      3.8    *3.8    93.8    281.3   0.1      0        0     CB3
Supervision, including Transu ort            LS -        -   -    -    -                                              10.4    10.4    10.4     31.3   0.1  0.05         0     CWO
Sub-Total CIUIL VM(S 018i                                                                                  -        -   331.7  131.7   331.7    995.0
B. ENIPIMENT Oil
Spare and Luobricats                         LS    -   -   -    -   -   -                       -       -       -036.4  36.4  536.4  2-50'.1   0.1   0.7              0.2     EGO
Unepatim  Personnel                          LS    -   -    -   -   -   -                       -       -       -    87.5    97.5    0'.5    262.6   0.1       0        0     EOD
Survisions including Iransport               is    -   -   -   -   -    -                       -       -       -       .4    10.14   10.4    31.3   0.1  0.05          0     EC3
Sub-Total EaUIPIET cu                                                                                      -        -   934.3   934.3   934.3  2,602.?
Total RL0NI  COSTS                                                                                     -        -       -1,266.0 1,266.01,266.0  3,797.9                                        5
: :    =::--:--=:=-=--:  =                     =.
Total  AILIINE  MTS                                                                               1,392.1 0-797.7 94819.6 1M266.0 1l246.0 1'266.0 23,677.3
Janar  12r ISB4  16:58



-53-
t3LAVESH                                                                              Annex  4. 1
WDBU SMAL SCHE0MES PROJECT
Table 5. STRENGTHENING 88D0
Detailed Cost Table
ITk '000)
Parameters
Ouantit.t                                                   Base Costs                            Phu.
-------------------------------------            ----------------------------------------------------------- Cont, For.  Gtross   Sumoar
Unit 0    1    2        3     4    5  lotal Unit Cost    0         1        2         3        4       5      Total   Rate Exch. Tax Rate kAount
l. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. EOUIPNLNT
1. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
Concrete Nixers 7/10 ctt               No.   -    20    20       -      -   -    40       72.7       -  1454.8  1,454.0         -        -       -  24909,6   0.1   0.4        0.2      EO
Concrete Vibrators 2 in                No.   -    40    40        -     -   -    sO       14.5       -    581.9    581.9         -        -       -  101639   0.1   0.4        0.2      EC
Devoaterind Pusms 2 cts                No.   -       8     7     -       -   -    15     51.9        -    414.8    363.0         -        -       -    777.8   0.1   0.7       0.2       EO
Wellnaint Suste                        No.    -      4     -      -     -   -     4      622.2       -  2,488.8         -        -        -       - 2.488.8   0.1   0.7        0.2      EC
Jetting Pumps                          No.   -       4     -     -      -   -     4      103.7       -    414.8         -        -        -       -    414.8   0.1      7      0.2       ED
Electric Oenerat,r                     No.    -      2     -      -     -   -     2      207.8       -    415.7              -            -       -    415.7   0.1   0.4       0.        ECt
300 cts Air Cosrrir.sors               N4O,    -     3     -            -  -   -  3     829.6        -  2488.8        -         -       -        - 2t488.8   0.1   0,7        0.2    EC
Pneumatic Vib Compactors               No.   -       B           -     -   -      8     207.4        -  1658.2         -        -       -        -  1.659.2   0.1   0.7       0.2       ED
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTIOH E2UIPMEYT                                                                        -  9,918.9  2i399.7         -        -       - 122318.6
2. TRANSPORT EOUIPtENT
1.5 ton Pickup                         Mo.   -       8                    -       8     285.2        -  2,28.4         -        -       -        - 2,2B1.4   D.1   0.7        0.2      EQ
40 hp Speed Boat 14 tt long            No.   -       6     -          -  -   -    6     207.4        -  1,244.4         -        -        -       -  1,244.4   0.1   0.7       0.2     EC
4-Wheel Drive Vehicles                 No.   -       5     5     -      -   -    10     259.3        -  1,296.3  1o296.3         -       -        - 2.592.5   0.1   0.7        0.2     EC
5-tor, Trucks                          No.           3     -                -     3     456.3        -  2,36.9          -        -        -       -  1,368.9   0.1   0,7       0.2     EC
ticrobus                               No.    -      2     -     -        -       2     259.3        -    518.5         -        -        -       -    518.5   0.1   t.7       0.2       Lo
Car 1300 cc                            No.    -      I     -     -      -   -     I      311.1       -    311.1         -        -        -       -    311.1   0.1   0.7       0.2     EC
itotorencles 80 cc                     No.   -    20    10       -      -   -    30      36.3             725.9    363.0         -        -       -  1,088.9   0.1   8.7       0.2       lO
Sub-Total TRAISPERT EOUIPRENT                                                                           -7746.5  1659.2             -        -       -  9.405.8
3. DESIGN EOUIPFENT
Furniture and Drafting Tables           LS  -      -     -     -     -    -     -     -          228.8    228.8    114.4         -        -       -    572.1   0.1   0.3      0.05       EO
Phatocopying tachine                   No.   -       I           -                1       363        -    363.0         -        -        -            363.0   0.1   0.7       0.2       EO
Plain Paper Photocopier                No.   -       I             -              I     155.6        -    155.6        -         -       -        -    155.6   0.1   0.7       0.2       EQ
ElPeCtric lpewriters                   No.   -       2     -     _                2      51.9        -    103.7        -         -                _    103.7   0.1   0.7       0.2       EO
;ianunl Tmeuriterrs                    No.    -      2     -     -      -         2       31.2       -     62.4         -        -       -        -     62.4   0.1   0.4      0.05      EC
Progranable Calculators                No.  25    18       5     -               40       2.6    64.8      25.9     13.0         -       -        -    103.7   0.1   0.7       0.2       EO
Boas and Periodicals                    LS    -                                                   62.2     41.5         -        -        -       -    103.7   0.1   0.7       0.2       EO
Amonia Printins tachine                No.   -       I    -      -      -   -     1       363        -    363.0         -            -            -    363.0   0.1   0.7       0.2       EO
Sub-Total DESION EGUIPttENT                                                                         355.9  1,343.8    127.4              -           -  1.827.1
lSb-Total EtUIPHENT                                                                                    355.9 19,009.2  4,186.3                         3- 23551.4
B. TECE0ICAL 8SSISTMICE
1. PREPARATION OF FE6SIBILlIY STUDIES
Expatriat.es                            tt     -     6    12     6      -   -   24      233.4        -  1,400.6  2.801.1  1,400.6         -       -  5,602.2   0.1   0.8         0       TA
Locals                                  so    -    48    60    60       -   -   168       18.8       -   900.3  1,125.4  1,125.4          -       -  3,151.0   0.1      0        0       TA
Sub-Total PREPARATION OF FEASIBILITY STUDIES                                                            -  2,300.8 34926.5  2525.9           -       -  8,753.2
2. PREP6RATION OF DESIGNS
Expatriates                             m      -     6    12    12      6   -    36     233.4        -  1,400.6  2.801.1  2,801.1 1,400.6         -  8,403.3   0.1   0.8         0       TA
Locals                                  as    -   180  IBO   180   180  80   800         1It8          3237,2 1 3.376.1  3,376.1 3,376.1 8.500.5 15004.8   0.1          0         0      TA
Sub-Total PREPARATION OF [ESIGNS                                                                        -  4776.6  6,177.2  6,177.2 4,776.6 1,500.5 239408,1
3. COXSTR CTIOA SUP6ERVISION ASSIoSTANE
Locals                                  ma    -      6    12    24    24  24    90        18.8       -    112.5    225.1    450.1   450.1   450.1  1,658.0   0.1        0        0       TA
Sub-Tot,al CONSTR[CTIOt SUPERVISION ASSISTANCE                                                               112.5    225.1   450.1   450.1   ;50.1  1,688.0
4. ASSESSNENT OF IOPACT                    LS                                                           -    218.2    436.4   545-6   545.6   436.4  2,182,2   0.1   0,5             0      10
Sub-Total TECNNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                             -  7,408.2 10,765,2  9s6,8.8 1P772.3 2,387.1 36,031.6
C. TRAINING
Trainina BIDB Project Personel             LS                                                      778.5    892.3    802.2   802,3   882.3  802.3  5,190.1   0.1   0.7              0    TTt
Sub-Total TRAININO                                                                                     778.5    882.3    802.3    882.3   882.3   802.2Sl590.1
Total INEJSTIENT COSTS                                                                                  2,134.4 27299.8 15,833.8 10,581.1 6,65486 3;269.4 64,773.1
..2c2.. p,,= ..St-..=.o e,Dfl ,r.fl, r.c     .*:.=f
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                    12134.4 27,299.8 15*823.8 10,581.1 6,654.6 30269.4 64,773.1
fd-r- -- --- -- 15152
Fobr,jac 20, 1984 15052



IYDI 3WIL S     S PROJECT
Table s. S1EMIE    IGN EMY D- PILOT DU PRM
Detailed Cost Table
(Tk p00)
Para;sters
GuantitY                                                  Base Costs                         Pht.
-___-__-____-________________-___-                          Cont. For.  Sross  Sumirs
Unit 0   1   2    3    4    5   Total Utit Cost 0            1       2        3        4        5       Total   Rate  Exd,. Tax Rate Acoant
1. INMESTINT COSTS
A. EhUIPMENT
1. TRANRl EhOUIPiNT
40 hp Smed Buitt 14 ft lor      No.   -  9    8        -    -    -       17    207.4    -  1,866.6  14659.2        -        -        -   3.525.9  0.1  0.7        0.2      EQ
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle           No.   -  16   10    -        -    -    26    259.3    - 4,148.1  29592,.5          -        -        -   6,740.6  0.1   0.7       0.2      EU
NItorni,le                      No.   -  40   40       -    -    -    80        36.3    - 1,451.8  1,451.8         -        -        -   2.903.7  0.1  0.7        0.2      ED
Biclse                          No.   - 30   30        -    -    -    60         2.6    -    78.2    78.2          -        -        -      156,3  0.1     0     0,05      EO
Sub-Total TRMIP T EUUIPWFNE                                                                - 7544.7  5.781.7          -        -        -   13.326.4
2. OFFICE EOUIPIflT
Photocotwi Wine                 No.        4    -    -                           363    - 1A451,          -        -        -        -    1,451.8  0.1  0J       0.2      EQ
tll Tweuriter                   No    -  12    -                         12      31.2    -   3743                                             43   0.1  Q,       0.05      EU
*Total (FFICE ElIJPIlET                                                                    - 1,826.1         -        -        -        -   1.826,1
S,b-TQtsl 8IUIPiINT                                                                           - 9,370.8  5781.7          -        -        -   15152.5
B. TECUKCAL ASSISTNCE
Expatriates                         _    -4         -    -    -    -         4    233.4   -   933.7          -        -        -        -      933.7  0.1  0.8         0      TA
Sub--Total TEISNICML ASSISTYMCE                                                               -   933.7         -        -        -        -      933.7
Total LWIESTENT COSTS                                                                            - i0,304.5  5,7S1.7        -        -        -   16,096.2
I. RSII§i  1
A. S7AFF O      ELT, EC.              mg -  18  S8   9D0 DM       0   80  3,210       20.9    -   2M.4 16.672.8 11,72.0 16,72.0 16,672.8   M.U99.4  0.1          0        0    WD
1. NT9ALR, KI9Y, LA                   LS      -                                -              - 9,9.1 29,724.1 29,724.3 29,724.3 29,724.3  124,M.2  0.1   0.2           0.1    END
Total REVRNT COSTS                                                                                - lO,19,5 45,396.3 45g396.3 45,396.3 45,396.3  191,784.6
WIl MSlEN  05TS                                                                                   - 20003.*7 1W178,0 45376J3 45,30643 450396,3  207,870.8
febard 75, 15   10i;5



RODD SMALL SDiES    JE.CT
Tiole 6. WAA IShS   FLOOD aMN1 AND DRAING SMXCTS
Betailed Cost Table
(Tk '000)
OCnt, Fot  6Ots  5urs
ini,   O   1  2  3  4  5 Total Cost 0        1       2       3        4       5    lotal  Rt  Exch. Tax Rate kcont
A, PIy SIUW10E1s (2)
Investigations iw  Surv-                    -             -       -        157.4    73.7    31.2                    Q1.       1 QZ          0      IS
Land ALuAidtion                      -  -  -  -  -  -                  - 49626.3 24128.4        -       -       - 6s7174,   g,i    o        o      Lu1
Civil harks                          -  -  -  --  -   -           -           -1259.5 14P249.2          -       - 26,839,6  0.1  0.23    0.03      wV
Enr& eirid aid bdinistntion          -  -  -  -  --    -               -  268.0  1346.1  1.509.2        -       - 3P.23.3  0.1  0.19        e      EA
Stota1 P1 SUFYI VRWTS (2)                                                 -5.091.6l6.159.7 B5OO9.6         -       - 37P029.9
Bo MY SBMM (4)
InvestUiations  O Survevs-                              -                     -   110.6    65.3    214          -    W 217.6  0.1   02      0      iS
Land  Asition                        -  -  -  -  -  -    -                       3- 24.3  1,483.4       -       - 40707.8  0.1    0         0      LA                           £
CiVil Morks                          -  -  -  -  -  -    -                    -        - 8772 S                   17064   0.1 0.23    0,03         DI.
Engineering no Asinistratin          -  -  -  -  -  -    -             -       -   16.8    38.2 110,8           - 2'176.B  0.1  0.19        0      EA
b-Tot Pn2 sVPRZtTS 14)                                                    -      - 34541.7 11.Z62.1 1,004.8       - 25Y808.6
C.    %mS  1s ti)
ImstiUtaiOO  ad Survs                   -                      -      -                -    90.9    45.4   15.1   151.1  0.1  0.2           0      IS
L4 Actuisitia                        -  -   -    -  -                  -       -       - 29243.1  19032.0       - 31275.0  0.1    0         0      LA
Civil larks                          -      -       --- 6u%% 6909.7 11tO1 0.1 OA  0.23    0.03                                                    Nd
Eiznewrirn  ad Abinistrtion- -  -  -                -           -    -   -                  129.9   652.7  731.7 16514.3  0.1  0.19         0      Eh
Stb-TotaI PY3 S I0.CTS £1)                                                _      _        - 2.463-8 7,834.4 7N655.5 17.693N.
Total IMFSTENT COSTS                                                        - StOB1.6 199700.4 294515.5 18.835.4 7.655.5 80,792.4
II. REWbTW MM
a. CIVIL vM  osn
PYISubproiacts                      -  -  -  -  -  -    -             -      -        -        -   717.8  75718 1 1515.6    0.1  14        0    Cm
PY2 Subpojets                       -  -  -  -  -  -    -             -       -       -        -       -  528.2   528.2  0.10.14          v0    wa
SiToal CIVIL MS    ^I-                                                                   -            757. 1S256.0 2)C3.0
Total maEimSTS                                                               -      -        -       -   757.8 t26 .0 2,043.8
Taal BPiLIE COSS                                                              - SYDO1.6 19,700.4 29,515.5 19.597.1 9,941.5 82rBU.2
Jawuarv 12, 184  17:02



No SMIL         S PRCT
Table 7. tWMALSO 1RAINf SIOECTS
et4ile Coest Table
(Ti 00
Pamters
R  atits                                      8Oge Costs                          Pbv.
-      - th___________________- MUnt                                             -         CoCt. For.   Bras         59 
bhit 0  1  2 3   4 S   Total Cost  0           1       2       3        4       5       Total   hte  Exch. Tax T      mirt
I. 0SIENT 08S
a. ADDITITtW m SUIPROJCTS 11)
Invrstzgatims WeA Survs              -  -  -  -  -  -    -             1.2   10.7        -       -        -       -      109.9  0.1  0.2         0     is
Land  uisiticn                          -           -  -  -  -   -   467.4  313.4        -       -        -       -      7o.9  0.1    0          0     LA
Civil Woaks                          -   -  -     -  -       -           - 6,.27.8 7,55i.6       -        -       -  14,393.3  0.1 0.34    0.04          I
rn8inevrins a     inistration           -           -  -  -  -   -   228.0  74.3   74.0          -        -        -   1,770.3  0.1  0.19        0     EA
Sub-total AMITICIML PY SsNECTS /1)                                      786.7 7,908.2  8,349.5      -        -       -  17,044.4
B. PT1 083I0tOES (3)
Inteatiuot s an s$ryws              -   -  -   -   -   -                 -  211.1    43.2        -        -       -      254.4  0.1  0.2         0     i5
Lnd *,isition                       -  -   -   -   -   -                -1,082.6   725.9        -        -       -   1808.5  0.1    0           0     Ii
Civil Works                          -   -  -   -            -           -      - 15,811.6 17,497.1       -       -  33,308.7  0.1 0.34    0.04        a8
EnOirwering ard fAinistration        -  -   -   -            -           -  528.0  1,732.7 1,939.7        -        -   4,099.6  0.1  0.19        0      EA
Si-Toal1 "m SL CTS (3)                                                     - 1,821.7  8,S313.7 19,335.7     -       -  39,471.2
C. Pm2 StLRECTS (2)
______                                                                                                                                                                              U.
Invstistimns arn Surve0s            -  -   -   -   -   -                             172.0    35.4        -       -      208.2  0.1  0.2         0     iS
La noesition                         -  -   -   -   -   -    --                         .7   593.?        -       -   1,479.6  0.1    0          0     LA
Civil Marks                          -   -   -                           -      -        - 12,936.8 14,315.8       -  27-252.6  0.1  0.34    0.04      Cll
EBr0w,inm mo  Adinistration         -   -   -   -   -   -               -      -   432.0  1,417.0  1-504.4       -   3.354.2  0.1 0.19          0     EA
Sub-Tatal l    SUFEROETS (2)                                                -      - 1,490.5 14,904.0 15,B20.2       -  32,294.7
D. PY3 stWOECTs (1)
IlWstitions ad Smr's                -  -  -   -   -   -                                       100.3    20.6       -      121.5  0.1  0.2         0     IS
Lno fnuisittn                        -   -   -   -   -   -                               -   516.6   346.4        -        M63.1  0.1    0       0     1.
Civil Uorks                          -   -                               -      -        -       - -?546.s5   ,350.9  15,897.4  0.1  0 34    0.04       cm
Lri,r,iri awd A4inistration          -                                   -      -        -   252.0   327.1   877.5   1.056.6  0.1  0.19          0     EA
Sab-Tatal m03 33R13ETsu (l)                                                 -      -        -   869,5 8i740.6 9M28.4  189083.5
Total CINESTEMT CUM                                                       786.7 9,729.9 28,153.8 35,189.2 24,560.8  P,22s.4  107,648.8
11- T tIEtS
A. CIVIL km   o314
mditi31 PM SrOt-7s                  -   -   -   -   -   -    -                               731.9   731.9   731.9   2,195.8  0.1  0.15         0    C'
PYI    rosucts                      -   -          -                    -      -        -        - 1,695.0  1,695.0   3,359.9  0.1 0.15         0    coo
PT2 Siroegts                        -   -   -   -                       -      -        -        -       - 1,336.8   1,386.8  D.1  0.15         0    CUD
Sub-Totl CIVIL liS tlU                                                     -      -        -   731.9 2,426.7 34813.7   6,972.5
TOtI F F   CT                                                                 -       -        -    m71.9  2,426.9  3,813.7   6.972.5
ToUl  MIE CTS M76.7 9,729.9 2BY1S3.8 35,921.1 26,917.7 13,042.1  114,621.3
JMv 12, IM1  103



B^SAH1AESI(
BNDB SMALL SUNENES PROJECT
Table 8. UNAPPRAISED FLOOD CONTROL SUOPROJECTS
Detailed Cost Table
(Tk '000)
Par3seters
Quantitv                                         Base Costs                          Phv.
Unit -------                                                     Cont. For.  Gross   Suaarv
Unit 0   1  2  3   4  5 Total Cost 0           1        2        3        4        5       Total   Rate Exch. Tax Rate Acount
1. IWVESPNT CUSTS
A. PYl SUB IWJECTS (2)
Invastigations and Surves             -    -   -   -    -   -    -        -    334.8    68.6         -        -       -      403.3  0.1   0.2         0      IS
Land Acouisition                       -  -    -   -    -    -    -       -11,503.6  4,930.1         -        -        -   16.433.7  0.1      0       0      LA
Civil Works                           -   -  -  -    -    -    -          -        -14,935.3 18,019.9         -        -   32,955.1  0.1  0.31     0.04     CO
Engineering and Administration        -    -   -   -    -   -    -        -   532.4  1,617.1  1.993.3         -        -   4,042.9  0.1  0.19         0      EA
Sub-Total PYl SUBPROJECTS (2)                                                -12,370.8 21,551.1 19.913.1         -        -  53.835.0
B. PY2 SUBPROJECTS (2)
Investigations and Surves             -   -   -   -    -    -             -        -    291.6    59.7         -        -     351.3  0.1  0.2          0      IS
Land kicuisition                      -    -   -   -    -   --                     -10,019.3  4,294.0         -        -   14i313.2  0.1      0       0      LA
Civil  orks                           -   -   -   -    -    -             -        -        - 13008.1 15,694.7         -  28,702.8  0.1  0.31      0.04      Cm
Ensineer sg and Administration        -    -   -   -    -   -             -        -    463.7  1,408.5  1,649.0        -   3,521.3  0.1  0.19         0      EA
__     ______ ___ ____ _     _-      -      --            
Sub-Total PY2 SUI9PROECTS (2)                                                -        - 10.774.6 18,770.3 17,343.7        -  46r88.6
C. PY3 SUIR.ECTS (1)
Investisations and Surves             -    -   -   -    -   -             -        -        -   388.8    79.6          -      468.4  0.1   0.2        0      IS
Land kcauisitin                        -    -   -   -    -    --                   -        - 1359.0  5,125.3          -  19,094.2  0.1       0        0     Lk
Civil Works                                               -      -     - - -   -  -  -  -            -17,344.2 20,926.3  38,270.5  0,1  0.31       0.04      Cl
Engineering aid Adinistration         -    -    -   -    -    -           -        -        -   618.3  1,878.0  2,198.7   4,695.0  0.1  0.19          0      Ei
Sub-Total PY3 SUBPROJECTS (1)                                                -        -        - 14,366.1 25,027.1 23,124.9  62r518.1
Total INvESTENT COSTS                                                           - 12,370.8 32.325.7 53,049.5 42,370.8 23.124.9  163t241.7
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VORKS OtU
PTI Subprojects                                                          -        -        -        -  1-063.4  1,063.4   2,126.9  0.1   0.2          0    CUD
PT2 Subrojiects                       -   -    -   -    -    -           -        -        -        -        -    926.3      926.3  0.1   0.2         0    MD
Sub-Total CIVIL WRKS 0IN                                                    -        -        -        -  1,063.4  1,989,7   3,053.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                           -        -        -        -  10463.4  1,989.7   3,053.1                                       x
=  _        =~___   _ _____                     _-
Total BASfLINE COSTS                                                             - 124370.8 32,325.7 53o049.5 43P434.2 25.114.6  166,294.8
Jamar  12, 1984  17:04



Annex 4.1.
061  4AL SCHEMES P8OLCC
Title 9. UNM'9AISED IRNOIATION SUWIV.CTS
Detailed colt table
ITt '000)
Psaumter
Quantity                                               ho. Costs                                 1w
................... LUnt ---------------------------------  Coot. For,   Gross   Summary
unit  0   1   2   3   4   5  Totaulcost    0           1        2         3         4         5       Total    Rate  Exch. Tax R.t.Akouant
2. INWSTIIEHT COSTS
A. AD011y1114  PYO SUIPRJECTS (1)
Investigatiorn  aNW Suruva                                                     433.3    108.3          -         -        -         -       541,7   0.1   0.2          0      1
Land Aeauisition                          -1.  - -I045.6  2P324.6  2.324.6                                       -                  -     5694.7   0.1       0         0       LA
Civil Wo'ks                                                   - -8. - -- 6431.0  8.923.4                         -         -        -   1707544   0.1  0.23        0,05       co
Eouipunt                                 - - - - - --  b14141  2,465.0                                           -         -              3,67n,o   0.1  0.65        0.2      Ea
Engin.etrin  and Adairsistrotion--- - - - -590.9  1.110,.5  1.211,6                                                                       W    ,21.0   0.1  0.19       0       EA
Sub-Total ADDITI114  PY0 StJI'QJECTS (1)                                        2  .098 13,596,5 14.924,6           -                  - 30*590.9
I. PY1 SUJSI)JECTS (1)
Invhtitations aNd Surveys--- - - - --  1,011.1    252.8                                                                                  1,263.8   0.1   0.2           0      is
Land Ansuisition                               - -  -      - --  2t439.6  5.424.0  5,424.0                                 -              3P297.7   0.1      0         0      LA
Civil Works-- --   - -- 20*605,8 20.821.2                                                                                  -        - 41,426.9   0.1  0.23         0.05       CU
Eautowt              -        -    -    -  ~    ~-                      -  2.832.9  5,751.6          -         -     0,584.5   0.1  0.65        0.2      to
Enginrfrint and Administration-. .-  1.. l3)8.8  29609.8  2,827.2                                                          -        -     6,815.8   0.1  0,19          0      EA
Sub-Total PYI SUBAOJECTS (ii                                                              4,829.5 31M.252 34,824.0            -             71,378.7
C. PY2 SUP1ROJECTS (11
Inm.tiUttims and Surveys-n-- -- --  1,2999    325.0                                                                       -         -    1,624.9   0.1   0.2           0      is
Lmad Aemisition,                          .-                                                 -  39136.6  6,973.7  6,973.7           -   17,064.1   0.1       0         0      LA
Civil Vork%                              --                                                            - 16,1493.4 26,770.1         -   53,263.2   0.1  0.23       0.05       cU
Esuipeat                                  -- - -- --  3.642.3  79395.0                                                              -   11,037.2   0.1  0.65         0.2      E0
Eninwerins and Administration--                                                              -1.772.8  3,355.4  3,635.0             -    8,763.2   0.1  0.19           0      EA
Sub-Total P92 SUW'RO.CTS (1)                                                           -         -      9.293 40.789.6 44,773.8             91,772.7
11. P93 SIJOROJECTS (1)
Irvastigations and Surve-y-s-------    433,3    106.3                                                                                       541.7   0.1   0.2          0      Is
Land kwutnitior.                          -- - --                                                      -  1,045.6  29324.6  2,324.6    5,694.7   0.1         0         0      L.A
Civil Uotks                               --- -            -- --  8,831.0  0,923.4   17,754.4   0.1  0.23                                                           0,05      CU
Emuipuat                                  -        -     -                                             --           1,214.1  2,465.0    3v679.0   0.1  0.65          0.2      EQ
Enginterins and Administration---- --- -                            -590.9  1,118.5  1,211.6    2,921.0   0.1  0.19                                                    0      EA
Sub-Total P93 SCBJMRECTS CI                                                            -        -             29069.8 l3,596.5 14,924.6   30,590.9
Total IKWSTIEMT COSTS                                                               2.069.8 18.426,0 52.859.1 77,693.4 50,370.3 14,924,6  224,333.2
II. RECWARNI COSTS
A. CIVIL VMS09 010
Additional PY0 SuWro,,bols---- -                          - ---489.7    489.7    489.7    1,469.1   0.1  0.21                                                         0      CUD0
P91 Subprojects                          --- --- ----  1.142.8  1,142.8    2,285.6   0.1  0.21                                                                        0      CU0
P92 Subproj,ects                         ---   -------1,469.6    1t,469.6   0.1  0.21                                                                                 0      CUD0
Sub-Total CIVIL 11RK( 0DIN-                                                                                    489.7  1,632.5  3,02.2    5,24.4
B. EQUIPMIENT 0IM
Additiomal PYO S.jproJeets               -- --- ---1.79.6  1,379.6  1,379.6    4,138.7   0.1  0.63                                                                 0.18      EGO
PY1 Subp.rojiects                        -- - -- --  3,218,8  3,210.8    6,37.6   0.1  0.63                                                                        0.18      EGO
P92 Subpnoiects                          ----- -----4,138.1 *  4.138.1   0.1  0.63                                                                                 0.18      EAO
Sub-Total EQUIMENT0189DI                                                              -         -         -  137'9.6  1,598.3  8,736.5   14,714.4
Total 01CURREIf  COSTS                                                                     -        -         -  1,869.3  6,230.9 11,83.6   19,938.7
tsr,.2. east....     . sesas  asstm. Saloom=, Roo.asee omt,sete.'d
Total 3051.20  COSTS                                                                 2.069.0 18426.0 52P059,1 79,532.6 64,401.1 26.763.2  244,271.9
sett,,  ats.., s..eveaestla,f  ettetet  essef,etn  :t.eter.-
Jwmnur 12. 19B4 27105



BAN3LADESH
BUDD SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
Sussarv Account bu Project Component
(RT '000)
Phusical
Contingencies
FLOOD CONTROL                                    STRENGTHENING
AN  BRAINASE  DRAINASE  FLOOD OWNIR)L IRRISGAION    BUDD         Total      X     Amount
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. 1IIS¶INS AND SURVE1YS                             120l.B       902.1      1535.3    4y336.3              -    7s75.5 10.0        797.5
D. LAND ACQUISITION                                  25,995.2   6,411.7       62,554.0   45,590.6             -   14551,5 10.0  14055.2
C. CIVIL WORIS                                      lQ3y2?0.9  1l1?094.l     125v441,6  141.513.3             -   48839.9 10.0  48,834.0
D. ENGINEERING AND ARINISTRATION                     12,018.8  14.532.7       15,387.2   23,318.4             -    65,257.4 10.0   6,525.7
E. EOUIPfIENT                                               -          -             -  29,453.9       39,703.9   69,157.9 10.0   6,815.8
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                     -          -             -          -      36;965.3   36,965.3 10.0   3,696.5
TRAINI$14S                                               -          -             -          -         l5,190.1  51,1 10.0         519,0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAININ6                       -                  -          -      42,155.3   42vI55.3 10.0   4,215.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _ ___ ___ ___ _____
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                 142,506.6  139,940.7    204.919.0  244,212.5       80,859.3  812,437.2 10.0  81Y243.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS OGI                                   5,832.8  11,132.9        S,523.1    6,219.4    191,784.6  220,492.7 10.0  22,049.3
B. EIUIPIENT HIM                                           -          -             -   176517.3                  17t517.3 10,0   1751.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                    Ss832.8  11,132.9        5,523.1   23,736.7    19ls784.6  23B,009.9 10,0  23,801.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    148,339.4  1519073.6    210v441.1  267,949.2    272,643.9 1,050.447.1 10.0  105,044.7
Phvsical Contingencies                                14YM33.9  15,107.4       21,044,1   26794.9       27,264.4   105,044.7  0.0        0,0
Price Contingencies                                   34Y861.0  40,913.8       5?9140.7   79,507.4      7??,2646  274,349.5  ?.l  26t751.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      198;034.3  207,094.7    290t625.9  374,251.5    379W834.8 1,49,841.3  9.1  131,803.8
Taxes                                                  3P607.6   6,585.7        6,712.9  22.744.2       27F155.5   66.805.? ?,1    6407.33
Foreign Exchange                                      37,165.4   61,046.6      62,435.2  9972.5         89P452.4  349822.0  9.1  31980.0             a x
Februars 25, 1984 11'05



FORM ftO 1
PROCUAIMENT SCHEOULE FOR CIVIL WORKS
CoulY  BAN8GLADESH                                                                                                                                  oroEVD3 SS1U SCM2S PRORCT
Kangsha River Flood Coutrol                                                                                                                                           ,                                                     z |
and Draiaage SUbprmoject-"
Eaban1QBant9 & Divert-
ing Jaria                    L.C.B.  9.3 _|"m
{ 707hCCoetsscL5°>~~~~~APRM1                            1    75   ;C*fis      9   !0m  
Excavation of nhals                                                                               
5 Contracts                  L.C.B   10.5 t   I 
Sluices on ,hale  and
Outlets                      L.C.B, 201 61 1                                                                                                                                                        f  I
7 Contracts
Bridge on Jaria                            ,               i     4           r
1 Contract                   L.C.B    1.6 
RSL1 t|||iIIiis                                                                                                         I I I I2-a
1Contract                   L.C.B    1.0                                                                                                                                                                               f
Kalaroa Dralnage
Subproject
Excavation of O(Ials                                                     _              ---
and Emn anCTent              L.C.B    4.8   EISEvTE ---                                                                           I
2lucesontra       isctsIMA
SLuices on  ~         L.C.B   16.3
9 Contracts
Bridges                      L.C.B    5.0    --
4 Contracts
A-ITITREFARATEN 0e PRIOUALIFIcATeON COLWEerS                          I mllTleTE  PRmO,mT,CmIFCeTON5AKO DOtXtm$T                       , COmRCTmOmm n.    ETE             f  e1mE  T.
tfANOTE O"lTAZ>T                                                   I INTIAKUTE PFIAJAK. OTOF KI1DT514 ADt t BDA                     ;TCE  COI'VA.CTO!01 fT                INT F ni
C,-  vaWFlOtlAEmAFLClF                                               3Su ?Anmsefmc*Tdrt*Omm  is.eeemnmst                             me (SemmVCtmOe .fLeenmE                    etmtm^C    _eeo
T  NtA         0 DCOASE OII' TAtO AOCA A  TO lA. M ID                      CLt5ACt O        - -eCcsre - - OOmc
t'c'rLt 00M lACMORAIcAJMCATt OACA -                                     oeNQaA,- EVALUATI.N e r0UsA.  R.COME.OTVTO IDA- CCD
O-WCFVWF rc. oUWWACOCTORlC  e.,me LE                                       OF Oaeee.C.erme
a-me. n.e.s~~~ e,sESE...e,maAerme-w



PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR CIVIL WORltS
rw0$t BANGLADESH}                                                                                                                                   ws8:  3WDB SPIALT SCEES  RREiX
zTVC                                  ;2 84                          '9 85           s               86_                                                                                     
Bighai River Flcod                               F04
iControl Subproject                                41
Embankments 
4 Contracts                 L.C.B.  6.0        -
Sluices on Khals                                                          8           1&l
Outlets                     L.C.B. 18.5    .0$
B Contracts
Chenchuri Irrigation                            l O cW
Subproject
Pumpl Houses and                                            .
Intak~esLC.0. 
1 Contract
Main and Secondary                                         1i 14     5 0002.1
Canalv & Structures    L.C.B.  7.4 
I Contract                                   A_L
Structures on Field                          OPASAIL                 5    8          91                                       
Maonuals                    L.C.B.  1.6   2'
I Contract
pa   psAT scnomu                                                    rRG00R E52 E bT25                                                                                    200.5000050* 302*3ZE 
*.ffOT nmATE T Ab10$ *OA.PCAOOCA,f ItT Z 8                              ,Mrn*TESE aRrIon  .sEtcro.s MOSI sOOcauIIas                    a CO*sruTAT  rnCObPLSTE             a,Eamb.rE~a.- 
JelvaWAoTImWInIJSIA                                                I ¶0*5501T OttW,tM,00AsOO 02 lOCwtEn¶sf3lOA                     '0 tO¶300UC1102%OaLEk                  c nwErn0.vtOG
ITRMICWOMBCOC ,RTlAt5 0*                                                5* IOCLAR*,.FEC$CS5  0t,A-OO* .n0 00 OCIAONfl                2 C0.StOsacrO.No    C- fl00flr        -*.OCAtO O Es'rr
0-a05AUeATINOWTICO                                                    * 0025 0102
*-OEWesoOTRC0**00AFC*tlIOf 00*                                           TRemorEVALUATION slEst 550 swAOREiOIEOc tOSO.wso Ioo  oIA                                                                                                              rO rr1
0.1*ITOlrvAuJTISElWuTat,or0tWOATION¶TO  0.                            , 5oa CtEARA1.Co OF qEwoNp.o.Iso                                                                                                                                           0f $2
C_CoO- caeMsRCO 0.t^Cra5*                         j                      ws $000



FORM NO. 1933
BourGtLADS0SESH    _                             PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EOUIPMENT ANO MATERIALS                                OsT    BB    T, S ES  PROEN
GtnutnctiotI<pm        O' IA     TE 11.                    84so -5                                                  86 J i|itF    f   W  
8It(Z43Nos.)~~~~~~~- 2C 9. .sE I- -I 3 etS                                                                                                 - IN    I& 2  1: t                             & !t    
Pumping Equipment for                1.       24 _.                4  15 ! 
Chenchuri subproiect   ICB           2.4                        - - _ _,
Construction EquipmentI'L    ;A7R
8 Items (156 Nos.)         ICB      11.9             - --                                4-- -
transport Equipment                                                 -          -
8 Items (243 Nos.)         ICB       9            
Design Equipment. Etc.                                  _l      " ij             L
IS Ttem   (63 ?4s.)        ICE       1.1    oot 
Furnicure, Books, etc.  OCB          0.7                                                                                                                             >
ADEVAU ATtA                                                    2 Rns,s,cOCAr.ONSXV^T~tt A ,.r,O,es5"6OOOCuiEOTSrIOA     t 1OTto'sELiVDtSLSVR6ATSIIE           COfETrItIT'E5fDc
b.RT TIIOOUIIR MTAW 0*                                           3 I0*CLEfAtANCtOP 5ftCIFCAT,ONAOO§OIOOOItUU'TS 5         II ^OINIOLIVEftVt L5TE             LCO-tOCAtCOOfEl?T.Vt
0-|AC=A O*MUW      tfglCSOAOt_IflRtA                            I5!TATNOI 98*S  0007  0                                                                          Ooto
0_inmm    Uc A Tf We9t  0Ol                                       0900 05  RUli09DTD  EOTAlOAR  £C&lAl>Sl                                                    PS-f0UD00' SOfiftOG
94*
RV-1  -1- z v ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 1



BANGLADESH
BWDB SHALL SCHEOES PROJECT
SumarY Account bu Tise
(Tk '000)
Totals Includinr Contingencies
0         1          2           3          4          5         Total
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. INUESTIGATIONS AND SURVEYS                      1,788.9    2.613.8    3,108.2    2.135.2        413.6       24.3    10,O84.1
B. LAND ACOUISITION                               22,586.0   37,893.6   44,207.3   49,927.1   24,553.5    3,740.9   8i2,908.4
C. CIVIL WORKS                                            -   79N815.2  178,880,9  184,220.6  159,898.4   72,480.4   675,2?5.,6
D. ENGINEERING AND ADNINISTRATION                  2j874.4   12,184.9   23,814.0   23,406,8   18,468.8    89069.8    88,818.7
E. EQUIPHENT                                          408.7   36,598.8   22Y163.9   13,273.1   12,921.0    3,950.2    89,375.9
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                  -    9,983.0   13,986.0   13,581.0    8,659,7    3,839.6    50,049.3
TRAININ6                                          895.0    16060,2    1,153,0    1,243.8    1,329.1    1,414.8        7,O9Y.8
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING          895,0   11,043.1   15,139.1   14,824.8    9,988.7    5f254.4    57P145.1
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                                28,552.9  180,149.6  287P313.5  287,737.5  226,304.2   93,520.0 1,103,627.'
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS DIH                                       -   12.182.6   52,587.9   70,267.2   826563.4   95Y505.5   319.106.5
B. EQUIPMENT 081                                         -          -          -    3,266.6    8y339.0   15,501,5   27,107,1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                        -   12,182.6   589587,9   739533.9  90,902.4  1114007.0   346,213.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    28,552.9  192s332.2  3459901.3  361,321.4  317,206.6  204.526.9 1i449i841 3                (D
X 2S
Februarv 25i 1984 11:04



-644-
Annex 4.3
Table 2
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHFMF:S PROJF.CT
Proposed Credit Allocation
(Million)
Percent of Expenditures
Ca.tegory                           US$    SDR      to be Financed
1  Civil Works                    19.0   18.40    94%
2 Equipment and Spares              2.6    2.55    100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 65% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3  Investigations and Surveys       0.4    0.39    100%
4 Administration and
Engineering                      3.0    2.91    100%
v Operation and Maintenance
a  Subprojects                  2.0    1.95    100% in first year after
completion, 60% in second
year, and 30% in third year
b Pilot Decentralized
Program                      8.o    7.75    80%
6 Initial Deposit in Special
Account (to finance items
under category 1)                3.0    2.91
7  Unallocated                      3.5    3.34
TOTAL                        41.5   40.20



-65-
Annex 4.3
Table 3
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHENES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(Million)
Disbursements
Per Semester      Cumulative
Semester Ending                      US$    SDR       US$    SDR
December 1984                      0.6    0.6       0.6    0.6
June 1985                          3.7    3.6       4.3    4.2
December 1985                      1.5    1.5       5.8    5.7
June 1986                          8.2    7.9      14.0   13.6
December 1986                      2.0    1.9      16.0   15.5
June 1987                         8.4    8.1       24.4   23.6
December 1987                      2.0    1.9      26.4   25.5
June 1988                          7.6    7.4     34.0   32.9
December 1988                      2.0    1.9      36.0   34.8
June 1989                          4.2    4.1      40.2   38.9
December 1989                      1.3    1.3      41.5   40.2



-66-
Annex 5.1
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJE.CT
Cropping Patterns of Appraised Subprojects
(acres)
With
Present 1/   Project
Flood Control and Drainage Subprojects
Broadcast Paddy (L)                            19,030        ii,hoo
Transplanted Paddy (L)                         26,1L0        20,,L90
Transplanted Paddy (HYV)                       27,170        51,210
- Aus                                         (1h,630)      (17,770)
- Aman                                        (   _        (21,940)
-  Boro                                       (12,540)      (11,500)
72,340       83,100
Jheat                                             830         2,090
Jute                                            3,760        3,760
Oilseeds                                        2,620        h,6oD
Total Cropped Area                             79,550        93,550
Net Area                                       57,500        57,500
Cropping Intensity (%)                          138           163
Irrigation Subproject
Broadcast Paddy (L)                             1,540           150
Transplanted Paddy (L)                             10           200
Transplanted Paddy (HYV)                          -           1,800
- Aus                                          (  -  )       ( 200)
-  Aman                                        (                800)
- Boro                                         (  -  )       ( 800)
1,550        2,150
Wheat                                              60            80
Jute                                              150           150
Oilseeds                                          740           740
Total Cropped Area                              2,500         3,120
Net Area                                        1,875         1,875
Cropping Intensity (%)                          133          166
1/ Future without project assumed to be the same as present.



-67-
BNIGLADE8H                                                         Annex 5.2
3WDB SltALL SCRBEMS PROJECr                                                 Tsble 1
Illustrative Fars fudgiets - Flood Control and nrainage SubproJecta
(3 Are Farm, Constant FY84 Prices)
--  ---- ---PrEsClt-----      -  -.---------Future witt Proje c- t----
Price   Cropped Area  --       uity__-_          Value/Cost  Cropped Area  ----uantity----              Value/(0ost
Unit      (Tk)       (ac)        (kg/at 1/)   (kig)           (TO)         (ac)         (kg/sc  1/)    (kg)         (Tk)
A. PRODnlCTION
B. Aus (1.)                 Maund    144            .6           380          228          8Rn             .S          420           210          811
T. Aus (8YV)                                        .8           920          736        2,841            1.0         1,100        1,100       4,247
T. Aman (L)                                        1.2           800          960        3,706             .6          880           528        2,038
T. Aman (HYV)                                        -            -            -            -             1.0         1,150        1,150       4,440
B. AU., B. Anan 2/                                 .4            700          280        1,081             .1          730            73          282
Boro (WYV)                                          .8         1,350       1 080         4 170             .8        1,620         1.296       5 003
Subtotal: Paddy                                                       34284 I7                                                 ,357       16,821
Wheat                                 132            -            -            -            -              .5         1,000          500        1,769
Jute                                  160           .2           5i30         116          496             .2          640           128          549
Oilseeds                              230           .15          300           45          277             .2          330            66          407
1ll Crops                                     4.15                                 13,451            4.9                                  19,546
B.  INPUTS
Paddy (L)
Seed                       kg         4         2.2             25.8 3/    56.8          227            1.2           26.5 31       31.R       127
Mr ure                      '          .13       .6            200         120            IS             .5          200           100           13
Laaor (hired)           Kanday       IR         1.2             10           12          216             .6            17           tO         180
Bullock                 Pairday      25         2.2              8.5 4/    18.8          470            1.2            R.5 41       10.2       255
_ -                                                    575
Paddy (8YV)
Seed                       kg         5         7.6             '9          30.4         152            2.8            19           53.2       2h6
Manure                                 .13        .8           200         160            21            1.0          200           200           26
Urea                     Maund      148         1.6             40          64           254            2.8           59.3         166         f59
TSP                                 140         1.6             21           33.6        126            2.8           42.8         119.8       450
Potash (HP)                         110           .8 S/          9            7.2         21            2.8            18           50.4       149
Pesticide                  kg       330         1.6               .2           .32       106            2.8              .3           .84      277
Labor (hired)           manday       18         1.6             10.5         16.8        302            2.8            18.5         52         936
Bullock                 Palrday    25           1.6              9.5        15.2         380            2.8            10           28         700
1,362                                                  463
Wheat
Seed                       kg         4.6                                                                .5           50            25         115
Urea                     Maund      148                                                                  .5           50            25          99
TSP                                 140                                                                  .5            37           18.5        69
Potaah (HP)                         1IO                                                                  .5            18            9          27
Pesticide                  kg       330                                                                  .5              .2           .1        33
Bullock                 Pairday      25                                                                  .5            8             4         100
Jute
Seed                       kg        53.6        .2              4   '         8          43             .2            4              .8        43
M7anure                                .13       .2            375          75            10             .2          375            75           10
Urea                     Maund    148             .2            24            4.8         19             .2           24             4.8         19
TSP                                 140           .2             9            1.8          7             .2             9            1.8          7
Potash (HP)                         110           .2             9            1.8          5             .2             9            1.8         5
Labor (hired)           Manday       IR          .2             12            2.4         43             .2           20             4          72
Bullock                 Pairday      25           .2            10            2           50             .2           10             2          50
177                                                  20_6
Oi lseeds
Seed                       kg         6.7        .15             6             .9          6             .2            6             1.2         8
Manure                                 *' .13     .15          200          30             4             .2          200            40           5
Bullock                 Pairday      25           .15            4             .6         1S             .2            4              .8        20
All Crops
Seed                                            4.15                                     428            4.9                                    559
Manure                                          1.75                        385           50            1.9                        415          54
Urea                                            1.8                         68.8         273            3.5                        195.8       777
TSP                                             1.8                          35.4        133            3.5                        140.1       526
Potabh (HP)                                     1.0                           9           26            3.5                         61.2       181
Pesticide                                       1.6                            .32       106            3.3                           .94      310
Labor (hired)                                   3.0                         31.2         561            3.6                         66       1,188
Bullock                                         4.15                        36.6         915            4.9                         45       1 125
2,492                                                t4720
C.  IET PRODUCTION VALUE
Paddy (L)                                                                              4,739                                                 2,556
Paddy (lYV)                                                                            5,649                                                10,227
Wheat                                                                                     -                                                  1,326
Jute                                                                                     319                                                   343
Oilseeds                                                                                 252                                                   374
I5; W,-fff1 4,826
Index                                                                                    100                                                   135
1/  Except for labor and bullock; converted fro. uaunda par acre at 37.3 kg per Saund.
T    M mixed.
/   34 k4  for broadacrt. 19 kg for transplanted paddy.
8 pairdays for broadcast, 9 pairdays for transplanted paddy.
SI Boro (8?tV) only.



-68-
BANGLADESR                                                   Annex 5. 2
818D0  SMALL SCHEMHES PRo80Cr
Illustrative Fare Budgets - Flood Control and Drainaeg  Subprojects
(3 Acre Farm, Constant FYR4 Prices)
---------------P ----prel ent          ---------- -  ----  ----Fetture w ithout Project-------------
Price   Cropped Are                             Value/Cost  Cropped Area       -    nttry-          Value/Cost
UInit     (TR)      (ac)         (kg/lac 1/)   (kg)         (Tk)         (nc)        (kgtac 1/)    (kg)          (Pk)
A. PRODUCTION
B. Aus (L)                 M4aund    144          .6           380         228          S80            .6           400          240         927
T. Aus (mV)                  *        .           .8           920         736        2,841             .8          9h0          768       2 965
T. Avail (L)                      ' '            1.2           800         960        3,706            1.2          840        1,008       3,891
B. Aus, B. Anan 2/           "                    .4           700         280        1,081             .4          730          292       1 .127
Boro (lIlYV)                 "                    .8         1,350       1,080        4,170             .8        1,420        1,136       4,386
Subtotal: Paddy                             3.8                      3,284       12,678           3.8                     3,444      13,296
Jute                                 160          .2           580         116          496             .2          580          116         496
Oilseeds                             230          .15          300          45          277             .15         300           45         277
All Crops                                   4.15                                 13,451           4.15                               14,069
B.  XNPUrS
Paddy (L)
Seed                      kg         4         2.2            25.8 3/    56.8         227           2.2            25.8 3/     56.8        227
Manure                     "          .13       .6           20n         120           15            .6          200           120          15
Labur (hired)           Manday      18         1.2            10          12          216           1.2            10           12         216
Bullock                 pairday    25          2.2             8.5 4/    18.8         470           2.2             8.5 4/      IA.1l      470
Paddy (IHYV)
Seed                 k.              5         1.6            19          30.4        152           1.6            19          30.4       152
Manure                                .13       .8           200         160           21            .8          200           160         21
Urea                    Maund    148           1.6            40          64          254           1.6           40           64          254
TSP                        "       140         1.6            21          33.6        126           1.6           21            33.6A      126
Potash (HIP)               "       110         .8 5/           9           7.2         21            .8             9           7.2         21
Pesticide                 kg       330         1.6              .2          .32       106           1.6             .2            .32      106
Labor (hired)           Monday    I1           1.6            10.5        16.8        302           1.6            10.5         16.8      302
Buullock                Pairday    25          1.6             9.5 6/    15.2         380           1.6            9.5 6/       15.2      380
1,362                                               1 .36 2
Jute
Seed                      kg        53.6       .2              4            .8         43            .2             4             .8       43
Manure                     "          .13       .2           375          75           10            .2          375           75           10
Urea                    Maund    148           .2             24           4.8         19            .2            24           4.8         19
TSP                                140         .2              9           1.8          7            .2             9            1.8         7
Potash (HP)                        110         .2              9           1.8          5            .2            9             1.8         5
Labor (hired)          Manday       18         .2             12           2.4         43            .2            12           2.4        43
Bullock                 Pairday    25          .2             10           2           50            .2            10           2           50
T77                                                 T77
Oilseeds
Seed                      kg         6.7       .15             6            .9          6            .15           6              .9         6
Manure                     "          .13       .15          200          30            4            .15         200           30            4
Bullock                 pairday    25          .15             4            .6         15            .15            4             .6        15
All Cropa
Seed                                           4.15                                   478           4.15                                   428
Manure                                         1.75                      385           50            1.75                      385          50
Urea                                           1.8                        68.8        273           1.8                        68.8        273
TSP                                            1.8                        35.4        133           1.A                         35.4       133
Potash (HP)                                    I.                         9           26           1.0                         9          26
Pesticlde                                      1.6                          .32       106           1.6                           .32      106
Labor (hired)                                  3.0                        31.2        561           3.0                         31.2       561
Bullock                                        4.15                       36.6        915           4.15                        36.6       915
2,492                                               2,492
C.  NET pltODtCrION VALl)g
Paddy (L)                                                                           4 ,739                                              5,017
Paddy (llIV)                                                                        5,649                                               5,989
Jute                                                                                  319                                                  319
Oilseeds                                                                              252                                                  252
10,959                                                577
Index                                                                                 100                                                  106
1/  Except for labor and bullock; converted from maunds per acre at 37.3 kg per mound.
I/  Mixed.
3/  34 ic8 for broadcast, 19 kg for transplanted paddy.
>/  8 pairdays for broadeast, 9 pairdays for transplanted paddy.
S/  BOro (htV) only.
6/ 9 palrdays for broadcast, 10 pairdays for transplanted paddy.



-69-
BANC.LADBSH                                                    Annex 5.2
1Tab1o 3
8WDB SMALL SCHPHgS PROJBTECr
Illuatrative Farm Budgets - Irrigation Subprojecto
(3 kre Parm, Constant FYR4 Prtces)
-- -------------------Prsent-           -            ---------     ~~~~~~Future with Project -------------
Price   Cropped Area  -                         Value/Cost  Cropped Area  -----Ouantity-----    Value/Cost
llnit     (Tk)      (ac)        (kg/ac 1/)   (kg)           (Yk)         (ac)        (ks/ac 1/)    (kg)          (Tk)
A.  PRODUcTION
R. Aus (L)                 Maund    144           .15          400          60           232                         -                  -
T. Aua (HYV)                                       -            -           -            -              .2        1 .1l(0        220         84ql
B. Aman (L)                                       .8           480         384        1,482             .55         530          292       1,127
T. Amain (L)                                      .3           80o         240           927            .5          880          440       1,699
T. Aman (hYV)                                      -                        -            -              .8        1,150          920       3,552
B. Anu, B. Aman 2/           "                   1.2           700         840        3,243                          -            -           -
Boro (gYV)                                         -            -           -            -             1.3        1,620        2,106      _82 1Y3
Subtotal: Paddy                             2.45                     1,524        5,884           3.35                    3,978      15,357
Wheat                                132          .1           550           55          195            .2        1,000          200         708
Jute                                 160          .25          580         145          622             .25         640          160         686
Ohlaeeds                             230         1.2           300         360        2,220            1.2          330          396       2t442
All Crops                                   4.0                                   8,921           5,0                                 19,143
B.  INPUTS
Paddy (L)
Seed                      kg         4         2.45           32.2 3/    78.8         315            1.05          26,9 3/      28.2       113
Manure                                .13       .15          200          30            4             -            -            -
Labor (hired)           Manday      18          .3            In           3           54             .s           17            8.5       153
Bullock                 Pairday    25          2.45            B.1 4/    19.9         497            1.05           8.5 4/       R.9       222
A70                                                 7-8
Paddy (thV)
Seed                      kg         5                                                               2.3           19           43.7       219
Manure                                .13                                                             .2          200           40           5
Urea                     Maund    148                                                               2.3            66.2        152.3       604
TSP                                140                                                               2.3           45.2        104         390
Potash (MP)                        110                                                              2.3            19           41.4       122
Pesticide                 kg       330                                                              2.3              .3           .h9      228
Labor (hired)           Manday      18                                                              2.3            19.25        44.3       797
Bullock                 Pairday    25.                                                              2.3            10           23         575
2,940
Wheat
Seed                      kg         4.6        .1            50           5           23             .2           50           10          46
Urea                     Maund    148           .1            37           3.7         15            .2            50           10          40
TSP                                140          .1            24           2.4          9             .2           37            7.4        28
Potash (MP)                        Io           .1             9            .9          3             .2           18            3.6        11
Peeticide                 kg       330         .1               .1          .u.         3             .2             .2           .04       13
Bullock                 Pairday    25           .1             8             .8        20            .2             8            1.6        40
Jute
Seed                      kg        53.6        .25            4            1          54             .25           4            1          54
Manure                                .13       .25          375          94            12            .25         375           94          12
Urea                     Maund    14A           .25           24           6            24            .25          24            6          24
TSP                                140          .25             9           2.25        8             .25           9            2.25        8
Potash                             110          .25            9           t.21         6             .25           9            2.25        6
Labor (hired)           Mnaday      18          .25           12           3           54             .25          20            5          90
Bullock                 pairday    25           .25           10           2.5         63             .25          10            2.5        63
221                                                 257
Oilseeds
Seed                      kg         6.7       1.2             6           7.2         48           1.2             6            7.2        48
Manure                                .13      1.2           200         240            31           1.2          200          24n          31
Bullock                 Pairday    25          1.2              4           4.8        120           1.2            4            4.8       120
199
All Crops
Seed                                           4.0                                    440           5.0                                    480
Manure                                         1.6                       364            47           1.65                      374          48
Urea                                            .35                        9.7         39            2.75                      168.3       668
TSP                                             .35                         4.65        17           2.75                      113.65      426
Potash (MP)                                     .35                         3.15        9            2.75                       47.25      139
Pesticide                                       .1                           .01        3            2.5                          .73      241
labor (hired)                                   .55                        6          108           3.05                        57.8    1,040
Bullock                                        4.0                        28          700            5.0                        40.8    1,020
1;363                                               4,062
C. NET PRODUCTION VALUL
Paddy tL)                                                                           5,014                                                2,338
Paddy (BtV)                                                                                                                              9,591
Wheal                                                                                 122                                                  530
Jute                                                                                  401                                                  429
oilseeds                                                                            2,021                                                2,243
7,558                                 ~~~~~~~~~~15,131
Index                                                                                 10n                                                  200
1/  Except for labor and bullock: converted from  seunds per acre at 37.3 kg per maund.
4! itwed,
37/ 34 kg for broadcast, 19 kg for transplanted paddy.
I/ 8 pairdays for broadcast, 9 pairdays for transplanted paddy.



-70*-
RANCLAI3BSR                                                      Annex 5.2
BW1B 8HALL SCHRMAS PROJECrT                                               Table 4
Tllustrative Farm Budgets - Irrigation Subprojects
(3 Acre Farm, Ccnstant FY84 Prices)
----~--------Pes Present------------  -----------Future without Project----------
Price   Cropped Area  -       nuantity-- --    Value/root  Cropped Area    ---          - atit-       Value/Cost
Unit      (Tk)       (ac)        (kg/ac 1/)   (kg)           (Tk)         (ac)         (kg/ac 1/)    (kg)         (Tk)
A.  PRODUCIION
B. Aus (L)                 Maund    144            .15          400           60          232             .15         420           63          243
B. Aman (L)                                        .8           480          384        1,482             .R          50so         400        1,544
. Aman (L)                                         .3           800          240          927             .3          840          252          973
B. Aua, B. Axan 2/                                1.2           700          84n        3,243            1.2          730          876       3,382
Subtotal: Paddy                              2.45                     1,524        5,884            2.45                     1,591       6,142
Wheat                                 132          .1           550           55          19S             .1          600           60          212
Jute                                  160          .25          580          145          622             .25         580          145          622
qtilaeeds                     '       230         1.2           300          360        2,220            1.2          300          36r)      2,220
All Crops                                    4.0                                   8,921            T.0                                  9,196
Peddy (L)
Seed                      kg          4         2.4j           32.2 3/    78.8          315           2.45           32.2 3/      7R.R       315
Manure                                 .13      .15           20n 0         30            4             .15         200           3n            4
Labor (hired)           Manday      18           .3            10            3           54             .3           10            3          54
Bullock                 palrday    25          2.45             8.1 4/    19.9          497           2.45            8.1 4/      19.9       497
a70                         ~0s70
Wheat
Seed                      kg          4.6        .1            50            5           23             .1           50            5          23
Urea                     Maund    14R            .1            37            3.7         15             .1           37            3.7         15
TSP                                 140          .1            24            2.4          9             .1           24            2.4          9
Potash (HP)                 '      110           .1             9             .9          3             .1            9             .9          3
Pesticide                 kg       53"'          .1              .1           .01         3             .1             .1           .01        3
Bullock                 Pairday    25            .1             a             .8         20             .1            8             .8        20
Jute
Seed                      kg        53.6        .25             4            1           54             .25           4            1          54
Manure                                 .13       .25          375           94           12             .25         375           94          12
Urea                     IlAund    148           .25           24            6           24             .25          24            6          24
TSP                                 140          .25            9            2.25         8             .25           9            2.25         8
Potash                             110           .25            9            2.25         6             .25           9            2.25        6
Labor (hired)           Kenday      1R           .25           12            3           54             .25          12            3          54
Bullock                 Palrday    25            .25           10            2.5         63             .25          10            2.5        63
2-1                                                  2 1
Oilseeds
Seed                      kg          6.7       1.2             6            7.2         48           1.2             6            7.2        48
Manure                                 .13      1.2           200         240            31           1.2           200          240          31
Bullock                 Poirday    25           1.2             4            4.8        120           1.2             4            4.8       120
All Cropu
Seed                                            4.0                                     440           4.0                                    440
Manure                                          1.6                        364           47           1.6                        364          47
Urea                                             .35                         9.7         39             .35                        9.7        3°
TSP                                              .35                         4.65        17             .35                        4.65        17
Potash (HP)                                      .35                         3.15         9             .35                        3.15        9
Pesticide                                        .1                          .01          3             .1                          .01        3
Labor (hired)                                    .55                         6          108             .55                        6         108
Bullock                                         4.0                        28           700           4.0                         28         700
T;i 31 T3653
C. 1NET PRODUCTIOP VALUE
Paddy (L)                                                                             5,014                                                5,272
Wheat                                                                                   122                                                  139
Jute                                                                                    401                                                  401
oilseeds                                                                              2,021                                                2,021
7,558                                                7,833
Index                                                                                   100                                                  104
1/ Except for labor and bullock; converted from mtunds per acre &.t 37.3 kg per maund.
Yl Mixed .
/   34 kg for broadcast, 19 kg for traneplanted paddy.
TI 8 psirdays for broaddeest 9 peirdays for transplanted paddy.



BANGLADESH
BWDB S_MLL SCREMES PROJECT
Economic Price of Paddy
1983     1984      1995     1086      1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      IQ92     1993      1996      1Q95
Thai 5X Broken, FOR Rangkok 1|
Current US,, per MT                     300       360       395     (443)    (497)    (558)    (626)        702     (742)    (784)    (828)    (875)        924
Coont. 1q84 US$ per MT                  379       360       361      374       396      420       444       470      469       467      466       464       462
Index                                    31.3    100       109.5    118.3    125.4    132.9    140.9    149.4    158.3    167.8    177.8    188.6    199.8
Pieca. Year Nasis
Const. 1984 US$ per MT                      344.5    360.5    367.5       385       408       432      457    469.5       468    466.5        465      463
Exchange Rate (Tk per US$)                   25.0     25.0      25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0     25.0
Const. 1984 Tk per MT                       8,613    9,013    9,188    9,625   10,200   10,800   11,425   11,738   11,100   11,663   11,625   11,575
x Adjustant Pactor (0.9 2/)
CIF Chittagong                              7,752    8,112    8,269    8,663    9,180    9,720   10,283   10,564   10,530   10,497   10,463  '10,418
Plus: Handling and Transport
between Port and Market 3/           1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200
Market Price                                8,952    9,312    9,469    9,R63   10,380   10,920   11,483   11,764   11,730   11,697   11,663   11,618
Less: Processing 4/                           546      546       546       546      546       546      546       546       546      546       546       546
Ex-Mill Price of Rice                       8,406    8,766    8,923    q,317    9,834   10,374   10,937   11,218   11,184   11,1%1   11,117   11,072
iiv&alent Prlce'of Paddy                    S.A64    5,698    5,8OO    6,056    6,392    6,743    7,109    7,292    7,270    7,246    7,226    7,197
(at 0.65)
Less: Handling and Transport             /
between Mill and Farmgate 5/ /         104       104      104       104       104      104       104       104      104       104       104      104
Faragate Price, Tk per MT                   5,360    5,594    5,696    5,952    6,288    6,639    7,005    7,188    7,166    7,144    7,122    7,093
Faragate Price, Tk per ad. (rounded) 61    200         210       215       220      235       250       260      270       265      265       265       265
1/ World Bank, EPDCO, .uiy 1983.
2!  Based on rf76-83 relationship between import unit values and prices of reference quality.
_1  Based on RD TI Project SAR (Report No. 4348-BD, May 17, 1983).  Non-traded cost components have been adjusted using an SCF of 0.83.                              x
41 Net of value of by-products; adjusted by SCF of 0.83.
51  Average distance assumed to be about 10 miles; adjusted by SCF of 0.83.                                                                                       I
6/  1 MT - 26.8 ad. (maund).



B9ANGJ,ADRSR
IRWD  RMALL qCRHRMRS PROJECT
Rconomic Price of Wheat
1983     1984      1985     1986     1987      1988     1989      199n     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995
CWRS 1/ in Store Thunder Bay 21
Current US$ per MT                      173      187       197     (216)    (237)    (261)    (286)       314      (333)    (353)    (374)    '3%)        4 2z
Const. IQ84 USS per MT                  189       187      180       183      189      196       203      210       210      210       210      210       210
Index                                    91.3    100       109.5    118.3    125.4    132.9    140.9    149.4    158.3    167.8    177.8    18R.6    199.8
Fiscal Year Basis
Const. 1984 US$ per MT                       188    183.5    191.5        1R6    192.5    199.5    206.5       210       210      210       210      210
fxchange Rate (Tk per USS)                  25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0     25.0     25.0       25.0     25.0      25.0    25.0
Const. 1984 Tk per MT                      4,700    4,588    4,538    4,650    4,813    4,988    5,163    5,250    5,250    5,250    5,250    5,250
x Adjustment Factor (1.1 31)                                                                                                                                        3
CIF Chittagong                             5,170    5,047    4,992    5,115    5,294    5,487    5,679    5,775    5,775    5,775    5,775    5,775
Plus: Handling and Transport
between Port and Market 4/           1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,2nO    1,200    1,00    1,200
Market Price                               6,370    6,247    6,192    6,315    6,494    6,6R7    6,879    6,975    6,975    6,975    6,975    6,975
Less: Handling and Transport between         104       104      104       104      104       104      104       104      104       104      104       104
Market and Parmgate 5/                                             _                                              _               _
Unadjusted Farmgate Price                  6,266    6,143    6,088    6,211    6,390    6,583    6,775    6,871    6,871    6,871    6,871    6,871
Less: Removal of Foreign Matter (5%)         313       307      304       311      320       329      339       344      344       344      344       344
Farmgate Price, Tk per MT                  5,953    5,836    5,784    5,900    6,070    6,254    6,436    6,527    6,527    6,527    6,527    6,527
Faragate Price, Tk per ad. 6/ (rounded)    220         220      215       220      225       2;5      240       245      245       245      245       245
It  Canadian No. I Western Red Spring.
2/  World Bank, RPDCO, July 1983.
3 B sased on FY6-83 relationship between import unit values and prices of reference quality.
4 B based on RD 1I Prjject SAR (Report No. 4348-BD, May 17, 1983). Non-traded cost components have been adjusted using an SCF of 0.83.
5/ Adjusted by SCF of 0.83.
@/  I MT - 26.8 EA. (maund).



BAN9LADRES
MbB SMALL SCff E8 PROJ1CT
Economic Price of Jute
1983     1984     1985      1986    I187      1988      1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995
Bangladesh White n, FOMR  ¶t.tagong/Chalna I/
Current USS per MT                      2R5     3i5       340      (359)    (378)    (399)    (421)      444     (4.81)    (521)    (565)  - (61Z)      663
Const. 1984 tdS$ per MT                312       315      311       30       301      300       299      297       304      31I      31R       324      33Z
Index                                    91.3    100       109.5    118.3    125.4    132.9    140.9    144.4    158.3    167.8    177.8    188.6    199.8
Fiscal Year Basis
Const. 1984 US$ per MT                     313.5      313       307      302    300.5    29S.5       248    300.5       307      314       321      328
Excbange Rate (lT per nss)                  As.O     25.0      25.0     25.h     25.0      25.n     25,0     75.0      25.0     25.0      25.0     2S.0
Const. 198) Tk per URS                     7,R38    7,825    7,675    7,550    7,513    7,488    7,450    7,513    7,675    7,850    8,025    8,200
x Adjustment Factor (1.0 2/)
CIF Ctittagong/Chalna                      7,838    7,825    7,675    7,550    7,513    7,488    7,450    7,513    7,675    7,850    8,025    8,200
LeaB: Eaciditng and Transport betveen
Port and Storage Point 31           1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350
Price ex Rtorage Point                     6,488    6,475    6,325    6,200    6,163    6,138    6,100    6,163    6,325    6,500    6,675    6,850
L,es8: WoCeBsing, Raidling ana
Transport between Storage
Point and Parmgate It                1,350    1,350    1,3S6    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1.350    1,350    1,350    1,350
unadjusted Farngate Price                  5,138    5,125    4,975    4,850    4,813    4,788    4,750    4,813    4,975    5,150    5,325    5,500
Milling Afficiency                           0.8      0.        n 0.8    0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8      n.A       0.R      O.8
Faragate Price, Tk per MT                  4,110    4,100    3,q9o    3,880    3,850    3,830    3,^00   3,850    3,9P8    4,120    4,260    4,4W0
Fartgate Price, Tk per M. (rounded) 4/    155         155       150      145      145       145      140       145      I5O      155       16n      165
I/  world Bank, FPDC0, July 1983.
2/  Based on FY76-83 relationship between export unit values and prices of reference quality.
31  Based on IFAD Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and rrrigation Project (Report No. 4463-En, nee. 28, 1983).  Non-traded cost compomants
have been adjusted ustn$ an SCF of 0.83.
41  1 Mr - 26.R ud. (maund).



BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
Economic Price of Oilseeds
1983     1984      1985     1986      1987      1988     1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994     1995
Soybeans, US. CIP Rotterdam 11
Current US$ per MT                       260      302       350      (385)    (423)    (465)    (511)       562      (5Q5)    (629)    (665)    (704)       745
Const. 1984 USS per MT                  285       302       320      325       337       350      363       376       376      375       374       373      373
Index                                     91.3    100       109.5    118.3    125.4    132.9    140.9    149.4    158.3    167.8    177.8    18E.6    199.8
Fiscal Year Basis
Coust. 1984 US$ per MT                      293.5       311    322.5       331    343.5    356.5    369.5        376    375.5    374.5    373.5         373
Exchange Rate (Tk per US$)                   25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0
Const. 1984 Tk per MT                       7,338    7,775    8,063    8,275    8,588    8,913    9,238    9,400    9,388    9,363    9,338    9,325
x Adjustment Factor (1.3 2/)
CIF Chittagong                              9,539   10,108   10,482   10,758   11,164   11,587   12,009   12,220   12,204   12,172   12,139   12,123
Plus: Handling and Transport between
Port and Market 3/                   1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200
Market Price                               10,739   11,308   11,682   11,958   12,364   12,787   13,209   13,420   13,404   13,372   13,339   13,323
Less: Processing 41                           978       978      978       978      978       978       978      978       978       978      978       978
Pl?s: Value of Oilcake 4/ 51                1,141    1,141    1,141    1,141    1,141    1,141    1,141    1,141    1,141    1,141    1,141    1,141
Ex-MIll Price                              10,902   11,471   11,845   12,121   12,527   12,950   13,372   13,583   13,567   13,535   13,502   13,486
Less: Handling and Transport between
Hill and Faragate 4/                    104      104       104       104      104       104      104       104       104      104       104       104
Faregate Price, Tk per NT                  10,79R   11,367   11,741   12,017   12,423   12,R46   13,268   13,479   13,463   13,431   13,398   17:,382
Fan gate Price, Tk per ad. 61 (rounded)    405          425      440       450       465      4R0       495       505      505       500       500      500
1/ World Rank, EPDCO, July 1983.
B Eased on F776-83 relationship between Import unit values and prices of reference quality.
31  Assumed to cost the sase as for rice and wheat (see Report No. 4463-BD).                                                                                       ¢ J
1  Adjusted uaing a standard conversion factor (SCP) of 0.83.                                                                                                     a x
5I  Cake recovery rate 0.66.
I1  1 WT - 26.8 ad. (saund).



-75-
Annex 6,1
811DB SMAL, SC11E8 PROJECT                                                       Table 5
bconoeic Price of Fartilizsre
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      19119     1990      1991      1992     1993      1994      1995
Dre n, B    Stgd  POn Surope 1/            147       167       231      (263)    (298)    (339)    (385)         438      (468)    (499)    (533)    (569)        608
Const. 1984 tlS$ per ttt                 161       167       211       222       23A       255       273      293       246       297       300       302       304
TrsP, FOB Ps Cult 1/
Current PnTS   perPtIT                   144       163       tR9      (210)    (234)    (260)    (289)        322                                               431
Const. 19A4 Tk Per P1                    15R       163       173       17R       187       196      205       216       216       216       216       21b       216
mp', 2/ FO8 Vancouver 1/
Current USS per tT                        82        92       109      (121)    (134)    (148)    (164)         1R2                                              243
Conet. 1984 tlBS per K4r                  90        QZ       Ina       102       107       lit      ll6       122       122       122       122       122       122
Index                                       92.3    lo        109.5    118.3    125.4    132.9    140.9    149.4    158.3    167.P    177.R    188.6    199.8
viescl Year RSste
Couvit. Iq4 U)55 per mr
Uren                                            164       189       216.5    230       246.5    264         283      294.5    296.S    298.5   301         303
TSP                                             160.5    16R        175.5    182.5    191.5    200.5        210.5   216        216       216     216       216
M4P                                              91        96       l01       104.5    109       113.5      119      122       122       122      122       122
Cenet. 1964 Tka pa t4t (ITh 25.0/USS)
Urea                                          4,100    4,125    5,413    5,750    6,163    6,600          7,075   7,363    7,413    7,463   7,525    7 575
TSP                                           4,013    4,200    4,388    4,563    4,788    5,013          5,263   5,400    5,400    5,600   5,400    5 400
MP                                            2,275    2,400    2,525    2,613    2,725    2,838          2,975   3,050    3,050    3,050   3,050    3,050
x AdjuIteOnt Factor (1.4 3/)
CIP Chitta cong
Orea                                          5,740    6,615    7,578    8,050    8,628    9,240          9,905  10,308   10,378   1d,448  10,535   10,605
TSP                                           5,618    5,880    6,143    6,388    6,703    7,OR          7,368   7,560    7,560    7,560   7,560    7,560
ttP                                           3,915    3,360    3,535    3,65R    3,815    3,973          4,165   6,270    4,270    4,270   4;270    4,270
19cnd1ta,l and Transport between
Part *ad Aar4et or Storage Point                                                                                        00
Itrea  /                                        700       700       700       70        700      700-700
TSP                                             700       700       700      700       700       700       700       700       700       700      700      700
MP                                              704       700       700      700       700       700       700       700       700       700      700      700
Market Price
iJres                                         6,440    7,315    A,278    8,750    9,328    9,940   10.605    9,608    9,678    9,748   9,835    9,90S
TSP                                           6  318    6,5RO    6,843    7,08R    7,403    7,718    8,068    8,260    8,260    8,260   8,260    8,260
up                                            3,885    4,060    4,235    4,358    451S    4,673    4,865    4,970    4,970    4,970   4,970    4,970
13andling end Transport between market
or Storage Point end Farsgate 6/
nrea                                            170       170       170       170      170       170       170       170       170       170      170       170
TSP                                             170       170      t70       170       170       170       170       170       170       170     170       170
MP                                              170       170       170      170       170       170       170       170       170       170      170      170
Farre8ete Pr ce, Tix per PlI
Urea                                          6,610    7,485    8,448    8,920    9,498   10,110   10,775    9,778    9,848    9,918   10,005  10,075
TSP                                           6,488    6,750    7,013    7,258    7,573    7,888    8,238    A,430    8,430    8,430    8,430   8.430
PP                                            4,055    4,230    4,405    4,528    4,685    4,843    5,035    5,140    5,140    5,140    5,140   5,140
Parmgate Price, T1  per 50 k8 8k 8 7/
Urea                                            330       375       420      445       475       505       540       490       490       495       500     505
TSP                                             325       335       350      365       380       395       410       420       420       420       420     420
MP                                              205       210       220      225       235       240       250       255       255       255       255     255
?armgate Price, Tk per ad. 7/ 8/
Ure,                                            245       280       315      335       355       375       400       365       365       370      375      375
TSP                                             240       250       260      270       285       295       305       315       315       315       315     315
Mv                                              150       160       165      170       175       180       190       190       t90       190       190     190
W1 Vorld Bank. EPDCO, July 1983.
2/  Potassiun chloride, also known as zurtate of potash.
7/  Basd on Fr76-83 relationship between fertilixer import unit values and prices of reference quality
(weighted average of ures, TSP, DAP and PP).
4/  based on Report go. 4463-8D, Decber 78, 1983, Small Seale Plood Control, Drainage and IrritRaton Project.  costs of non-treded cQponenta
have been adjusted using a standard conversion factor (SCP) of O.3.
5/  It is assumed that over the next few years Rangladesh v.ll becara a not exporter of urea.
6/   atisate baced on PADC costa between primary distribution point and Thann sales center, plus handling and transport costs to feterate.
Ad.lusted br SCP of 0.83.
7/  Rounded lo nearest Ti 5.
T/  I MT - 26.8 ad. (aund).



-76-
BANGLADESH                                                           Annex 6.2
BHDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND COSTS
(TK MILLION)
YEAR            1904         1985        1986         1987        1988         1989        1990         1991        1992         1993        1994
PROD BENEF WITH PROJ            423.0       809.3       1139.3      1484.6       1647,7      1064.2       2131.7      2366.2       2490.4      2560.4       2587.8
PROD BENEF WtTHOUT PROJ         473.0       809.3       1139.3      1446.5       1533.6      1627.5       1730.0      1789.5       1796.8      1797.4       1796.7
INCR PROD BENEFITS                  -           -            -        38.0        114.1       236.7        401.6       576.7        693.5       763.0        791.1
PROD COSTS WITH PROJ            177.2       293.6        395.9       473.0        513.5       570.5        634.0       684.2        721.5       742.5        750.5
PROD COSTS INTHCUT PROJ         177.2       293.6        391.8       452.1        457.8       463,9        467.6       466.1        466.3       466.5        466.8
INCR PROD COSTS                     -           -          3,9        21.7         55.7       106.6        166,3       210.1        255.2       276.0        283.6
INVESTMENT COSTS                 73.0       128.9        200.6       190.9        139.6        54.2            -           -            -           -            -
Ol8  COSTS                          -           -            -         6.7         13.9        21.6         25.6        25.6         25.6        25.6         25.6
INVEST AND 01M COSTS             23.0       128.9        200,6       197.6        153.6        75.8         25.6        25.6         25.6        25.6         25.6
PROJECT BENEFITS                    -           -            -        38.0        114.1       236.7        401.6       576.7        693.5       763.0        791.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              23.0       128.9        204,5       219,4        209.2       182,4        191.9       243,7        200.7       301.6        309.2
NET PROJECT BENEFITS            -23.0      -128.9       -204.5      -101.3        -95.1        54.3        209.7       333.1        412.0       461.4        481.9
YEAR       1995-1996         1977        1998         1999        2000   2001-2007         2008         2009        2010         2011   2012-2013
PROD BENEF WITH PROJ           2578.9      2578.9       2578.9      2578.9       2578.9      2578.9       2578.9      2578.9       2578.9      2578.9       2578.9
PROD DENEF WITHOUT PROJ        1790,0      1790.8       1790,8      1790.0       1790.8      1790.8       1790.0      1790.8       1790.8      1790.8       1790,8
INCR PROD BENEFITS              788.2       758,2        708.2       780.2        700.2       708,2        708.2       788,2        788.2       788.2        788.2
PROD COSTS WITH PROJ            751.0       751.0        751.0       751.0        751.0       751.0        751.0       751.0        751.0       751.0        751.0
PROD COSTS WITHOUT PROJ         467.0       467.0        467.0       467.0        467.0       467.0        467.0       467.0        467.0       467.0        467.0
INCR PROD COSTS                 2L$.0       284.0        204.0       284.0        204.0       204.0        284,0       204.0        204.0       284.0        204,0
INVESTMENT CoSTS                    -         5.2          7.3         9.4          3.1           -          5.2         7.3          9.4         3.1            -
088 COSTS                        25.6        25.6         25.6        25.6         25.6        25.6         25,6        25,6         25.6        25.6         23,6
INVEST AND DAM COSTS             25.6        30.8         32.9        35.0         20.7        25.6         30.        32,9         35.0        28.7         25,6
PROJECT BENEFITS                788.2       788.2        788.2       708.2        708.2       788.2        788.2       788.2        788.2       788.2        788.2
TOTAL PRDJECT COSTS             309.6       314.0        316.9       319.0        312.7       309.6        314.0       316.9        319.0       312-7        309.6
NET PROJECT BENEFITS            470.6       473.4        471.3       469.2        475.5       478.6        473.4        471.3       469.2       475.5        478.6
====== ====--=       =====m  ...  .........==    .....-  -  .......=g w... ......... =- ......--=....-.  . ..-....  . "... -..... ..
YEARS ARE FISCAL YEARS ENDING IN JUNE OF THE CALENDAR YEAR SHOWN.
nminY  D,  e"4   1uau



BANGLADESH
WDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
Bighai Rood Protection Subproject
Area-Elevation Distribution as Compared to
Stages of the Bishkholi River at Bamna Stfation
(ft) (rn)                                                                                                               (m) (ft)
I in 20 Year Stage
10--3                                                                                                                   3- -10
c                                                                                                                                c
0                                                                        MeanHVL                                                 0
u-        1                                                                                                                      LU
Mlacn LWL
0                                                                                                                          0
0           2    3      4     5    6      7        A    M       J    J     A     S    0      N    D      j    r    M
Area (1.000 hectares)                                      Month of the Woter Year
Wold Bank-25485



BANGLADESH
WDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
Kalaroa Drainage SuLbproject
Area-Elevation Distributlon as Compared to
Stages of the Betna River at Kaloroa Station
Cm)  (ft.)                                                                                                          (i) (e.)
6   20                                                                                                              20   6
Highest Recorded Stoge
*14.3 t. 4 Sept. 1970
5                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
15                                                                                                            15-
4                                                                                                                        4
Monthly MaxD  WIL
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~om HWL,<                                              
a   10                                                                                                            1-0
2                                                                                                                        2
0                                        I 
5.000       10.000       15,000             A    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    D    J    F   M
Area (Acres)                                          Month of the Water Year
Wotd Bank-25486



-79-
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
Kangsha Rood Projection and Drcinage Subproject
Aot*      on Dfsl,lbutlon as Comnpcred to Rwer Kongsha  Stages
(ft.) (m)                                              (Itt) Cm),
g    t         ~~~~~Retention Volume              2        /4
Q~~~~ ___________________________1n____-_____
40 -`1                                                  40 _41k2
10~                                                       -10-
20            60            10D6 150                       APR    MAY   JUN   JUL   AUG   SEP   OCT   NOV   DEC   JAN    FB             FR
Vdwnre In Poider x106m3                                                            Mnths
It.)   (in)
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
2                            2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                       2     1
4             1    _                                       - -I.      I     I      I      I      I      I.                           
O            5             10            15              APR   MAY   JUN    JUL   AUS    SEP   OCT   NOV    DEC   JAN    FEB    MR
jnea - Ho                                                                     Months
6*-2667



-80-
BANWLADMSH
OWiDO SQMAL SCH.IMES PROJECT
Orgnlzabn of Bangklceh   ai   Devkn nt Board
. OCRtM            a.;,.&t              _      t       C.E., N. C.. Zonog                  C.E Plnnn Ie C11     Plnnn 11 (DFCPmr
1 2 C. Zolea § j Dlr, l J ~~~~~~~Dlr..Planning |WRanr
Dir.1                 J P1_oo  c_nto w                E. .5W. ZonewdWir                     (FAD8):                            Dk. Pu 1
Dnir.h:un |&                           Wae UserlGI                                              Scee|Ie-
Dlr,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(F CIEI,u
k.epafi                                Reeu                  Ptek
|   .. DP- mn Dir..                     Plnnr
Dir.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C.E.. Iwon e 
pfect E-H |
CE.Desbgn &
| El..Gr Bopk
DeIsign 
Add. C.E.
_N,kuhurl
|C.E.. Gwanoes 
EBaft 
jEotfd 0"*-20U9



-81-
BANGLADESH
WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
WDB Organization Chart for Planning and Implernentation of Subprojects
| ret,   Chairnan         l
I  Member,                                                   enbr 
Planning     j _                                     Imnpl_nentot_on    r
Chiet Engineer,
Planfing I
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Deputy Diector.           Assist. Eng.            S uperintofnding
Planning () |(4)                       11Exhe
r l Design    (3)                                    Ex cu{A    E rg
Deputy Diresctor,           Hydolois
| Hydrology(1M                 1   
d  Economist (1)           Jr         3 EcnrLs           ostuto
X  Agronomist (4i 
Worid lBank-25490



BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJEC7
Organizatlon-"Pilot" Decentralized 0 and M Program
Chairman, BWDB
Member  1         Member             Member            Member                   r
Implementton         0 and M            Planning        Administration
Zonal    l
Chief Engineers l
,   I     -                                                                                                        I
Superintending
Engineers _
Exec. Engrs.        Exec. Engrs.
(Implementation)       (O and M)
Sula-Divisionol       Sub-L)iMsionc~F       Sub~-DivisionaI
Engineer (0 and M] |    ngineer (0 Sn(D Engineer (0 and M)
WB-25828



BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule
rscoal Yewr        1983-19U4                   198 -1985                   1985-1986                  1986-1987                   1987-1988                   1988-1939
G roup                               1      2      3    4               2     3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3     4      1      2      3      4      -      2      3      4
_dent-Ication & Screening  ...
4    ,FeuA,b,ilb Sh;t                s_  
o    rnci Design                              _     _
a
2    Land Acquisition & rendeflng
Constructlon_._,._._                                                                     _._.    .,_
I&M                                                                                                        _                              -                  4,   .   _
Uentrrtr &Screemning    *I.... I....  *...
Feas tyb  Svudt
F;  tnal Aceuslon                                               -trnen         -     _ | 'l* ,IIII
ConStruction                            .
O&M                                                                                                                                                                                                            ODI  -  i  -
| dent&fcolion & SC'eening                     S.......         .....
F oeasbIity S|ud                             I|
Rn o Desgn
Lcnz Acusition & Tendenng
Constructio
Laentifiation & Scedening
|__                                                                                    - 1&M                      - -  r   L|1   uk]    lllltr    
1 = JuAV AugoUSt Saprenenn
2 = October No`errbw Decenrb
3 Jonuay rebuav Mach
4 = AVit Mcv urine
Ncl  }av rascn extrinds n 9argicdeshf hon June to Octo4Db                                                                                                                             Wod Bonkk-25587



IBRD 17471
|  90-33                                  4|9040                                     91-4?                                    49I44'                       OCTOBER 193
Proposed Bridre
B tsANJGLADE SH                                                                               Proposed  Streorn Diversion
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT                                                                                 _  Project Boundary
KANGSHA  DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL SUBPROJECT                                                                          .-'r  Proposed Flood Embankment
-   Roads
Rariways
R,vers
Laokes
-                                                                                                       Drainage Chaonnels
Contours irS feet
I  nternratioanl Boundari,es
0         _=                 15        20
/                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
/      JG*                                                                                     _ol r
KoSo.
Chhc,nd          hona  G_hoqo-,o;
Gorkondn
,4   sr hR,rr ..\t
yNc,oyo                                                                            ~o,oho                                                                J
PUh, b
|N@EPAL g \ oD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24-54-
[2 1                  U J   N D I A \n                    v        n/
ft" doc wSt, fini
24N                                  b4in rib 'iro f.i-o'ilp F-u rh
I                 2 31         I use~~~~~~~~~~d -d th, <rxae sr.yN-~
|ND IA                                      r. I -P v.ro - rnorid  iorr nA and ho
hrv,nnr  fri-A -viomoro
I  voin  nairoo.-linhE 1'air                        -
2,,.\     Ocij[ tv /@  y9F40                                   90:42-                                     90*4/



IBRD I17472
89-02'         b9@04'                                  89'0b'              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OC108ER t983
BANGL ADESH
,,                          ~~~BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
.  ;    g                    \ \          ,  F                       ~~~~~~KALAROA  DRAINAGE SUBPROJECT
_   ;;   _                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Peotect Boundory
. 4 ~~~~~~~~~- --;------ \-                                                                              Proposed Bridge
' T,'  -                    1b o,            S     1  \)      j       *       0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Sluice
,   ,  ,,              ~~~~     ~~~t '/       -'                        )}                        -Propose,' Drainage Channels
-2 25$'                   . ,'              ,)vS1                l.                     .      yRivers                                         28'
,    ;b   , 1;                \     , ' C\t    n  ) .'(   /   2t                             -2°   Contours in feet
;            ;    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iteraional Boundaries
!~~~~~~~~~J t                      >'; /' '  '      1      f-                                               Y e ,sSnt6D
\ .,; , ,,- nC - -s \!tX (FW tX w 0' C - o/ he~~~~~MILE
A j r t i !> ) \Ez \\< / - on A- aW ub A~~~~~~~~~~~5                             10          5       0t W 
'.,   ,  /   '  '    '   "' j !'  X  i .  >>q-,>t   ,   ' -4 o'{,(t  __-      ss                \~~~~~fo, h. b,,-ce o th
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n -a '. r,v t* - ft. - \'225
- 24-  <  Dt c<;>o  /    q    24  22-52    2       - e  A                         t{ $    x, \         \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bilofTh V~W a,* ,,d h,
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k(a- FN D I                                                po,)    A    !
88-~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- 90  9?-                                                   lega ta , 890b
14                                   of -Y I-Ion, ~~~~~~~ wy~



____________90__r_90Joa_/_/____10_____I?                                                                                                               -                         IBRD  17473
77Z~~~~ 9     90           9r                 90 "O                                         9O.12                                                                                OTOBER 1933
2                       INDIA                             _ A
24- ~ ~    ~        (                 -22'22
24     <,         Dho.k                 22-
INDIA/
2 2/
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
98*          90            937                                                                                                                                         A            
_.  _   ___                 g                                                      J                              /hv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oJI./,  ,
23' iO                                                                                                                                                                                       22-20.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IX 
17.k ~  ~       ~        ~       t/Sao,              \   \(                                           ,
vA'o/,kbo\
-22'16'                                                                                                                                                                                        31
BANGL ADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
BIGHAI FLOOD CONTROL SUBPROJECT
Proiect Boundo,y
Proposed  Flood Embankment
Proposed  Slu,ces
E.,st.ng Flood  Emnbonkment
R,ve,s ond  Streoms
Roads
Contours *n feet
:s <   Xrsoeb  CA   |                               2-'
2214             -  -   Inter-othonol Boundor,es
S 10                 1 5        20 MTILES           r     b   p,- d by Th. rb W   n.*1fd O lW .oo& ,eyr ror Ur t rhroro.ne O
rn~ ,ooor  .o   - eCt,-.w  for i  rtrOO  on of Fro ., Ab   B.*-  V* IoroOOo.
F-roox: C    o  the rt orroso  rd n V 0,en,r,o W--r or  nUP d roo
000*P _n rho Coti of TI,i Y.tyd S.* nd fP. 64-oo.trwn F-no G.rporU800. 0,,9 ir,-Of
0,0 lovrM othnar of n -'fooy rw .od-roOronl or rr -Ot.-of bar h bo.n0O
90'06                                          90-08                                          9010'                                          90t2



IBRD  17474
,, ,   __   ,, .                  _                                                                                                                                        OC1O3ER 1983
1-~ SRSI                                                                                                                                        BANGLADESH
-26- ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 6
I N D I A                                                                                    BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
CHENCHURI BEEL IRRIGATION SUBPROJECT
- ;71-      3        Dohc                    a             ,/                               <
I N D I A    5<;)h                            t                    
72     (ic                                     I                                            CAc.rnd,ba,puw
SB            90,            92'         _
Ganoadho,bolha/,
Bodho
t orngalgrom
Belelgorden
Ptaject Boundary                                    d       KrynmO/OPU
Existing   Ernbon'xment
Proposed  Pump.ng Stotion
Proposed  Momn  Conol
TypcoIl lrngotion  Scheme
2 C/S Ou/fIT 1-            <F10 CHANNVVr
~j se ACM/S N/f 1R/GOA7,0"N
- - AA M/I C AAIVAl                                                  Ghosbp
Proposed  Droinoge Chonne.s                                          )       h                                                                              Mu/dO,
Dro lnsr 
River                                                                                                                                                      Kuvhedongo
Contours  n feet
Roods
International  Boundaries
0                       5                      10                       5
Th ' ,r"'   hs,a irn m  Np-rd by Th. World B-ank s AlOt  tS,vc'fiVr toW the COhI-0nhnfC ol
lhn  .ndo,s a y,n rrt-s.rroy to, ta nWtorrran ue AOf TheM Woral fank anthe Mo tAr.lfnU n
'-at  a Careort.rnn Th. dco,rn, bo,,S userd and the bOrrdounM S Snow n . mani do o el
erOif On ttr Pora oA ;li;,.r WorkA B-.oA m) Ihb wi?ryri,&o  rnn-rr Corphon. any Imigri'nt
oA. hnIr on, 5talu, u any t-rylor-y or any enorase-lnt Ar accuQtflACo of Such bOomda-3eS



,Qt           i4°~~~9                       90°l                          '                             9:|2
[                  890                                                       BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
-Fa?    T    |o Gouha,       Subproject Locations
ro Goh ti           _t° SUBPROJECT LOCATIONS
-26      w q     4hoklurgoobn                         \                            Financed by:                                             26-
.FAD
IDA
ADB
To A'oi,h0,                                                                     7  ~\~} __1 ESP
DIIsL4)2vPUR 5<  |   {  \iS    51  - .                   - ~ROADS
-4---$-- |RAILWAYS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
* INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-250                                                                                 AKangshc Drainage          hhato            *2
BOG    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ JFodControl                                      T
SolS to                         ( l           <\   r                            -      -                  r0 Si/chor
z   t                     V            X  sMbEN9NGH                    . .        .              / MYIEi
%       V          gT)A~~~NGAIL       2        Xr                       '    5
-240                                                                             ur                                                         24°-
i       ,J    <           -      -XKf >~~KSHTA                                                        i N   D  I A               
A  ~           ~ND 
<t _                                           F/ ARIDPUR (\
-23'             ;o                             e Chenchuri Bil 'rtion                                    F23'
CO/Clvto .\  A , 
H  t   P    M~HULNA                \-\
\,/,'a/oroa Draino'a      ,            \                                      ,    RANGAMATI 
1-240                 \           ~             Ish)                      ABA}  Joydebpur                  ,                                 2401



42'                                                                                                                                                                                24ou
KUSHTIA                                           m~~~~~~~hfan an6iia)y             I N    D    I  A
<                                |                    \FARIDPUR                       f                     \
n         JESSORE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~la sham
_23                                                                                                                                                                          23 ' '  \y\
-233                 To T                    (                 Chenchuri Bit ,'rri   on                                                                                          230
} 9gv       tHULNA                    ,\\  
./i, S   KalK roo  Drah\t
RANGAMATI
C-                                      *                        '                                                            \d  ,  i
- s. 'r.35 Cy S   DtCJ    by eS                           ..';1 1
_ t<,;. 7 n 7rk s ,~~~~~ ex>*b. weAt   ?    !                                                   t~~~HtTTA6E)G      (\
<_ ,-,3r'eCeevl tARe          .Bi 67/ghai Flood  Control                                                                    C- AI
a : 7''r meratcra: F .,,ane        )
Wec,~.eW3, cs                                                       .f
rt'h'S "30 do0 "0t 'mr or he                                                                                                                                                  22t
C ai  "e iio'Sd 6Ea3k aV'de Jh
*'ea ' n-. rce ceposwnoo
1 "e" 5- 3.' t'?ega Stjfes
0             25              50             75 MILES                  N                     BURMA
I              I              I              i                                             ;                2r
-21°                      r                  1                                                                                        2 I   > 
0                 50                 100 KILOMETERS                                                           > C)  ,
(cLi
SR! LANKA                                                      900                                   91,
1¢     ~ _.       __________                                                          900                                    91N 920



