Document of
The World Bank
!FIt  00'PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-377O-BI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 40.2 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
April 12, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1   =  Taka 25.0
Taka 1 = US$ 0.04
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BADC     -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BRDB     -  Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BWDB     -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
DAE      -  Directorate of Agriculture Extension
DOF      -  Department of Fisheries
GOB      -  Government of Bangladesh
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
IMP      -  Irrigation Management Program
IWDFC    -  Irrigation, Water Development and Food Control Division
of Ministry of Agriculture
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
O and M  -  Operation and Maintenance
PPS III  -  Project Planning Schemes III Directorate
SDR      -  Special Drawing Rights
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                SDR 40.2 million (US$41.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The project would: (a) increase agricultural production
by increasing the area under high-yielding rice and
wheat cultivation through improved drainage and/or
irrigation and by reducing crop losses from flooding;
(b) strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) to (i) imple-
ment small schemes and (ii) carry out Operation and
Maintenance (O and M) for large schemes; and (c)
support the transfer of 0 and M responsibilities
of small schemes to local bodies. The project would
include about 30 quick yielding, low cost per acre,
and high rate of return flood control, drainage and
irrigation subprojects. The project would support
improvements on about 225,000 acres. Over 80,000 farm
families, or nearly 480,000 people, would directly
benefit.
Risks:                 Implementation delays due to land acquisition problems
are a risk facing the project. To reduce this risk,
the land needed for the subprojects being
implemented during a construction season would be
acquired before the beginning of that
season. Another risk is that subprojects would not
gain the full support of the population concerned. To
mininmize this risk, subproject selection guidelines
would require that beneficiaries had indicated strong
support for and were prepared to participate in
implementation and subsequent 0 and M of the
subprojects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-.  l -
Estimated Proiect
Costs: 1/
Local Foreign Total
(US$ million)
Flood Control and Drainage         15.8      4.6    20.4
Irrigation                          7.9      2.8    10.7
Strengthening BWDB                  8.2      2.7    10.9
Base Costs                         31.9    10.1    42.0
Phys. Contingencies                 3.2      1.0      4.2
Price Contingencies                 8.9      2.9    11.8
Total Project Costs                44.0    14.0    58.0
Financing Plan:
Local  Foreign  Total
(US$ million)
GOB                                11.0        -      11.0
Farmers                             3.2        -       3.2
IDA                                28.4      13.1    41.5
UNDP                                1.4       0.9      2.3
Total                              44.0      14.0    58.0
Estimated
Disbursements:          Fiscal Year   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
(US$ million)
Annual          4.3    9.7   10.4    9.6    6.2    1.3
Cumulative      4.3   14.0   24.4   34.0   40.2   41.5
Economic Rate
of Return:              30% (based on four appraised subprojects).
Staff Appraisal
Report:                 Bangladesh: BWDB Small Schemes Project
Report No. 4815-BD, dat(ed April 10, 1984.
1/ Includes approximately US$2.7 million in taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECU'TIVE ])IRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 40.2 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$41.5 million), on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) Small Schemes Project.
Parallel financing in the form of a grant of about US$2.3 million equivalent
would be made by the UNDP.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Recent Economic Trends and
Medium-Term Development Issues," (Report No. 4822-BD, dated February 27,
1984) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country witb very high population density and widespread
poverty (annual income per head averages about US$140 at present). The
economy, dominated by agriculture, remains acutely vulnerable to disruption
by both natural and external factors. Considerable progress has been made in
increasing the availability of irrigation and other inputs, but foodgrain
production remains heavily dependent on weather conditions and falls short of
total needs. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability complicate fiscal
management due to the need to manage public foodgrain stocks and often impose
an additional strain on the balance of payments.
4.      The economy is also characterized by very low savings, reflecting the
low level of incomes, and by a very large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a small fraction of investment (which has
averaged around 16% of GDP in recent years). Export earnings cover less than
30% of the import bill, and over 60% of merchandise exports are accounted for
by raw jute and jute goods. The resource gap of around 15% of GDP is
financed by workers' remittances, which have risen rapidly to over 5% of GDP
in recent years, and by foreign assistance of around 10% of GDP per year.
The capacity for imports can be sharply affected by a combination of factors
which are beyond the control of the Government and whose disruptive effect on
the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of the Government's revenue
11 Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Second Agricultural Research Project
(Report No. P-3749-BD) dated March 12, 1984.



-2-
base on import duties and sales taxes (together accounting for 60% of tax
revenues).
5.      In spite of these problems, the late 1970s were a period of political
stability and economic consolidation and provided an opportunity to plan for
longer-term development. GDP growth of close to 6% p.a. from FY75 to FY80
was accompanied by rising public investment, financed by a substantial real
increase in aid disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and exter-
nal events during FY81 and FY82 disrupted the momentum of development. The
corrective actions taken in FY83 have, however, been reasonably successful in
stabilizing the short-term external and budgetary situation and, despite the
severe limits on available resources, there are prospects for renewed modest
economic growth.
Recent Economic Developments
6.      From FY80 to FY82, a sharp decline in export prices of raw jute and
jute products and of major non-traditiornal exports, combined with rising
import prices (especially for petroleum) to cause a decline of over 30% in
Bangladesh's terms of trade. At the same time, external aid inflows, which
had risen steadily until FY80, declined in FY81; they recovered in FY82, but
only to 4% above FY79 flows in real terms. Prolonged drought adversely
affected the FY82 and FY83 crops. The shortfall in FY82 foodgrain production
(0.4 million tons or 3% below FY81 levels) led to high food prices and a
substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to well below the
level considered sufficient for food security. Substantial commercial
foodgrain imports were required, imposing furt:her strain on the balance of
payments, while reduced agricultural production and incomes depressed demand
and activity in other sectors.
7.      During FY81, the Government attempted to cope with the intensifying
external resource constraint by resorting to short-term commercial
borrowings, short-term deposits from and currency swaps with other central
banks, some run-down of reserves, and assistance from the IMF under an
Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement concluded in December 1980.
However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in July 1981, as the Government
incurred a large bank-financed budget delicit and credit ceilings agreed with
the IMF could not be met. In FY82 the Government sought to contain import
growth through a variety of measures, including a substantial depreciation of
the Taka by 22% against the US dollar. Nevertheless, despite an increase in
workers' remittances, from $210 million in FY80 to over $400 million in FY82,
and further short-term borrowing, foreign exchange reserves declined to about
US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks' imports) by the end of FY82.
8.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate also had a major
adverse impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government receipts
of local counterpart funds were reduced as a result of declining commodity
aid flows, as were its receipts from import dut:ies and sales taxes. These
problems were exacerbated by inadequate financial planning and by poor finan-



-3-
cial performance of public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and
delays in increasing sales prices. A budget deficit of Tk 5 billion (2.5% of
GNP) emerged in FY81 even though the Annual Development Program (ADP) was
cut back by 12% in the second half of FY81. Despite a simnilar cutback in the
FY82 ADP, recourse to substantial bank financing was avoided only because of
a run-down of public food stocks following poor harvests. Nevertheless, a
sharp rise in foodgrain prices in mid-FY82, combined with the inflationary
pressures caused by exchange rate depreciation and a rapid expansion of
domestic liquidity in late FY81, resulted in a 15% rise in the consumer
prices during FY82.
9.      The Government introduced a wide range of austerity measures with its
FY83 budget (in July 1982), designed to adjust the economy to the serious
resource constraints. Development expenditure plans for FY83 were reduced by
nearly 20%, in line with expected resource availabilities, and the increase
in recurrent expenditures was limited to 14%, only slightly above the
forecast inflation level.  The Government also introduced new tax measures
designied to yield about 0.5% of GDP in FY83. In addition, a number of sub-
stantial subsidy and pricing adjustments were made to reduce consumption,
protect investments and to improve the financial performance of public sector
enterprises and utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing and subsidy
reduction measures amounted to an impressive 2.5% of GDP, Measures were also
taken to improve balance of payments management, including a further 11%
depreciation of the exchange rate during FY83, higher import duty rates,
financing the import of more commodities through the Wage Earners' Scheme,l/
abolition of selected export duties and improvements in export financing.
IM@ assistance to Bangladesh was resumed under a Stand-by Arrangement in
March 1983 which covered the period until August 1983.
10.     While these measures were effective in helping to restore short-term
economic stability, their effect, combined with depressed private sector
demand following poor harvests during 1982, resulted in low GDP growth (2.4%)
in FY82, following a 1.5% decline in FY82.  The budgetary situation in FY83
was satisfactory, due to resource mobilization efforts, the depreciation of
the Taka which largely offset the negative budgetary impact of reduced import
volumes, further foodgrain sales, and increased commodity aid disbursements.
The balance of payments was helped by a recovery in aid levels, better terms
of trade resulting from lower petroleum and food import prices, depressed
import volumes, and a further growth of remittances to around US$600 million.
Foreign exchange reserves increased to US$340 million, representing about six
weeks- import equivalent, by the end of FY83. Following good winter crops,
foodgrain production for FY83 reached a record 15.1 million tons and infla-
tionary pressures eased. Whiile the short-term outlook has improved, the
1/ Under the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES), foreign exchange earnings
remitted bv Bangladeshi workers abroad are sold in auction to importers
requiring foreign exchange.



-4-
resource constraints remain severe, calling for a continuation of cautious
macro-economic policies and consistent efforts to strengthen the productive
sectors, and further resource mobilization.
11.     The FY84 budget reflects the need to consolidate the gains made last
year and to set the stage for a broadened domestic revenue mobilization
effort in the future. The total tax effort is expected to increase from
about 8.3% of GDP in FY83 to 9.0% in FY84. Domestic taxes, which accounted
for 3.6% of GDP in FY83, will generate only 3.4% of GDP in FY84 (mainly due
to the rapid growth in the lightly taxed agricultural sector in FY84), but
new tax measures have been introduced whose full revenue impact will be felt
only in FY85 and thereafter. Recurrent expenditures will again be tightly
controlled, and the current budget surplus should increase substantially.
The ADP is budgeted at over Tk 34.8 billion (5% higher in real terms than
the actual FY83 ADP). Resources not generatec by external aid inflows will
finance 19.2% of the ADP: this represents only 2.2% of GDP and highlights
the urgency of mobilizing more domiestic resources for development financing.
A Core Program of 435 projects has been specif'ied, accounting for 73% of the
ADP and providing ample room for adjusting expenditures to actual resource
availabilities.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
12.     The Second Five-Year Plan for FY81-85 accords highest priority to
to (i) reducing population growth Jrom the present rate 2.6% p.a.,
(ii) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency, (iii) eliminating mass illiteracy,
and (iv) accelerating domestic energy development.  IDA has assisted the
Government in preparing the Medium--Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP)
which aims at increasing foodgrain production to 20 million tons. Foodgrain
self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of the decade with appropriate
producer incentives, resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and an
expanded role for the private sector in the provision and servicing of modern
agricultural implements and inputs. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate
(74%), the Plan's emphasis on primary education is well founded, but the goal
of achieving universal primary education by 1985 is unattainable in view of
resource and managerial constraints. Prospects for achieving the objectives
of educational expansion and improved foodgrain availability would be
improved by success in reducing the population growth rate; this will requirie
more determined efforts than have been made thus far, especially with regard
to birth control efforts which have suffered from poor implementation and
have had only limited success. The Government has recently taken steps to
coordinate its birth control activities and to strengthen training programs
for field staff. A medium-term implementation plan for the population sector
is currently being prepared with Bank assistance.
13.     There is an urgent need to develop the country's energy resources_
particularly natural gas, since imported petroLeum at present pre-empts about:
three quarters of merchandise export earnings. Ongoing and planned invest-
ments in the energy sector are designed to increase the production, distribu--



-5-
tion and utilization of natural gas as a substitute for imported fuel,
including studies aimed at determining the potential for future investments
in gas-based export industries. The recently approved Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project will assist the Government to appraise more fully the
country's gas reserves, determine the optimal pace of exploitation, and help
renew the interest of foreign. oil companies to resume the search for oil.
Since the required investments are likely to be capital-intensive and lumpy,
they would need to be properly planned under a phased priority program. The
Government has been slow to recognize this need, but is now endeavoring (with
IDA and ADB assistance) to formulate an appropriate energy sector investment
program. The implementation of appropriate energy conservation measures and
the setting of energy prices at economically efficient levels will also be
critical.
14.     There is also an urgent need to address directly the growing problems
of rural poverty and unemployment.. Fifty percent of the rural population is
functionally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated sig-
nificantly since the 1970s with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force
finding gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not
suffice to resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large
projected growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously,
therefore, to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry
and non-foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- espe-
cially small-scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated in one
sub-sector will generate effective demand for the output of others.
15.     Studies of the industrial sector have highiighted the distorting
effects of existing trade and industrial policies on resource allocation in
the sector. An ongoing program of studies is expected to lead to a medium-
term program of actions to be implemented -- including modifications in the
existing tariff structure, domestic indirect taxation, investment incentives,
export policies, and the mechanisms for industrial promotion and planning.
The Government's New Industrial Policy, announced in 1982, provides for a
greater role of the private sector in economic development. Many of the key
elements of this policy are already being implemented, including the divest-
ment of major segments of the jute and textile industries to the private
sector.
16.     The Government has revised the Second Five-Year Plan in the light of
the sharp deterioration of the external environment, and its recent Annual
Development Programs (ADPs) have reflected more realistic assessments of
likely resource availability. A "core program" of projects amounting to
around 75% of the ADP has been identified to ensure that high-priority
activities are not disrupted by possible further adjustments to changing
circumstances. This approach has already helped project implementation
during FY83, but it should be recognized that the investment program is
extremely small in relation to the total needs of the economy. As external
assistance will continue to be constrained, there is an urgent need for a
sustained and intensive domestic resource mobilization effort, consistent



-6-
with the initiative taken in the FY83 budget to raise tax revenues, reduce
subsidies and improve the financial performance of public enterprises. In
the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to reduce its present
dependence on import duties, thereby improving the elasticity of the tax
system. In addition, private savings should be stimulated through
appropriate interest rate policies and improvements in the banking and credit
system.
17.     Realization of the Government's objectives will also require improve-
ments in development administration.  There i.s a critical need to strengthen
the capacity for policy formulation and project implementation, streamline
administrative procedures, and improve decision making processes.
Recognizing that local government bodies can play an effective role in the
development effort, the Government has decided to decentralize a number of
planning and administrative functions to the up-graded Thana (Sub-District)
level. Accordingly, sub-district administrations are being reorganized and
strengthened to enable them to talce on most development activities at the
local level. The implementation and impact of this policy will need to be
closely monitored.
External Debt
18.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium-- and long-term (M&LT) debts has not
been a major problem in the past, but will become a heavier burden in the
next few years as debts incurred in the first years after independence are
increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on external
public M&LT debt are expected to rise from 6.8% of export earnings (goods and
services, including workers' remittances) in FY82 to 11.8% in FY84 and 13.7%
in FY86. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt servicing obligations
will remain modest over this period, rising slowly from 9.7% of the total in
FY83 to 10.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's sharfe of total debt outstanding and
undisbursed is projected to increase from 30.4% in FY82 to 36.3% in FY86.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$146.2 million,, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan (US$54.9 million) and credit
(US$31.04 million) to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence were approved in 1974. As of
September 30, 1983, 72 new credits have been approved, totaling US$2,400.64
million; of these, US$862.03 million have been for import credits (eleven
imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of
September 30, 1983. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member. of the IFC,



-7-
and two investments (for a shipbuilding company and an investment promotion
company) have been approved.
20.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(22 of the projects approved as of September 30, 1983, and two fertilizer
import credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities3 In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining
the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is
assisting in rural electrification and elimination of shortages of generation
capacity and distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to
utilization of existing industrial capacity. Assistance for developing
telecommunications is designed to improve the efficiency of a wide-range of
economic and social activities.
21.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eleven imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project,
several DFC and small-scale industry projects and two IFC investments.
22,     The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making somne progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
23.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints t;hat included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA
and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision
in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assis-
tance both under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to
improve planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
24,     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.



- 8-
PART III - FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION
25.     Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh, accounting for about
52% of GDP, 75% of all employment and over 80% of the country's exports.
More than 95 million people live in the delta of three of the world's largest
rivers, on an area of 14.3 million. hectares, a third of which is flooded
every year. About 9 million hectares are cultivated with a cropping inten-
sity of about 150% per year.  Fragmentation of landholdings has resultec  in
almost half of the farms being less than 1 hectare, mostly divided into
several scattered plots. Agriculture is therefore predominantly subsistence
oriented. The population continues to grow al: about 2.6% per annum, and the
intense pressure on the 'Limited land resources continues to increase.
Bangladesh suffers from a chronic shortage of food both for humans and
livestock. Annual food production varies greatly, largely depending upon
the vagaries of the weather, particularly the onset and termination of mon-
soon rains and the intensity of thie dry season.  It is a major objective or
the Government's development program to achieve self sufficiency in food
production through expanded use of appropriate technology (high yielding
varieties of seeds, fertilizer, and irrigation.) supported by appropriate
extension, research and credit services.
26..    In the late 1960's and earLy 1970's, the Government of Bangladesh
(GOB) undertook a number of major irrigation schemes with IDA support.  Large
irrigation schemes which have received IDA financing include the Chandpur
Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD) 1/, Barisal Irrigation Project (Cr.
542-BD), Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Cr. 605-BD) and Muhuri Irrigation
Project (Cr. 725-BD). In recent years, the Government has been giving high
priority to the expansion of minor irrigation to tap the large groundwater
supplies in Bangladesh and to the development of low capital cost, quick-
yielding and high rate of return flood control and drainage schemes. IDA has
been supporting these efforts through a number of projects. IDA support for
minor irrigation includes such projects as Hand Tubewells Project
(Cr. 1140-BD), Agriculture Credit (Credit 1147-BD), and Deep Tubewells
Project (Cr. 1287-BD). Based on the recommendations of a joint GOB/IDA
review of the minor irrigation sector in FY82, the Government is shifting
responsibility for fielding and operating small-scale irrigation equipment
increasingly to the private sector. The Bangladesh Agriculture Development
Corporation (BADC) is mainly responsible for the minor irrigation system,
i.e. low-lift pumps, shallow and deep tubewells. IDA has also been support-
ing flood control and drainage through such projects as Drainage and Flood
Control II (Cr. 1184-BD) and the Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control
1/ Project Performance Audit Report, Bangladesh Chandpur II Irrigation
Project, (Credit 340-BD), March 25, 1981.



-9-
(Cr. 955-BD). The Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project is similar
to the proposed project but has no irrigation component and has smaller
subprojects. Out of 40 subprojects under construction, 19 have been substan-
tially completed. Slower than expected implementation has been due to delays
in design work, the tendering process, land acquisition and procurement.
However, these problems have now been largely resolved and the pace of
project implementation is i.mproving. The Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB) is the agency responsibility for planning, construction, operating and
maintaining all food control and drainage schemes, and major and medium
irrigation schemes.
Irrigation Management Program
27.     An Irrigation Management Program (IMP) was introduced in the
IDA-financed Rural Development Project (Cr. 631-BD) in 1979/80 to maximize
utilization of irrigation capacity and minimize operation cost of minor
irrigation equipment. Under this program, field officers of the Bangladesh
Rural Development Board (BIRDB), the Department of Agriculture Extension (DAE)
and BADC are jointly responsible for supporting cooperatives to carry out the
following essential features: (a) preparation of plans for better water
management; (b) organizing cooperative meetings; (c) training; (d) laying
of irrigation channels; (e) preparation of irrigation budgets; and
(f) obtaining credit for production costs. During its first years of
implementation, IMP increased the area serviced within the command areas,
farmers participation, and yields. Because of the promising results, GOB has
decided to replicate this program on a nationwide basis.
Sector Planning and Strengthening of BWDB
28.     In 1979, there was a joint GOB/IDA review of BWDB which recommended:
(a) improving water sector planning, (b) strengthening the implementation
capacity of BWDB; and (c) rehabilitating operating BWDB schemes. As a
result, UNDP financed, with the Bank serving as Executing Agency, two
projects: Improving Water Sector Planning and Strengthening the
Implementation Capacity of BWDB. Under the first project, revised procedures
for planning water sector projects were adopted. The project also prepared
terms of reference for a Water Sector Master Planning Program, which resulted
in a third UNDP-financed and Bank-executed project, initiated in January
1983, to prepare a water sector master plan and develop a permanent Master
Planning Organization. The Strengthening of the Implementation Capacity of
BWDB project proposed programs to: (a) establish the position of Member,
Operations and Maintenance (O and M) 1/ and a separate 0 and M unit at the
divisional level in BWDB; (b) provide greater delegated authority to Zonal
Chief Engineers and staffs; and (c) identify problems resulting from deferred
1/ A Member of the Bangladesh Water Development Board has the rank of a
Deputy or Joint Secreltary and has administrative responsibilities.



-10-
maintenance.  The Government and BWDB have followed through on these
recommendations. A Member, 0 and M, has been appointed to BWDB, additional
delegation of authority to field staff has been instituted, and an assessment
of needs for rehabilitating operating sclhemes is now being undertaken.
Operation and Maintenance of BWDB Schemes
29.      BWDB has responsibility for 0 and M for all of its projects.  Funding
for 0 and M comes from the Government's revenue budget. The growing number
of irrigation projects which BWDB has completed over the past two decades has
resulted in increased 0 and M costs. To date, cost recovery from the
beneficiaries has been practically nil because of a reluctance to collect
water charges. Hence, implementation and 0 and M costs continue to burden
the Government's budget. Cost recovery of water subsector projects has been
a continuing subject of discussion between GOB and IDA. Recently, GOB has
taken steps to begin recovering costs from the farmers. The Irrigation Water
Rate Ordinance 1983, which was promulgated in July 1983, and the Irrigation
Water Rates Rules, 1984, which came into effect in January 1984, provide for
the imposition of water charges for irrigation schemes (see paragraph 52).
Inadequate funding in the Government's revenue budget has been one of the
main reasons for the extensive deferred maintenance of BWDB schemes, which
has resulted in inefficient operation and reduction in benefits. In addition
to a lack of funds, 0 and M has suffered because of neglect by field staff
who have concentrated their efforts on implementation. Under the proposed
project, BWDB, with the approval of' the Irrigation, Water Development and
Flood Control Division (IWDFC) in the Ministry of Agriculture, plans to
improve 0 and M for large schemes by decentralizing the BWDB organization
in four pilot divisions under its Member, 0 and M (see paragraph 36). GOB
is also planning to transfer the responsibility for 0 and M for small
schemes, including collection of water charges for irrigation schemes, to the
Upazila Parishad (upgraded Thana) administration (see paragraphs 17 and 37).
PART IV - THE; PROJECT
30.      The proposed project was prepared by BWDB, assisted by consultants,
and was appraised by an IDA mission that visited Bangladesh in June 1983.
A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 4815-BD, dated April 10, 1984) is being
distributed separately. A timetable of key events relating to the project
and special conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washington in February, 1984. The Government of Bangladesh was
represented by a delegation led by Dr. S.H.K. Eusufzai, Member, Planning
Commission.



-11-
Project Obiectives and Description
31.     The objectives of the project are:  (a) increased agricultural
production by expanding areas under high-yielding rice and wheat cultivation
through improved drainage and irrigation, and by reducing crop losses through
the provision of increasedl flood control; (b) the strengthening of BWDB's
implementation capacity for small schemes and 0 and M for large schemes; and
(c) support of the transfer of 0 and M responsibilities for completed small
schemes to local bodies.
32.     The project would include about 30 quick-yielding, low cost per acre,
and high rate of return flood control, drainage, and irrigation subprojects.
Among these subprojects would be a number that had been appraised by IDA for
possible inclusion in the Small. Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation
Project financed by IFAD but which had to be omitted because they could not
be accommodated within the limits of IFAD's available resources. The total
number of subprojects to be completed would be flexible depending upon their
size and type. With the flood protection measures envisaged, flooding cannot
be totally avoided since rainfall would cause flooding when sluice gates are
closed during high flood stage. However, the severity of such flooding would
be significantly reduced, compared to "without project" conditions. Drainage
schemes would be undertaken on lands with no flooding problems or combined
with flood protection measures.. Such schemes would permit adequate rainwater
storage in depressions (beels) or drainage channels (khals) to meet planned
irrigation and fishery requirements. Irrigation schemes would be based on
primary pumping from adjacent rivers or khals to a system of irrigation
channels which would deliver water to farmers' fields by gravity.  This would
permit a second crop in the dry season. Farm ditches for distribution of
water beyond the outlets of the channel system and farm drainage channels
would be included under the scheme and detailed layouts would be prepared.
Proiect Components
33.     Small Schemes Subprojects.  There would be four major divisions of
subprojects: (a) flood control and drainage; (b) drainage alone; (c) flood
control alone; and (d) irrigation.  The subproject mix (eight flood control
and drainage, about 64,000 acres; eight drainage, 78,000 acres; six flood
control, 59,000 acres; and five irrigation, 24,000 acres) used in the for-
mulation of the project is based on a preliminary list of BWDB-identified
schemes. To avoid delays in project implementation, the Government engaged a
consulting firm which has prepared feasibility studies for ten subprojects of
which six have been selecl:ed for the first year of implementation. Four
feasibility studies were available at appraisal: the Kangsha River sub-
project (flood control and drainage), the Kalaroa subproject (drainage), the
Bighai River subproject (flood control), and the Chenchuri subproject
(irrigation). These four subprojects were used as typical examples to
estimate overall costs and benefits of the project. Feasibility studies for
the remaining subprojects would be financed under the proposed project (see
paragraph 35).



-12-
34.     The criteria which would serve as broad guidelines for selecting
subprojects would include: (a) base costs of about US$2.4 million or less;
(b) base costs of drainage and flood control subprojects of about US$150 per
acre or less; (c) base costs of irrigation subprojects including field
channels of about US$400 per acre or less;, (d) size of benefited area for
drainage and flood control to range between 2,500 and 20,000 acres, and for
irrigation between 1,000 and 10,000 acres; (e) flood depth in flood protec-
tion schemes not to exceed 4.5 ft. over 80% of the area; (f) landholding
patterns in the subproject areas which would permit a large number of farmers
to benefit; at least 70% of the farm families would operate holdings of three
acres or less; (g) a maximum of two construction seasons for completion of
civil works; (h) beneficiaries would. indicate strong general support for the
subproject and be prepared to participate actively in its implementation,
including providing funds for on-farm deve!lopment in irrigation subprojects
and subsequent 0 and M; and (i) a subproject's economic rate of return would
be at least 20%. The Government would select the subprojects in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.02 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).  Subprojects which fully meet the guidelines could be
started without prior IDA approval.  GOB would, however, send the feasibiility
report to IDA.  In the case of subprojects with proposed works of improvement
which may affect the flow of international streams, IDA would not be able to
finance such subprojects unless there was a pritDr agreement amongst the
countries concerned. When a subproject does not meet the guidelines fully,
the feasibility report would need to justify its inclusion in the project and
IDA concurrence would be obtained before work is started.
35.     Strengthening BWDB Implementation Capacitv.  The project would
provide assistance to BWDB in the areas of planning, design and construction.
To strengthen BWDB's capability to implement the proposed project and future
projects of a similar nature, the project would provide: (a) technical assis-
tance for preparation of feasibility studies, designs and monitoring and
evaluation; (b) technical assistance for construction supervision;
(c) training of BWDB's project personnel; and, (d) transport and office
equipment. Field staff associated with the Zonal Chief Engineers generally
have the capacity to implement the simple subprojects envisioned for the
proposed project. Experience in Bangladesh with similar projects indicates
that one of the main constraints to timely implementation has been completion
of feasibility plans and final designs for construction. The estimated
technical assistance requirement for completing required feasibility studies
is about 24 man-months of expatriate and about 168 man-months of local
experts. To overcome the design constraint, BW.DB has established a Design
Cell in its Project Planning Schemes III Directorate (PPS III). Detailed
design of subprojects would be the responsibility of this cell, which would
be assisted by about 36 man-months of expatriate and 800 man-months local
experts. Technical assistance for construction planning and construction
supervision is estimated at about 90 man-months of local experts. For the
evaluation of the proiect's impact, separate lozal consultants would be
employed. The Government would, by January 1, 1985, employ consultants whose



-13-
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Training of BWDB staff would include workshops, seminars, and visits to
similar projects. The program would include centralized workshops at Dhaka
for senior staff, regional seminars for the field staff on the pattern of the
on-going program under the Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project
(Credit 955-BD), and overseas training in specialized areas.
36.     Strengthening BWDB 0 and M Capacity.  The project would provide
funding for a Pilot Decentralized 0 and M Program in four divisions in line
with the program envisaged in the Strengthening of the Implementation
Capacity of BWDB Project (see paragraph 28). This program would assign full
O and M responsibility of all large scale BWDB operational projects within a
division to specific staff and would provide this staff with adequate funds
to carry out their responsibilities. The staff of these divisions would
devote themselves almost exclusively to improvement of system performance
through routine and protective maintenance. Their planning and construction
responsibilities would be limited generally to rehabilitation of operating
schemes. This divisional staff would include an Executive Engineer,
Subdivisional officers, and support staff, including pump and gate operators
at the Subdivisional level. The project would provide required transport,
equipment materials, and labor. Also, the project would provide a limited
amount of technical assistance (about four man-months expatriate experts) to
help the staff in planning and carrying out their assigned responsibilities.
It is envisaged that implementation of this program would begin with one
"pilot" division becoming operational during FY85 and the remaining three
becoming operational in FY86. BWDB would submit a detailed program of work
and staff requirements for each "pilot" area, for comment by IDA, by
January 1, 1985 for the first division and by July 1, 1985 for the remaining
three divisions (Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Experience from the pilot areas would be reviewed and would be used as input
into a wider program of BWDB systems rehabilitation which may be assisted by
IDA.
37.     The Government intends to make 0 and M of small subprojects (as
included in the proposed project) the responsibility of beneficiaries to be
administered through the responsible Upazila,l/ but details have yet to be
worked out. Such transfer of 0 and M responsibility would, however, take
time and until it is completed, BWDB would continue to be responsible. The
Government would furnish to IDA, by January 1, 1986, for comment, detailed
proposals for the gradual transfer of responsibility for 0 and M of the
facilities included in the Project to the Upazilas (Section 4.02 (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government would also ensure that
1/ The Upazila (an up-graded thana) is a unit of local government with an
elected council comprised of 6-15 unions. (A union is made up of 6-12
villages).



-14-
adequate funds will be allocated out of its budget for the 0 and M of the
subprojects (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Deve:Lopment Credit Agreement).
Also, in view of the Governiment's current financial constraints, IDA would
include reimbursement of 0 and M expenditures for the subprojects on a
declining basis under the proposed project (see paragraph 48).
Proiect. IMlementation
38.     BWDB would be the principal implementing agency, responsible for the
design, construction, operiation and maintenance of all the project works.
For the construction of on-farm irrigation, and drainage ditches, the cost of
which is .o be borne by the farmers, IMP would 'provide the necessary techni-
cal assistance (see paragraph 27). BWDB would be responsible for the design
and layouit of the farm irrigation ditches and farm drainage channels in
irrigation subprojects and, upon agreement by the beneficiaries to bear the
cost of on-farm development and the 0 and M costs, supervise the construction
and synchronize the completion of the ditches and channels with the comple-
tion of the main system (Section 3.07(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreeraent). Under the Chief Engineer, Planning I in BWDB, the PPB III would
be re,ponsible for the coordination of planning and implementation. A design
cell which has been created within PPS III' has begun the preparation of
detailed desig-.s (see paragraphs 35 and 41). The implementation of the Pilot
Ylecertralized 0 and M Program would be the responsibility of the Member, 0
39.     Coordination at the National Level  The existing Departmental Project
Evaluation Committee in the Division of Irrigation, Water Development and
Flood Control (IWDFC) in the Ministry of Agriculture would coordinate project
implementation, This committee is chaired by the Secretary IWDFC, and its
members include Joint Secretary IWDFC, Chairman BWDB, and representatives of
the National Planning Commission, External Resources Committee, Finance
Division, and Establishment Division. For the project, the committee's
meeti,.gs would include representatives of concerned GOB agencies such as
BRDB, BADC, DAE, Department of Fisheries (DOF), and Ministry of Local
Government (Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
committee would give final. approval for the selection of subprojects, assure
adequate assistance/participation from all agencies, and resolve problems
involving policy issues that may arise during implementation.
40.     Coordination at the Field Level.  To encourage active participation
of the farmers at all stages of project plannintg and implementation, a Polder
Committee would be established for each subproject before finalization of
feasibility studies or before commencement of construction where feasibility
studies have already been completed.  Such a Committee would consist of the



-15-
Chairmen of the Union Parishads 11 where the polder is located, at least two
cooperative managers, the Upazila based support staff of DAE, DOF, BRDB,
BADC, etc., and BWDB's Engineer responsible for the polder area, and several
farmers. The Committee would be used as a forum to: disseminate information
on planning, implementation, 0 and M of the subproject and seek farmers'
reactions and consent; seek the active participation of farmers in 0 and M of
subprojects; discuss and oversee agricultural field demonstrations; and take
other necessary actions in support of the subproject's objectives.
41.     Implementation Schedule   The project implementation period would be
five years. Construction would start on six subprojects in the first year
and about eight in the second year, nine in the third year, and four in the
fourth year. In order to ensure the timely acquisition of the land required
for the construction of the embankments and other structures included in the
Project, the Government would take all action necessary to acquire, as and
when needed, all such lands as may be required for carrying out the project
(Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A condition of
credit effectiveness would be that land required for construction during the
first year of the project had been acquired by the Government (Section 6.01
(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Completion of the detailed
designs for the six subprojects for the first year, satisfactory to IDA,
would also be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Monitorin and Evaluation
42.     Monitoring of physical progress and related costs would be the
responsibility of BWDB. However, the evaluation of the project's impact
would be done by a consultant. The Government would, not later than April 1,
1985, furnish to IDA for its co'mments a detailed plan for monitoring the
beneLits to be derived from the project and to evaluate the impact of the
project on the agricultural development in the project area (Section 3.05 (c)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Proiect Costs
43.     Total project cost is estimated to be US$58.0 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$14.0 million or 24%. Estimates were formulated on
the basis of the costs of the four appraised subprojects and are based on
mid-1983 prices (adjusted to the expected time of credit negotiations), and
include US$2.7 million in taxes and duties. Physical contingencies amount to
10% of base costs. Price contingencies are estimated as follows: years one
to three, 8%; and years four and five, 7.5% for domestic price increases; and
year one, 9.5%;  year two, 8.7%; year three, 7%; and years four and five, 6%
11 The Union Parishad is the smallest unit of local government, with an
elected council, comprising about 6-12 villages.



-16-
for international price increases.  The domestic price increases used for the
proposed credit are lower than for other projects in Bangladesh because the
proposed project has a large component of local labor for earth works.
Financing
44.     The proposed IDA credit of SDR 40.2 million (US$41.5 million
equivalent) would finance 75% of total project cost net of taxes and duties.
The credit would finance 94% (US$13.1 mi'llion) of foreign exchange costs and
about 69% (US$28.4 million) of local cosi:s excluding taxes and duties. UNDP
is expected to finance the technical assistance and training (US$2.3 million)
on a grant basis. The Government and farmers would cover remaining project
costs (US$14.2 million), including taxes and duties and land acquisition,
with farmers bearing the cost of on-farm development comprising irrigation
ditches and field drains.  IDA would finance the local costs of preparatory
work consisting of investigations and surveys for the first year's sub-
projects incurred after June, 1983. Such retroactive financing would not
amount to more than about US$0.3 million
Procurement
45.     Civil Works (US$27.0 million including contingencies) are relatively
simple, mostly small and scattered and would b;e unsuitable for international
competitive bidding (ICB). Contractors f'or civil works construction would be
selected on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under proce-
dures acceptable to IDA. For works costing the equivalent of US$150,000 or
more, tender documents would be sent to IDA for review before bids are
invited, and bid evaluations before the contract is awarded. Investigations
and Surveys (US$0.4 million) work would be impLemented through force account,
or procured through contracts awarded under local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to IDA.
46.     Equipment (US$3.6 million) is of two types:  (i) primary pumping
equipment for irrigation; and (ii) other (e.g. transport and office
equipment). Spares amounting to about 10% of the equipment value would be
procured with the equipment.  Generally, all equipment would be procured
following ICB procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines. For procurement
under ICB, a preference limited to 15% of the CIF price or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be exte!nded to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$10,000 for each contract, which are needed urgently, may be procured after
comparing prices from not less than three independent suppliers in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA. Such ?rocurement would not exceed a
cumulative total of US$50,000.
47.     Operation of completed subproject works would be the responsibility
of BWDB personnel (until the Upazila administration takes over) while main-
tenance of works would be carried otit under petty contracts awarded following
procedures acceptable by IDA. Consultants would be engaged for:



-17-
(i) preparing feasibility studies of the remaining subprojects: (ii) detailed
design of works and construction supervision; as well as (iii) examining the
impact of the project on production and social conditions. There would be
two consultancy contracts: one for the remaining feasibility studies,
detailed designs and construction supervision, and one for evaluating the
impact of selected subprojects. Estimated technical assistance base costs
would average US$9,200 and US$750 per staff month for expatriate and local
specialist services respectively, inclusive of salary, fee, overhead, inter-
national travel, and subsistence.
Procurement Procedures (US$ million)
Procurement Method
Project Element                            ICB      LCB     Other      Total Cost
Investigations & Surveys                    -        0.2     0.2           0.4
(0.2)   (0.2)         (0.4)
Land Acquisition                                      -      7.3           7.3
Civil Works                                 -       27.0      -           27.0
(23.8)                (23.8)
Equipment                                  3.6        -       -            3.6
(2.9)                           (2.9)
Technical Assistance                                  -      2.3            2.3
Engineering & Administration                -         -      3.5           3.5
(3.5)         (3.5)
0 & M                                       -         -     13.9           13.9
_=__   (10.9)         (10.9)
Total                                      3.6      27.2    27.2          58.0
(2.9)   (24.0)  (14.6)         (41.5)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
Disbursement
48.     Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would cover:  (a) Civil
works, 94%; (b) Equipment and spares, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 65% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally; (c) Investigations and surveys, 100%; (d) BWDB
administration and engineering, 100%; (e) 0 and M, (i) Subprojects, 100% in
the first year after completion of each subproject, 60% in the second year
and 30% in the third year; and (ii) Pilot Decentralized Program, 80%; and (f)
Initial Deposit in the Special Account to refinance items under (a) above.
49.     Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications except for items (d), (e) and the portion of item (c) carried
out by force account. For these three items, applications would be supported



-18-
by certified statements of expenditure. The actual documentation would be
retained by BWDB at a central location and made available to IDA on request.
Project Special Account
50.     Project works are to be carried cut by a large number of small con-
tractors whose efficiency often depends upon the speed at which they receive
payment for completed work. Payments are frequently delayed on BWDB projects
because of delays in transferring funds from the Government to BWDB. To
remove this impediment, a Special Account (in Taka) would be established
under the proposed project. Opening the Account would be a condition of
credit effectiveness; the Government would thereafter maintain the account in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Sections
6.01 (b) and 2.02 (b) of the draft Developmenit Credit Agreement). The
maximum available balance in the Special Account would not exceed US$3.0
million, which amounts to three month's requirements on the basis of the
agreed construction program.
Accounts and Audit
51.     The Government would maintain records adequate to identify physical
progress and financial transactions relating to the project. Separate
accounts would be kept for all expenditures for which credit withdrawals
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure. Independent
auditors acceptable to IDA would audit the project accounts each year. The
auditors' report would be sent to IDA within nine months of the close of each
fiscal year, and would include an opinion as to whether the credit funds
disbursed against statements of expenditure had been used for the purposes
for which they were provided (Section 4.01 of t:he draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Cost Recovery
52.     Prior to the promulgation of the Irrigation Water Rate Ordinance 1983
(July, 1983) and the Irrigation Water Rates Ru:Les, 1984 (January, 1984),
farmers were required to pay water charges amounting to 3% of the gross value
of production from the irrigated lands (see paragraph 29); however, actual
collection was insignificant. Under the 1983 O)rdinance, Government would aim
at recovering the full 0 and M costs of irrigation projects. The Government
proposes to charge the beneficiaries on the basis of crop areas irrigated by
project and would revise the applicable rate season by season. BWDB would
continue to be responsible for assessing payment obligations. The rates for
the first year are expected to cover about 35% of 0 and M. A condition of
credit effectiveness would be that water rates had been set and come into
effect at levels satisfactory to IDA (Section 6.01(e) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Government would (i) gradually set water
rates at levels sufficient to enable BWDB to recover from the beneficiaries
of its gravity irrigation schemes increasing portions of the cost of 0 and M
and (ii) cause BWDB to improve its collection procedures, all in accordance



-19-
with a program satisfactory to IDA, with the view to recover the cost of
0 and M by July 1, 1990 (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). A condition of effectiveness would be that such a program had
been furnished to IDA (Section 6.01(f) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
53.     With regard to flood control and drainage subprojects, the
Government's current view, which is accepted by IDA, is that cost recovery is
not feasible at this stage.  While it is possible to determine aggregate
benefits derived from such subprojects or average per acre benefits, it would
be difficult to design and enforce a cost recovery scheme geared to farmers
ability to pay in a situation where they experience widely varying cultiva-
tion risks, depending on the location and quality of their land. On the
other hand, imposing charges based on average conditions would not be
equitable. Since land values are likely to reflect differences in
productivity, a land improvement tax would be a more feasible means of
achieving cost recovery in this type of subproject. However, due to the
absence of an effective land taxation system in Bangladesh, this alternative
is not practicable at present.
Project Benefits and Justification
54.     The project would raise crop production and farm incomes through
improvements in the water regime on about 225,000 acres. The proposed
production levels would be achieved without additional minor irrigation
equipment and without major changes in the availability of extension advice.
Over 80,000 farm families, or nearly 480,000 people, would directly benefit
from the project. Incremental farm employment would reach about 5.9 million
man-days at full development -- an increase of about 30% over the present
situation. Demand for hired farm labor would more than double in flood
control and drainage subprojects and increase almost tenfold in irrigation
subprojects, providing employment opportunities for the 39,000 landless
families who live in the project area. Based on the assumption that on
average the unappraised subprojects would produce the same results as the
four appraised subprojects the economic rate of return for the project as a
whole would be about 30%.
55.     The project is expected to have a limited net effect on the
environment. Flood control subprojects would have some minor adverse impact
on: soil fertility due to the elimination of soil nutrients brought by
floods; beel fishing due to lacking replenishment of fry and fingerlings; and
boat transport on khals due to construction of sluice structures at the
confluence with rivers. Additional use of manure, periodic fingerling
seedings, and load transfer from khal boats to river boats would be necessary
actions to offset these effects, which will involve only limited expense.
The Department of Fisheries will be represented on the Project Evaluation
Committee which will review each subproject to ensure that any adverse impact
on fisheries will be minimized. The environment would improve from the
reduced duration of flooding, improved access and reduced damage to property.



-20-
Drainage subprojects would have a beneficial effect by reducing areas with
high moisture, thus lessening the adverse impact on human and animal health.
Irrigation subprojects would replenish groundwater, decreasing the pos-
sibility of wells running dry.
Risks
56.     Implementation delays, particularly due to land acquisition, are a
risk facing the project. Therefore, land acquisition for the first year's
construction program (six subprcjects) would be a condition of credit
effectiveness, and the Government would in the following years acquire the
necessary land ahead of the respective construction seasons (see paragraph
41). Another risk is that subprojects would not gain the full support of the
population concerned. To minimize this riskl, the subproject selection
guidelines require that beneficiaries indicate strong general support for and
be prepared to participate in implementation and subsequent 0 and M of
subprojects; Polder Committees would be formed for each subproject to ensure
the active participation of the farmers (see paragraphs 34 and 40).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of t:he Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
would be: (a) UNDP Project Document has been executed and delivered (Section
6.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement; (b) the Special Account
has been opened (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(c) detailed designs for the first year's suLbprojects had been completed
(Section 6.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); (d) BWDB had
acquired land for the first year of construction (Section 6.01 (d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement); (e) water rates had been set at levels
satisfactory to IDA (Section 6.0L(e) o:E the draft Development Credit
Agreement; (f) a program satisfactory to IDA for increasing water rates and
improving collection procedures had beean furnished to IDA (Section 6.01(f) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (g) the Project Proforma 1/ has
been approved (Section 6.01 (g) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
1/ The Project Proforma is an internal document of the Government,
approval of which is a prerequisite for the release of funds and the
hiring of staff.



-21-
59.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 12, 1984



-22-                                                           Annex I
Page 1
T A B L E 3A
BANGLADESH                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Ia
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT                LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960/        1970/   ESTIMATE/b          ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA 6 PACIFIC
AREA (T1OUSAND SQ. A)
TOTAL                                   144.0        144.0        144.0
AGRICULTURAL                             95.2         97.0         97.5
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        40.0         60.0         140.0                276.7                      1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             ..         28.0         49.0                398.4                        792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   53491.0          68117.0      90660.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             5.1          7.6         11.6                 21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  156.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    430.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Rd.                          371.5         473.0        614.7                161.7                        260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               561.9         702.5        908.3                363.1                       1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                             44.3          46.3         42.8                 36.6                         39.4
15-64 YRS                             52.5          51.1         54.6                 59.2                         57.2
65 AND ABOVE                           3.2           2.7          2.6                  4.2                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                   1.9          2.4          2.6                  1.9                          2.3
URBAN                                   3.6          6.3          6.5                  4.0                          3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             53.5         49.2         47.0                  29.3                        31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             28.1         22.7         17.5                 10.9                           9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.6          3.4          3.1                  2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..        373.0       1607.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..           ..         12.0                 48.1                         46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                           106.0        101.0         93.0                111.4                        125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)          87.0          85.0         84.0                 98.1                        114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0          43.0         42.0                 56.7                         57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             9.0           9.0          7.0/c               13.9                         14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              24.9         23.0         19.7                 12.2                           7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            37.3         41.6         47.8                  59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)           159.0        150.3        134.7                 96.6                         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XPOP)
TOTAL                                    ..         45.0         53.0/d               32.9                         37.1
URBAN                                    ..         13.0         15.o71               70.8                         54.8
RURAL                                    ..         47.0         55.07W               22.2                         26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          6.0          5.O/e               18.1                         41.4
URBAN                                    ..           ..         40.0/e               72.7                         47.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..            ..                 4.7                         33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                   ..        8430.0    10940.0                3506.0                       7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                    ..       76810.0    24450.0                4797.9                       2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                    ..        7020.0/f   4500.0/c              1100.6                       1047.2
URBAN                                    ..         820.07f    630.07?               298.4                        651.1
RURAL                                    ..            ..    23360.07?              5941.6                       2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..             ..          ..                   ..                        27.0
aOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                 5.9/          5.B
UREAN                      ..           ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~            ~~6.17l  6. 1...
URBANI
RURAL                                    ..           5.9/g         5.8
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..           3.5
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..



-23-                                                             Annex I
Page 2
T A B L E 3A
BANGLADESH                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMIATE) /b
RECENT                LOW INCOME              MIDDLE lINCO'D
19 60 -1-b   1970-  ESTIMATE-             ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
lDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLtiENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                       47.0         52.0         62.0                 96.1                        101.2
:ALE                      66.0          68.0         76.0                107.8                        106.0
FEMALE                    26.0          34.0         47.0                 8Z.9                         97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        8.0         19.0         15.0                 30.2                         44.9
MALE                      14.0          29.0         24.0                 37.3                         50.0
FEMALE                     1.0           d.0          6.0                 22.2                         44.6
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)               1.0          0.8          14.3                  2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEAClER RATIO
PRIMARY                                  ..         45.0         44.0                 34.4                         32.7
SECONDARY                                .,         26.0         21.0                 18.4                         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (7.)                 21.6         23.0/h        26.01c               53.5                        72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP                ..          0.4          0.4                   1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               ..          6.0          8.0                 96.8                        113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                  ..           ..           0.9                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..           ..            4.7                 16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA            ..           ..             ..                  3.6                          3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             19252.0      23611.0      32341.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      1.Z          16.6         17.7                 33.3                         33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  87.0         86.0         74.0                 69.0                         50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      3.0          3.0         11.0                 15.8                         19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  36.0         34.7         35.7                 42.5                         38.6
MALE                                   58.7         55.9         57.0                 54.4                         50.7
FEMALE                                 11.4         11.9         13.0                 29.8                         26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.3          1.4           1.3                  1.0                          1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVArE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF LiOUSEHOLDS              18.31h         ..         14.6/j               16.5                         22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             44.57W        44.1/i       42.272               43.5                         48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                6.97W        8.7i7        6.9/j                6.9                          6.4
LOWEST 407 OF HOUSEHOLDS               17.97b       19.67i       18.27t               17.5                         15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERIY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        139.0/c              133.9                        194.5
RURAL                                    .I. ..                     1.07             111.6                        155.0
ESTLMATE0 RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
-V- (v-, P;- wAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           .             ..                  ..                        178.0
RURAL                                    ..           .             ..                  ..                        164.d
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (7)
URBAN                                    ..           ..         86.0/c               43.8                         24.4
RURAL                                    ..           ..         86.07W               51.7                         41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 'C E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted,  Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970  between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1]979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1972; /g 1973; /h 1963; /i 1967; /j 1974.
May 1983



-24-
Annex I
rPage 3
'oygII:,...   cc  cI:A. l'N1co  ccA,~ 
totes    altough  he dta or  crun  feo  ccuost icierlly  cccedtio ic   ccccrceet c   iS  cl cn~o   ccdciI h.ictocIccrO.-cutcice'icc'cot h --itnc -tttall
eo-pA`ohl   becaus-e *cish Ill ocI of             fceocoardle,o eafintelvIcc ccI cccccapa ccl  c doioccc"Icc"I' "I  oi      In.)101c  10Ccd.-   Thy cacc  -r,ccehle          oflt
deecteocr   fcantd,   nioceacc   i   c.rucce    etl   o_ c  eccocilcc    c ee..
Th   eercc   cap   re c   h  es   cccr:ecca  c  ioca)o  occr'.cc  cl                   o r .c~    11            cl c    o,r..rcc           r    cc.   ccocicr   ruho   i
&althoccacd  qIck. I                                                                                  oLeilha01o-ccclco  d  uo   ccno   ofprt, tileg
1977 sod 1980 dota.                                 -d                                                   ttoLcoc  urIg  ar-d  u,ustvn-;coo   y  ore  a  pa,se e
191  n  11  dc.                                                                                     oc,ato   erIcelaltd    ttl.uha,an   url-  outtanIdtt
lIble  1971,  and 19  dots.                                                                              ccclocc  te-hy   Bc           y tcehlenorepiligplnlal   asda
tOotONS"'tPTIll PER CAPITA - Actual appar..o. t_sseInatceccb  Ielbt                                                 tore  ct  a con       tfidb-a-ysta    btb ai-1  tetedlcel
1960, lIft  and lIltdos IcocIcaptl  icido  Rc-1plc                                                                                           gcoo   hoaptl,en              a
Ptpdt.tttic AN  VITaL  TOTIOTII                                                                   Ipcaledl ltl   r                             bnlac    oy ade  toal
data,                                                                                  teco hosyteolt dtulced by oio canbar ofYD     beds.r 'Y     I
Urbn hOaetao  lorotofselg-ttoof   ura  t   oalyplain
tanausre;16,   91   nd16   oa.*vrg  hco7Pc.,l   yeso   e  Icshlo      ee,  ra,ad ritaI
oapnatnsoleel  anAsal   ie euoosanoy ota196lia19og  en 77.1deltg,rsotry.                                                           tolng  ao Iid   oc d-eteae-ntysrate   n
tine  hebtrh    nto is  toqtal onth Idat  rathe,rn   tcto  g                               i
atranarcemctao fenerb.   Tts       oohtoa,ed onl  aet   fenell  Idty ,rate               HOUSINGsdteteoPt
PP"tuc  gnestoo of  oo    etrsIsl   nal. Teeelor                                                        crlnn A    If hoield (p-,24ecoay  oo   d  nonageo   eaoc
icit  frhoyyuaiocI  thof. yer  00,t          n  Ih oeo  ae Yn  of.year  h.ca..                                     e   atataea           igb   fpiayeuaI                  o
fIrtt bt   y rat   torpl reo ' leol                od`un-rcac althoivor.ta t ed   oo  eno  eor say es.,e btt pel.. Ioe
-plolo Teceity                                                                                         edaafe _equrr  ctaaltic  tar oIsfroe yhsryennr-soo
Pa  o  h.-tI-cr  ouato   eraurehlneo   10   rhaolofooiducnao,aoaina,o  eair  rlcrgtptuton-o
nunal aceac  1161, lIlt,~~~- end Ytbit 1980- data.,                                            yccprl-bcolyc   tt   Tpdocia e   ccapn  neocro   r
Por iato  io isutoeireroantI- Bletf-   yeas)   sr                            P.,csa  Il-              nluttahlol   Inasrll   ur "ohe   -rogran  ebto  oproto- depeod
pYpla. o; 16,  91  sodP t9Y8tf less.                                    71.                       Pul-tooce Prat I-   ireuc  ana ooadrn-.  Ttl,               asaep     seoaledI
year poyoltnto foe tIll-oi  lIrt-i t,   r lnd  .1f-I.bereapondln...g. .. tvls. ey                                              1ig  ..Id   .-.   l              B,d_
Pearippltlt   IllI  lIt,enE181llayCtl                                                                tP7
popaistlon;  160, 1900, ean  tIl-t dso                                                         cars coo ting les th-an.  Ig....  p.rf deI no lude  asb lane, hoarsc an
trea   ittairoden RosaAce.       ge t mbr o -agbetaoaf               ilorr   It                       till sort aeico.e ,l,                         I
tesi iy  aec  asel  flo -yeraooo   nigt   Ih,17,adbodat   to gtyrotpdbiaPcr to irid o                                                                          qaptatole alde  anr-tg
199.                                Ioenal   ettoe-                                                                       i   ont lesodin  erlgc  oalsa tto.ai
rely bln ico-hclepole , .  toua (thousadee mlt   Ill ncat  aher otacatoe'ONea    oeft'   aafrrcn   easnyoth   tpe ecnoot
of br.th-onrol e. te   unde  iaepto   teseoa    aiylhigoun e   blhdIonig
FOIl 0th 9176 IT 109                                                                      ccirrulocTi(iVT7iWii(Icc  Vacorel  In cr001  croa p.tccsc0, deflerd  coe.  a phorcttdrcot
boeed Ion oasiool   ou1trag   picsrerhe prtao orlnth; IfePhIi.lIlt  sodiIfl
too cootr sayyo  otrr  irr -o oTh yeatoenes)-  -t Coptn-r  fr.Toa...r.o.renoona   - ovoo                                                              aeaf    prac   nldo  rce
Ptryoqlaeno  ofotfodsplts  niallIlatr ber raylsa pori_cccesatd   ueapo edo  roclding1- hotonotes  "- studoets , O r                                                            p,  onrt
day    . . An -lobl  cu.ryrlec ramprtet dPce tto.r prlodutto, irporhdtc   - tcpflto    faloe     eiltoeI   ols    oneo   r   a
Isore,ae   ch0gr  Ii7ttorh.  dc culec   nldonaltrd    rd,                                      oprbl;lh, lIetao  C1181d data.;.._.
qoatnis totceod in toa    rIdeto,adtet   ndarbto.Pml    crot -r Pg-                                                 eocelbrfra  0prctg  of total labor force.
pealer noohsao."roecn iaot   by rho baod 00bOe  . yholgrocl trsfrtatarcltur-j I-d                                              -Lbo   oretofrein,froey   uto    n
anPosp cl    1rat; 0Ih d-l, 190-nd1901an.Yo eltlry,deatr  o  gals   orr                                                                                        p-gdo-tta  tobr- f rro.I
not supply of ted per dey.  no  sayly otfod  s1f4       e  at. dhon...Ptelvl oa                           ,la tat  Ivo -ot   - ttl  ae   o   eal      atltateo
P.P 1aoivao  of960 gaso   oa   rnl   o   t   i  1   ot   faoo   n                                       ecnoo  of" total,f  malee tid  fonlo  optoso   fhtIe a geeret penonlirly
ysm   poP    n,o   btb00get  hud1e970lprtt.   ho                                                     16,  90  ad111dn.   hceoehae trI'.prlrptoeee
ISoal   r   0c   hotos   ft   rm   fsttcont   o   3aecm  tto   egtsoo  csrtonuro o .thr.,  i-tpotaion.ndtn.                                                       noered
Thr  toldFodinii  11-6,190ad  90  aa.tcoov eeneca   sla-Oci  o   opltInaoe  I   i  t-O                                                                                    '  II oar0
Perotyna  rotlt  utnr fos  ttel al ytto- roren  npp   ifeto                   th  toa   aortrt
dreir   tio   osol  ti  tlos t6  gay   per070    ddat70-19h-5 Itad11
data.I..                              Ill .                                                             roin liTl" oi        r      IYfOl .y.l.
Child.lcs1-1Iah  oeIrntosad  ttaheah   e Rhttend  InId-ItrLt-leyo tr-conp-ct-m (bthIn otebdand kiod)   tecto    y  ihs
age grvp 1-0years,to.r....s  Al-I lit - ala     h grout  for .- ns  den ldyn                     pe-rcrnn      Of ri ot.1 ecat dlt   ee  0  areon              r ao  poe d h rilpeooro
ooca,.tpreodtadrte   fro  life  dale.96,17t                ad18  dr.buchla
Gcrd            tecoocc 0erth    .. toa   I~ A- Ancrtge  Pvbra   or   tla    eaot  th ..,   frdyeOSMTOll one1ciao5revr   proor  v Yauro  of-d rt   oel   s
at htrnh11961, 190 acd 196  dota,                                                     siuld ho Icreprove   otot i60ldo1970ecaendtod
1net98o1     n   arI  r  hoool-Ono  dtho   a  irtvt                          fid r ovo                  ..t.and-  btolt po- tet pmov,er tanl  101     pper a tlel-  r a  odrra 
acooat ad iore cater I roruens of populot riol -  oo,obn   n  rrl-rtiin                                  taeut    to Pluo tauneon  Ail non-food rtqoirn tneto
Iccoeriftopl  Iotl,arao  adra,roil doahEe reoooleoc               nog ct                   Redirdoh-ire  pr.         hd
has..       nrra.rasroofbe   oos  tlrtyytrrth    ototooradraa                                                      Ofooo    fpouuio   abo   odrrlloo00    hs0t
P'a      obn   iycl  Inltrt,..phoc, and etaooll serieS  byInvcont
fb1ooooor bto `and aIr-ardycsrbre   yta   rteoto   i                                                                              FroP ostc acolyoT aeedo  Pro(ledtt.v . teprtro
prlnrrond  -IattII iossolloct-vns,t-                                                                                                                1.d,AOalt 1903-oi



-25-                                                              ANNEX 1
Page 4
EANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  91.55 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$140 (1982)
Amount
(million USS              Average Annual Increase (Z)                   Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
in current prices)              (in constant Prices)                              (in current Prices)
Indicator                       FY82             FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY8O-82             FY60    FY70    FY75    FY80    FY82
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a             10,947               4.0       -0.6         5.5       3.5          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture /a                       5,107               3.1       -1.3         3.3       2.4           59.9    56.9    62.5    53.4    46.7
Industry /a                          1,506               7.9       -3.2         6.4       3.8           7.7       9.6    11.3    12.7    13.8
Services /a                          4,334               4.9        3.3         8.1       4.9          30.1    30.0    26.2    34.0    39.6
Consumption                           11,373               4.4        -0.7        6.0       3.5           92.4    92.8    99.2    98.0   103.9
Gross domestic investment              1,506              10.9      -10.9         2.0      -6.5            6.9    11.3       8.1    16.7    13.8
Exports of goods & nfs                   841               0.3      -11.7         3.4       9.3           10.0      8.3      3.0      7.8      7.7
Imports of goods & nfs                 2,774               8.8      -12.0         6.1       1.4            9.3    12.5    10.3    22.5    25.3
Gross national savings                  -111              26.5      -17.7        22.1    -38.8             0.9      6.1      1.0      4.0    -1.0
Amount
(million US$                      Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
in current prices)                             (in current prices)
FY82                          FY73        FY75         FY8O       FY82
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                      627.0                          100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0
Primary a                              193.9                           40.4        31.5         29.6       30.9
Manufactures                           433.1                           59.6        68.5         70.4       69.1
Merchandise imports                    2,587.0                          100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0
Food                                   360.8                           44.1        42.2         30.2       13.9
Petroleum                              560.6                            3.2        11.1         16.2       21.7
Machinery &lequipment                  676.1                           13.8        11.5         23.0       26.1
Other                                  989.5                           38.9        35.2        32.0        38.2
FY74      FY75      FY76      FY77      FY78      FY79       FY80      FY81      FY82
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                           140.6    240.7      183.1     177.2    203.6    216.8    252.7          267.3    295.9
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                   7.9661   8.8759  14.8521  15.4667  15.1215  15.2228  15.4777   16.3447  20.0400
Export price index                                     104.5    119.0    103.4    108.9    126.5    160.9    198.9             175.7    147.7
Import price index                                     144.9    187.8    180.2    178.2    168.7          208.9    234.9       263.9    261.5
Terms of trade index                                    72.1      63.4      57.4      61.1       75.0      77.0      84.7       66.6      56.5
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY75      FY77      FY80        FY82
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                 5.4       9.5       10.5         11.6
Current expenditure                                             4.5       7.8        7.7          8.4
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                             +0.9      +1.7      + 2.8        + 3.2
Capital expenditure                                             3.1       9.5       13.3         12.4
Foreign financing                                               2.4       6.0        8.2          8.0
FY60-70       FY70-75        FY75-80      FY80-82
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                              4.2           -0.6            6.5          3.3
GNP per capita growth rate (g)                                   1.5           -3.0             4.0         0.9
= not available
= not applicable
/a At market prices.
/b  Raw jute and tea.
ASADD
August 31, 1983



-2.6-                                                              Annex 1
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMNTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                   Estim. Projected
FY75    FY76      FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83              FY84
Net exports of goods                                    -1,059     -903      -470    -859    -946  -1,650  -1,822  -1,960  -1,685    -1,790
Exports of goods                                         344      372       405      490      610      722      711      627       655       750
Imports of goods                                     -1,403  -1,275       -875  -1,349  -1,556  -2,372  -2,533  -2,587  -2,340   -2,540
Net exports of services                                      21      - 7      -29      -32      -28         4       15      -70      -90      -102
Workers' remittances                                        35        29       60      113      143      210       379      412      600       650
Gurrent account balance                                 -1003      -882      -439    -778    -831  -L436  -1.428  -1,618  -1,175    -1.242
Direct private investment                                                                         ..                         .        .          .
MLT loans (net)                                            498       498      238     :398      420      581       513      498      540       607
Grants & grant-like flows                                  382       245      265      393      553      592       584      697      720       735
Other capital flows (net)                                  274        87       17      -39      -16      145       307      295      -57      -100
Change in reserves (- - increase)                         -151        53      -81       25    -124       119        24      128      -28          -
International reserves (end of period)                     266      213       294      269      393      274      250       122      150       150
Reserves as months of imports of next year                2.4      2.6       2.4      1.9      1.8      1.2      1.1       0.5      0.7       0.6
Actual
FY75    FY76    '?Y77    FAu78    FY79    FY80    FY81          FY82
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                        382      245      265      3 93      553      592      584      697
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                       519      564      268      435      477       631      562      539
Concessional                                        458       533      244      401      456      600       541      467
Bilateral                                         343      390      144       262      213      273      255
IDA                                               113      128        86       88      153      152      170      158
Other multilateral                                  3       15        14       51       91      177       83
Non-concessional                                     60        31       24       35       20       30        21       72
Official export credits                            19         -        -        -        -        -         -        4
IBRD
Other multilateral                                 27        18        6        2        3       17         3       26
Private                                            15        13       18       32       17       13       19        42
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding & disbursed (end of period)  1,355    1,797    2,053    2,571   2,951   3,216   3,615   3,979
Official                                          1,233    1,689    1,940   2,436   2,808   3,067   3,491    3,835
IBRD                                               55        55       55       55       55       55       55        55
IDA                                               255      380      466       554      707      859   1,027    1,181
Other                                             923   1,254   1,419   1,E27    2,047    2,154   2,379   2,599
Private                                              122      108      113      135      142      149       124      144
Undisbursed Debt                                    1,019       948   1,016    1,335   1,659    1,718   2,103    2,666
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                             31       88       59       69        95       94       92       87
Interest                                             10        22       28       32       38        43       42       47
Payments as Z of export earnings                         7.3    20.3      12.7      12.1    13.1      10.6    10.0    10.3
Payments as 2 of GNP                                     0.2      1.2      0.9       0.8      1.0      0.8      0.7      0.8
Average interest rate on new loans (%)
Official                                               2.0      1.6      1.5       1.3      1.3      1.2      1.6      1.8
Private                                                2.3      7.8      6.4      6.2      6.1       6.9    10.8       9.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                              36.2    42.2    40.6       38.6    36.3    34.2    35.0    35.6
Private                                               15.3    11.3    11.0         9.5    14.8    19.3        7.6     11.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (7)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                       4        3         2        2        1        1        1
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements             -        -        -         -        -        -        -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                     -        1         5        4        4        3        4
IDA DOD/total DOD                                       18       21       22        21       24       26       28
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements             21       22       32        20       32       24       32
IDA debt service/total debt service                      3        2        5         5        4        6        7
IBRD/IDA Lending,
Dec. 1982 (mill. US$)
As % of Debt Outstanding
TERM STRUCTURE                                               at End of June 1982                                                      IBRD     IDA
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)                                                  Outstanding & Disbursed                 54.9  1,270.0
Maturities due within 5 years                                     16.9                   Undisbursed                                -   1,047.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                    41.6                   Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed'    54.9  2,317.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (Z)
Interest due within first year                                      1.7
= not available
x                                                                                                                                  ASADD
x                                                                                                                                  August 31, 1983



-27-                                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                 Purpose            Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 29 credits fully disbursed                       54.90   876.48          -
341       1972  Bangladesh  Tubewells (replaces Credit
No. 208-PAK of 1970)           -      14.00        0.54
487       1974  Bangladesh  Telecommunications II              -       20.00        2.16
527       1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                -      62.00        1.70
542       1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                 -       27.00      10.46
605       1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation               -       22.00       6.05
621       1976  Bangladesh  Agricultural & Rural Training  -           12.00        2.02
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                  -       16.00       5.75
632       1976  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank             -       25.00       3.54
724       1977  Bangladesh  Shallow Tubewells                  -       16.00       1.84/c
725       1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation                  -       21.00      10.88
735       1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II          -        5.00       1.01
765       1978  Bangladesh  Jute                               -       21.00      13.03
787       1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II               -       25.00      13.74
825       1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II            -        7.00       3.00
828       1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research              -        6.00       0.91
864       1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control           -       19.00      11.84
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -        6.00       3.87
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                -      25.00       17.64
921       1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II  -          32.00       26.74
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -      28.00       21.44
941       1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -      22.00        4.83
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                  -      25.00       20.09
964       1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                        -       10.00       7.88
990       1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                     -       37.00      20.74
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c  Undisbursed balance cancelled in October (effective September 29).



-28-                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                 Purpose             Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II          -      20.00       17.85
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer :[ndustry
Rehabilitation                 -       29.00       23.07
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                 -       20.00       13.80
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation              -      11.00        7.55
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -       40.00       33.09
1065/d     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III            -      35.00       25.39
1091/d     1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development           -      85.00       16.47
1096/d     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport                -      25.00       13.28
1117/d     1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II           -      50.00       27.64
1124/d     1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV             -      16.00       11.12
1140/d     1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                      -      18.00       12.75
1147/d     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                 -      40.00       27.24
1184/d     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II    -           27.00       24.01
1194/d     1982  Bangladesh  Imports Program X                   -     100.00       10.62
1204/d     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong lJrea Fertilizer         -      15.00       13.53
1205/d     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry
Rehabilitation                 -       30.00       27.58
1215/d     1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II             -      27.00       23.23
1247/d      1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                    -      60.00       57.07
1254/d     1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power              -      92.00       87.40
1262/d     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification               -      40.00       38.04
1287/d     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                   -      68.00       63.94
1300/d     1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program Xi                  -     110.00       75.01
1301/d     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                 -        6.00        5.19
1318/d     1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training           -        7.80        7.72
1321/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III              -      35.00       34.35
1349/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                    -       12.00       11.73
/d  Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of
principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect
on September 30, 1983, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits funded
out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on
the dates of disbursement.
/e Not yet effective.



-29-                               ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose             Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1357/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation        -      28.50       28.00
1384/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II               -      100.00      98.08
13961d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II           -        8.10       8.03
1399/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                -       20.00      19.44
1402/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                      -       23.00      22.64
Total                                                     54.90  2,577.88  1.096.54
of which repaid                                           -        1.63      -
Total now outstanding                                     54.90  2,576.25
Amount sold                                              0.00      0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                            54.90  2,576.25
Total undisbursed                                                           1,096.54
/d  Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of
principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect
on September 30, 1983, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits funded
out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on
the dates of disbursement,
/e Not yet effective.



-30-                              ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30. 1983)
Fiscal                                                               Amounts in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business            Loan   Equity    Total
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                   1.20     0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of          Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.                Finance Company              -        1.05      1.05
Total gross commitments                                              1.20      1.41      2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales              -         -        -
Total now held by IFC                                                1.20      1.41      2.61
Total undisbursed                                                    0.65       -        0.65



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
1 year
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
BWDB
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA:
February 1983
(d) Date of appraisal mission:
June 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
February 24, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action:
None



-32-
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:    Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a)  acquisition of land for the first year of construction
(paragraph 41);
(b)  completion cf detailed design for the first year s
subprojects (parag;raph 41);
(c) execution and delivery of the UNDP Project Document
(paragraph 44);
(d)  opening of the Special Account (paragraph 50);
(e) setting of water rates satisfactory to IDA
(paragraph 52); and
(f) furnishing to IDA a program for increasing water rates
and improving collection procedures (paragraph 52).
Other
Conditions:      The Government would:
(a)  not later than January 1, 1985 employ consultants whose
qualifications weres satisfactory to IDA to assist in
subproject selection, planning and design and in the
supervision of construction and in the evaluation of the
impact of selected subprojects (paragraph 35); and
(b)  gradually set: water rates at levels sufficient to enable
BWDB to recover from the beneficiaries increasing
portions of 0 and M costs and cause BWDB to improve its
collection procedures, all in accordance with a program
satisfactory to IDA, with a view of achieving 0 and M
cost recovery by July 1, 1990 (paragraph 52).



9038'                                      9040'                                      9042'                                       90-44'                       OCTOBER 1983
BAN GLADES H                                                                                     Proposed  Bridge
---  Proposed  Stream Diversion
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT                                                                                     _  Project Boundary
KANGSHA  DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL SUBPROJECT                                                                                       Proposed Flood Embankment.
0    Proposed Sluices
-    Roads
-9                                                        -.----.-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways
X 8 > )5ze1 ".'-_  '',' j / '>  ' --               '                                           Rivers
1                                                         229~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C:-  Lakes
2> /=                . - 7z   . -~  --               '2'                                 ~-'  Drainage Channels
6,                                                      __ . - S S     -3G---  Contours in feet
( ~~~~  <.25-'  ---     /,~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  .----  I~~~~~nternationol Boundaries
(C    ~                    (30/-t                                                                                    0         .5        1.0        1,5       2.0
,<        ,            S             b'hobori U'   '1                                         (R          S   ('MILES
I~~~ _GuzalS,    7',  25>9, '                                      j-i ''>    ~ Sj,,-f                                                              f \X
/                                                           ijiS          5 ''    'C),; k \\                          ;         
9-;3 0-
24-5        ,                                               COi '                                                                                                              24'5'
>   S    Pro/ert~~~~~9 Theo/dak/hr, ealuabt  
<     -\ChhonoA arc        n    ongrao oro
Bhobarrpur
'-<r.t4\<>>  .                                                                                          G 5 boun  (   \orkono
r~~~~~~~~~~~U 
26'~~~~~~~~-
Th0 S-rdp h-ob pioredin9    by,i
avyi,vrno    o- Iof th0 so
ssl    71                          1f-..j-of ori fG.o  or -N-y fo,
eCdorn hoo rh. -oo,n                              9-t901'
7        1 sud btund b-d.. s
09                       v~~~~~~t, -   .of4O                          9042                                        90'54     VETAKAI



I



IBRD 17472
89'02'                                                8904                                                 8906'                      OCTOBER  1983
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
KALAROA DRAINAGE SUBPROJECT
-        . -__Project Boundory
Proposed  Bridge
. Proposed  Sluice
-.-__.. Proposed  Droinoge  Chonnels
-22.5                                                                                                                                                 Ri.v\  . .  .     .   -  Lokers      2258'
Lokes
-20-    Contours  in  feet
Internationol Boundaries
7                            ~~~~~~~MILES
0           .5 1\0 ..5                            2.0
22 '                       =                          '                                                                     '                                      This map has b-en prepared by
The World Bank's staff exclusr-ely
for the convenience of the
A -  ;  -- s.1   -.  , t  X   _  \\ !,i oo\.   tX                  readers and is excbsivee for the
internal use of The World hank
and the Intenational Finance
Corporatho. The denoirnations
used arid the boundarnes shown
on this map do not inply, on the
part of The Word hank and the
interational Finance Corporation.
any iudgment on the legal StatU
of any territory or any
endorsement or acceptance of
suh boundaries.
, 'f _1      24'                                                                                                                                              22-52'' 1  l' 
$&I r              9i0             C2                                                                          i 6.jQ8'4                                  89-06'



I



IBRD 17473
983w              -9                      IKi            /                                                                                                        OCTOBER 1983
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
De7 0,
INDIAI DI
BANGLADESH        /lo                                                                                                          '>'nken                           222;  2 n Y/  
A-, ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ I
-22
\8_   9t,          9                        J,_
-22'20-                    neroinlBunois\'8                                                                                                              b    t21
22'18'
22'18'                                                                                                                                     _
the~~~~~ rtlFKton  T       h           =-~  ,(                'ca me  o
on rhejj   ter st    j<u or -n >eTmf or3                                        '-V eno5mXtwtF>f3C bn n
BA NGL ADES H
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
BIGHAI FLOOD CONTROL SUBPROJECT                                                                  '''j<                 (
-Project Boundary
----cProposed  Flood  Eusbonkn,ent
01 Proposed  Sluices
Existing Flood  Embonkment 
I-Rivers and  Streams
Roads
Contours in feet
22114'-
22'14           '--   Internotional Boundaries
0         .5        .0         15        2.0 MILES      Th       npnrnb   -r rRrr5uxxttrrerrrernr
I   I   I        I                       urn~~~~~~th red-r -nd   - ern-ely fur tMe.rrrt nun .f Th. World B.W,*ed tIrehetmere
Pur-- Co.neeon The d-erenIr-  -ed -nd Mre Irerdre utenere ff. err  d. our
enk -n pet- Pd  TIre Vord rdr Bnkd fte tIt-rehen Fk.-en Cenneete. -OVjrnr,rrt
ente "Inu uthn of eny tenhory en urn euouer-t or ecept-o Pr uuh bo-udenu..
90"06'                                       90T8.                                        90-10-                                        01--



I
I



;____________- *  ____-- 9 2 - _____                                                                                                    IBRD   17474
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER 1983
BANGLADESH
6  (              .                                                                       BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
s>  y__                                       /,\X\\CHENCHURI BEEL IRRIGATION SUBPROJECT
&' t-lA.DES,4             
24            .akh  /            24-
INDIA 
-22'                                       'Ianibarpur
8_8_       9OG1       912;
o bkhGandh lba i   ,                            ,
W g p~~~~~~l                                          /              15       ___) 
15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l l/gr ,t                        \n
teelgorden                           \ 
Project Boundary                   ,             molopur
Existing  Embankment
(V   Proposed Pumping Station
Proposed Main Canal
Typical Irrigotion Scheme:
2 CFS OUTLET  -           CHANNEL
*S  ,     50 ACRES NET IRR/GA T-ON
'--MAINV CANAL
GAoshour   '                                          0       M/dl
    _-   Proposed Drainage Channels
Drains
River                                                                                                                 Kuadango
Contours in feet                                                                                                                  /
-    Roads
International Boundories
//   -    _         _=                  T ~~~~~~~~~~Loha9t
NAA'A IL>  <X/< Gorden Da7                  /                          MILES
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.51 01. 5,~w  
1' ( -'--- -'-'' -7 ' ' i ' \1~~~~~~~~~~N






8'9\  L90-                                                                       92D
BANGLADESH
BWDB SMALL SCHEMES PROJECT
_4;) '                                   f5,noGvuhz7t Subproject Locations
0  SUBPROJECT LOCATIONS
-26 a                  \ '\       \       K    \                          F-NanCed by:                                         26-
Cl-  . aakurgoon \  )<   r   --                         ; ~~~~~~~~IFAD
IDA
^-. \ . t \ '. | RAILWAYS
t   \   \   .~~~~~~~~~   - ~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
.   . 0   __    .      .,                      *-* ~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-25- '                                           .~    y        |r                                  Chhotak    2      +        25-
Jngsha Draragen
O)      -/cYod B O  Ofi _     /ood Control
IDiA             :            -    \      '   '/     F              <         ' -'                 ( RA 
t   k    /  )  =   L    X       %                 H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fabigoj1z
-5 < ~~~~~) . /3 ' VANGA~~~~~~~~IL /0t  
-24-                                BNA Is h u                     Jaydpur 2                                                   240I
L.A       I )   hoanberiaX I I\I                          D  I A
<  \%gs     t        <_  XA~~~~~RIDPUR             %9X1                                          t
2~~~~~~~~~~~~ 50                                          100. KIBO.ETERS  
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
MI )ANKA  -9fi2  -I~ 9KHULA         .                                   .                                    iH
t      ,-                      X                      \>   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RANGAMATI, 
t Zbe convenb De ol thrr th   :    '     ' a ,gjpA,a~~~Bo, ~f/soa . onf.rol  CHITTAGONc      
Ga1-11  Tllr   bi1aKslFac   .i-  5  
at  t or The Wca'd t az1; d 1f/ t 25                      50         7 MILS                            BU.RMAe:  g.  
mism~ ~~~~~~~~~~~-1                                                                                                    21''9>Cvv to   it, ., ,=J, .:   
5R Ar NKA      -<r 
|   SRI LANKA                           ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                                                         ~    ~~~~~~90t  9  92'     P 
I                    i                                               si~~~~~~~~1



I       I



