OFICIAL         CREDIT NUMBER 1467 BD
D)OCU M .TS
Development Credit Agreement
(Bangladesh Water Development Board Small Schemes Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       l, 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1467 BD
DEVELOPENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMFNT, dated          /YX,3       11         , 1984, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Program (hereinafter called UNDP) a grant (herein-
after called the UNDP Grant) in an amount of about $2,300,000 to
assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms and zondi-
tions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the UNDP
Project Document) to be entered into between the Borrower and
UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "BWDB" means the Bangladesh Water Development Board
established and operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and
Power Development Board's Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 59 of 1972) or
any successor thereto;


﻿- 2 -
(b)  "Sub-project" means a sub-project selected or proposed
to be selected by the Borrower under the Project pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.02 of this Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment;
(d)  "Upazila" means an administrative unit as defined by
the Borrower in pursuance of Local Government (Thana Parishad and
Thana Administration) Ordinance 1982, or any successor thereto;
(e) "Fy" means the Borrower's fiscal year; and
(f) "Tk" means taka, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to forty million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 40,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of   the
Project, open and thereafter maintain in Taka a special account
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Association       shall  establish.    The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually oa February 13 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1994, and ending
February 15, 2034, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
BWDB with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation to the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall ensure that adequate funds will be
allocated for the operation and maintenance of the sub-projects.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction on the
Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall select the sub-projects to be carried out under
the Project in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in sub-project
selection, planning and design and in the supervision of con-
struction and in the evaluation of the impact of selected sub-
projects, the Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1985
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, such consultants to be selected in accordance with prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor fhe progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction on the Borrower's
obligations under paragraph (b) (i) above, the Borrower shall,
not later than April 1, 1985, or such other date as the
Association shall agree, furnish to the Association for its
comments a detailed plan for monitoring the benefits to be
derived from the Project and to evaluate the impact of the
Project on the agricultural developmert of the sub-project areas.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-


﻿-6 -
rower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed, but in any
event sufficiently in advance of the construction periods, all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause BWDB to:
(a) design and lay out the farm irrigation ditches and farm
drainage channels in irrigation sub-projects and, upon agreement
by the beneficiaries to bear the cost of such on-farm development
and the operation and maintenance costs thereof, supervise the
construction and synchronize the completion of such ditches and
channels with the completion of the main system; and
(b) construct and improve all works included in the Project
in accordance with design standards and construction specifica-
tions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, with respect to the four
divisions referred to in Part B (2) of the Project, prepare and
furnish to the Association for its comments detailed work
programs and staff requirements for such divisions as follows:
(i) by January 1, 1985, with respect to the first division to be
set up thereunder; and (ii) by July 1, 1985, with respect to the
remaining three divisions.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that representatives
of the agencies of the Borrower concerned with the implementation
of the Project will be included in the meetings, for purposes of
the Project, of the Departmental Project Evaluation Committee
within  the   Irrigation  Water Development and Flood     Control
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance


﻿- 7 -
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and    expenditures, in   respect   of  the
Project,  of   the  departments  or  agencies  of   the  Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained all equipment and facilities included in the Project
in accordance with sound engineering practices and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, all such funds, facilities, services,
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction on the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower
shall cause the Upazilas to gradually assume responsibility for
the operation and maintenance of the facilities included in the


﻿- 8 -
Project; to that effect the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association, by January 1, 1986, for comments by the
Association, detailed proposals for such transfer of responsibil-
ities.
Section 4.03. Without any limitation to the provisions of
Section 4.02 hereof, the Borrower shall: (i) gradually set water
rates at levels sufficient to enable BWDB to recover from the be-
neficiaries of its gravity irrigation schemes increasing portions
of the cost of the operation and maintenance thereof; and (ii)
cause BWDB to improve its collection procedures, all in accord-
ance with a program satisfactory to the Association, with the
view to recover, by July 1, 1990 the cost of operation and main-
tenance thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof: (i) that subject to paragraph
(b) of this Section the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the UNDP Grant made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; and (ii) that the Borrower or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of BWDB or for the suspension of
its operations, unless upon any such dissolution, disestablish-
ment or suspension, arrangements satisfactory to the Association
shall have been made to replace it by    another body which will
assume and perform all its functions in respect of the Project
and covenants applicable under this Agreement.
(b) Paragraph (a) (i) of this Section shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Proj2ct are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified


﻿- 9 -
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in sub-paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of that sub-paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:              I
(a) the UNDP Project Document has been duly executed and
delivered, and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
thereof (other than, if applicable, the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b) the Special Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) detailed design for the six sub-projects to be carried
out during the first year of the Project have been completed to
the Association's satisfaction;
(d) the land required for construction during the first
year of the Project has been acquired by the Borrower in
accordance with Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(e)  the water rates have been set and come into effect at
levels satisfactory to the Association pursuant to Section 4.03
(i) of this Agreement;
(f) a program satisfactory to the Association for increas-
ing water rates and improving collection procedures has been fur-
nished to the Association pursuant to Section 4.03 of this Agree-
ment; and
(g) the Project Proforma for the carrying out of the
Project has been approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date      A -&v I I       9   , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 (a) and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on


﻿- 10 -
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. *Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the External
Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                         65886
Dhaka                               SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 11 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE 'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SER Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works              18,400,000          94%
(2) Equipment and             2,550,000          100% of foreign
spares                                     expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 65%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Investigations              390,000          100%
and surveys
(4) Administration            2,910,000         100%
and engineering
(5) Operation and
maintenance


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(a) Sub-projects         1,950,000         100% in the first
year after com-
pletion of each
sub-project, 60%
in the second
year and 30% in
the third year
(b) Pilot Decen-         7,750,000         80%
tralized
Program
(6) Initial Deposit           2,910,000        Amount due under
in Special Account                         Section 2.02 (b)
to prefinance items                        of this Agreement
under Category I
above
(7) Unallocated               3,340,000
TOTAL              40,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes lhvied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or


﻿- 14 -
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by      notice  to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date cf this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 290,000, may be made in respect of Category 3 on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1,
1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures  in  order   that  further  withdrawals  under   such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
increasing its agricultural production through improved drainage,
flood co-trol and irrigation and to strengthen BWDB's implementa-
tion anu operation and maintenance capabilities. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
The carrying out of about 30 flood control, drainage or
irrigation sub-projects.
Part B:
1.   The strengthening of BWDB's capability to implement the
Project and projects of similar nature, through the provision of
technical assistance, training and equipment therefor.
2.   The strengthening of BWDB's capabilities to operate and
maintain existing schemes through the carrying out of a Pilot
Decentralized Operation and Maintenance Program including the
setting up and equipping of four operation and maintenance
divisions within BWDB.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competiti-ie Bidding
1.   Except as provides in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospectiva bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 17 -
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Bangladesh equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 18 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works (including investigations and surveys) shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally under procedures satisfactory to the
Association, provided however that investigations and surveys may
be carried out through force account.
2.   Items of equipment estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $10,000 up to an aggregate amount of $50,000 equivalent,
may be procured through prudent shopping on the basis of at least
three price quotations from different sources.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more and all contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
doctments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award


﻿- 19 -
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the kssociation promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the precediag
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   With respect to all contracts referred to in paragraph (1)
above, the Borrower shall, before agreeing to any material modi-
fication or waiver of the terms and conditions of a contract, or
granting an extension of the stipulated time for performance of
such contract, or issuing any change order under such contract
(except in cases of extreme urgency) which would increase the
cost of the contract by more than 15% of the original price,
inform the Association of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Associa-
tion, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Annex:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to Category 1 in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in Taka
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category 6 and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments  out  of   the  Special  Account   shall  be  made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower, with-
draw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter,
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association, at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments  made   out  of   the  Special   Account  for   eligible
expenditures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under Category 1, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.


﻿- 21 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total un-
withdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Category 1 for Part A
of the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the initial deposit, whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to Category 1 for Part A of the
Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower and shall, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, be made only after and to the
extent the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of /
198
FOR SECRETARY


