Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  52403 
Operation Name 
Morocco Education Sector Development Policy Program (First 
Operation) 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General education sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P117838 
Borrower(s) 
MOROCCO 
Kingdom of Morocco 
Morocco 
 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
Ministry of National Education, Higher Education, Civil Servant 
Training and Scientific Research 
Bab Rouah 
Morocco 
Tel: (212-37) 681-509, 687-232 
Fax: (212-37) 772-042 
Date PID Prepared 
December 21, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 15, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 29, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Key development issues
.
Government efforts to increase the availability of educational services have 
continued to expand access to education at all levels.  From 2005/06 to 2008/09, net enrollment rates 
increased from 88.7 to 90.5 percent for primary education, from 37.0 to 42.7 percent in middle school, 
and from 16.5 to 19.8 percent in upper secondary education.  Progress has also been made in ensuring 
equitable access to education for young children, with the gender parity index in primary education 
between urban boys and rural girls aged 6-11 having now narrowed close to 1.0. Despite these positive 
outcomes, enrollment disparities persist as children proceed up through the education system. 
 
Morocco has been less successful in balancing an increase in enrollments with improvement in 
education quality.  While access to primary education is almost universal, many students repeat grades 
and/or drop out of school… with the result that a quarter of all students do not complete the six grades of 
primary school.  The scores for Moroccan students in the most recent international math and science 
survey were low compared both to the Middle East and North Africa region and to the world-wide 
average.  In Grade 4 mathematics, for example, only one quarter of Moroccan students reached the 
lowest of four benchmark levels, while none reached the highest benchmark level – this compared with 
the international median of 90 percent reaching the lowest benchmark and 5 percent reaching the highest 
benchmark.   
 
Government response
.
Improving the quality of outcomes in the education sector has become a key 
priority for Morocco’s government. To overcome the challenges faced by the sector, the Government 
embarked on a comprehensive reform of the education and training system, with the promulgation of the 
1999 National Education and Training Charter (CNEF).  The CNEF, with strong national consensus, 
declared 2000-2009 the decade for education and training, and established education and training as a 
Page  2
national priority.  More recently, the Government drew up an “Education Emergency Plan 2009-2012” 
to give a new impetus to the reform process, with a focus on (a) achieving universal basic education by 
2015; (b) promoting initiative and excellence in post-basic education; (c) improving system performance 
(teaching, management and stewardship); and (d) mobilizing and utilizing resources (financing, 
partnership, communication, social mobilization and implication of the private sector). 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement
.
The 2010-2013 Country Partnership Strategy comprises three pillars.  
These pillars are: i) encouraging growth, competitiveness and employment; ii) improving the quality of 
service delivery; and iii) promoting sustainable development within the context of climate change.  
 
The Government’s own reform program, as laid out in the CNEF and the EEP, also received strong 
support from the donor community.  In light of this, the Government requested five major donors 
(European Union (EU), European Investment Bank (EIB), Agence française de développement (AFD), 
African Development Bank (AfDB) and World Bank) to assist the implementation of the EEP reform 
agenda.  This dialogue with the donors led to the joint identification of priority reform areas and the 
definition of main results/outcome indicators, along with monitoring and evaluation arrangements. 
Within this joint approach, the Bank’s program of DPL operations will support critical policy actions 
particularly in the area of management decentralization to the regional and school levels.  
 
2. Proposed objective 
 
The Program aims to support the implementation of the Government’s “Education Emergency Plan 
2009-2012”, with a view to improving the effectiveness of service delivery and the quality of 
educational outcomes. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The EDPP would recognize the Government’s efforts to: (i) achieve universal compulsory basic 
education by 2015; (ii) improve system performance (teaching, management and stewardship); and (iii) 
mobilize and utilize resources (financing, partnership, communication, social mobilization and 
implication of the private sector). 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The EDPP benefits from Morocco’s overall progress on environmental protection and from lessons 
learned under previous Bank-financed operations.  Accumulation of arrears in compensations for 
resettlement with respect to land acquisitions has been a generic issue in Morocco, even though the 
Government has deployed some effort to reduce the stock of these arrears over the past years. A 
technical audit was carried out in June 2009 to assess the situation of arrears and to review the 
implementation of school construction during the implementation period of the Bank’s previous 
education project with respect to resettlement measures and land acquisition. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.)
Borrower 0.0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
60.0
Total 60.0
6. Contact point 
Contact: Jeffrey Waite 
Page  3
Title: Lead Education Specialist 
Tel: 5360+227 / 212-537-636-050 
Fax: 212-537-636-051 
Email: jwaite@worldbank.org 
Location: Rabat, Morocco (IBRD)
 
