Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5494 
Operation Name 
Morocco Education Development Policy Program (First 
Operation) 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Primary education (75%); Secondary education (25%) 
Project ID 
P117838 
Borrower(s) 
MOROCCO 
Kingdom of Morocco 
Morocco 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
Ministry of National Education, Higher Education, Civil Servant 
Training and Scientific Research 
Morocco 
Tel: (212-37) 681-509, 687-232 
Fax: (212-37) 772-042 
Date PID Prepared 
February 22, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 18, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
May 20, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Investing in human capital through quality education 
is a priority in Morocco’s current 
development process.    The Government has overseen an impressive political, economic and 
social transformation, with a marked acceleration of structural reforms in recent years.   Sound 
macroeconomic management has produced solid foundations, and the country is on a strong 
recovery path from the stagnation of the 1990s due to sustained growth of nonagricultural output.  
While economic indicators have improved, inequality and poverty persist. Social indicators 
remain relatively low in comparison with other countries in the region.  Analytical work has 
underscored the low level of education (4-5 years on average) and skills of the workforce as 
being among the main factors which constrain the country’s economic growth and long-term 
competitiveness. The labor market is imbalanced with notable mismatch between job demands 
and graduation qualifications and skills. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The Program aims to support the implementation of the Government’s “Education Emergency 
Plan 2009-2012”, with a view to improving the effectiveness of service delivery and the quality 
of educational outcomes. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) comprises three pillars.  These pillars are: (i) 
encouraging growth, competitiveness and employment; (ii) improving quality service delivery; 
and (iii) promoting sustainable development within the context of climate change. Other cross 
Page  2
cutting themes, such as regional development, governance, public private partnerships, and 
regional integration are also covered. The Education Development Policy Program will address 
the issue of quality service delivery through: (i) improved management of the sector by way of 
increased decentralization to, and accountability of, the Regional Education Authorities that are 
responsible for local service delivery, (ii) increased targeting as a means to reach the most 
vulnerable and improve retention and reduce drop-out rates, and (iii) enhanced accountability of 
education personnel by means of performance-based measures. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.)
Borrower 0.0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
60.0
Total 60.0
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Under Government leadership, the MOE’s Department of National Education will be assigned 
responsibility for EEP implementation.  Implementation will be carried out under a matrix 
organizational structure with a “thematic” dimension and a “regional” dimension, ensuring 
coherence in the execution of the reforms.  Central and regional steering committees have been 
established, and these committees will be relayed also at the provincial and school levels.  The 
Central Steering Committee (CSC), which is chaired by the Minister, sets overall program 
objectives and priorities, reconciles decisions, finds solutions to issues and provides a report 
back system for decision-making.  The CSC is comprised of key members of the cabinet, as well 
as the Director of Strategy, Statistics, Strategy and Planning and the Director of Budget. The 
CSC holds monthly meetings which are periodically extended to include other central directors, 
the national coordinators and/or the Regional Education Authority directors. The Regional 
Steering Committee, guides the strategic direction of the Emergency Plan at the regional levels.  
Specifically, the Regional Steering Committee defines the implementation path of the regional 
programs, validates the action plans and monitors their implementation.  Finally, the Education 
Ministry will establish a Project Management Office, operated and staffed by a consulting firm, 
to carry out the core project management functions at the central, regional and provincial levels.
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Policies and interventions to be supported by the proposed program are largely pro-poor and 
promote equity. The program aims to improve physical and financial accessibility of basic 
education to all school-aged children in an equitable manner. The program is expected to 
improve the inclusiveness of the overall country’s economic and social development by 
providing the poor and the marginalized the capacity to reap the benefits of economic 
opportunities.  
 
Ensuring adequate institutional capacity to support reform implementation remains a key 
challenge.  The Government is aware of this issue and this is dealt with to some extent in the 
program. A wide range of measures and actions have been identified, including the 
Page  3
implementation of alternative approaches such as outsourcing and partnerships with qualified 
NGO and associations in service delivery. In addition, coordinated efforts have been deployed by 
the main donors to mobilize sizeable resources to support capacity building and technical 
assistance needs.   
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The execution of supply- and demand-side interventions would be driven by the need to narrow 
the gap between lagging and leading geographical regions (especially between urban, rural and 
semi-urban areas), as well as between girls and boys: (i) piloting of
 “community” schools in 
select remote areas and the provision of a complete schooling environment, including boarding 
facilities to primary school-aged children, under partnership arrangements with qualified NGOs; 
(ii) planned enhancement of demand side actions (including the ongoing pilot CCT program to 
improve school retention in disadvantaged areas with a focus on girls), and the development of a 
more integrated strategy to ensure equal access to and retention in primary education; and (iii)  
focus on improving the learning conditions in existing pre-schools in rural areas to largely 
benefit poor households.  
 
The proposed operation is not likely to have significant negative effects on the environment, 
forestry and other natural resources. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Jeffrey Waite 
Title: Lead Education Specialist 
Tel: 5360+227 / 212-537-636-050 
Email: Jwaite@worldbank.org 
Location: Rabat, Morocco (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
