Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
Report No. 14595
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
pUBLTC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 2423-JM)
JUNE 14, 1995
Public Sector Modernization Division
Technical Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Dollar (J$)
US$ 1 = J$32.5 (June, 1994)
J$ 1 = US$0.0307 (June, 1994)
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ARP          Administrative Reform Programme
ASAL         Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ASC          Administrative Staff College
BOJ          Bank of Jamaica
CAST         College of Arts, Science and Technology
CPI          Consumer Price Index
FACT         Financial and Accounting College of Training
FIS           Financial Information System
FMPI         Financial Management and Program Improvement Project
FSL          Fiscal Services Limited
GOJ          Government of Jamaica
HRMIS        Human Resources Management Information System
IMCAR        Inter-Ministerial Committee for Administrative Reform
MC           Ministry of Construction
ME           Ministry of Education
MH           Ministry of Health
MHA          Ministry of Housing and Agriculture
MOF          Ministry of Finance and Planning
MPS          Ministry of Public Service
NIBJ         National Investment Bank of Jamaica
OD           Organizational Development
OSC          Office of the Services Commission
PAMCo        Project Analysis and Monitoring Company
PE           Public Enterprise
PESAL        Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
PIP          Performance Improvement Program
PSC          Public Service Commission
PSIP         Public Sector Investment Program
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP          Structural Adjustment Program
STATIN       Statistical Institute of Jamaica
TAFEX        Technical Assistance Fund for Exporters
TAL II       Second Technical Assistance Loan
TFSAL II    Second Trade and Finance Sector Adjustment Loan
UWI          University of the West Indies
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                    June 14, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Jamaica - Public
Administration Reform Project (Loan 2423-JM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Jamaica Public Administration
Reform project (Loan 2423-JM) prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office,
with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
This US$6.8 million project (of which the Bank and Government were to provide US$4.5
million and US$2.3 million, respectively) was approved in May 1984 and closed on schedule in June
1988, with 97 percent of the Bank's loan having been disbursed. The project provided financing
for consultants, training, and equipment to help the Government prepare and implement improved
policies and procedures in the domains of civil service reform, financial management, and line
ministry restructuring.
The project received considerable Government participation in its preparation and was
initially characterized by a high degree of government ownership. An Inter-ministerial Committee
on Government Administrative Reform, chaired by the Prime Minister, gave initial momentum to
the Administrative Reform Program (ARP). During the first two years of the project, a "flurry of
activity" by the various teams of consultants and government units led to a number of proposals for
action, a substantial number of workshop and training activities, and some reorganization of
government units.
During the last two years of the project, however, few of the proposed actions were
implemented, mainly because of a faltering of Government commitment. As the PCR observes, "by
mid-1986 ARP had slipped off the [Government's] main political agenda as other pressures of an
urgent nature absorbed leadership." The lack of results in turn further weakened the commitment
to reform. Another factor contributing to the poor results was the lack of consistency and
continuity in Bank supervision. OED's Performance Audit Report on the Second Technical
Assistance Project to Jamaica (which ran concurrently with the present project, also supported the
ARP, and had an unsatisfactory outcome), noted that a fundamental problem with the ARP was
the "disconnect" between the blueprints for reform, the institutional realities, and the incentives
facing those responsible for implementing the reforms. The only lasting benefits appear to be some
relatively minor improvements in financial management. In retrospect it appears that, when the
problems developed, it would have been preferable for the Bank to suspend disbursements and,
when an appropriate solution was not quickly found, cancel the loan to avoid wasting financial and
staff resources.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory while institutional development and
sustainability are rated as negligible and unlikely, respectively. The PCR is informative and of
satisfactory quality. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 2423-JM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE    .................................................                                                                            i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ......................................                                                                           ii
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...                                                           .........             1
A.      Project Identity  ..........................................                                                                 1
B.   Background ............................................                                                                         1
C.      Objectives and Description   ..................................                                                             2
D.      Design and Organization  ....................................                                                               4
E.      Implementation    .........................................                                                                 6
F.   Results ...............................................                                                                         8
G.      Sustainability  ...........................................                                                                12
H. Bank and Borrower Performance .14
I. Project Relationships .15
J. Consulting Services .15
K. Project Documentation and Data .16
L.  Lessons to be Drawn for Future PSM Projects .17
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .......    19
Introduction    .........                            .....................................                                         19
Institutional Audits   .......................................                                                            19
Development of the Programme   ...............................                                                            20
Objectives .................................................                                                                       20
Organisation of the Programme    ...................................                                                               22
Operations of the Programme  .................................                                                            22
Consultancy  Support  ...................                               I          ......................                          23
Implementation    .............................................                                                                    24
Human Resources Management   ...............................                                                              26
The Public Service Commission   ...............................                                                           28
Line Agency Restructuring   ..................................                                                            28
Lessons Learned  .............................................                                                                     29
Conclusion   ................................................                                                                      30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloscd without World Bank authorization.l



TABLE OF CONTENTS (contd.)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................                              32
1.  Project Timetable                ......................    32
2.    Loan Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements         ..33
3. A. Project Financing .34
B. Project Cost Breakdown by Component .35
4. Status of Loan Covenants                ..36
5.   Use of Bank Resources
A. Missions ...........................................                              37
B. Staff-week Cost Summary  ................................                         38
6.    Related Bank Projects  ...... ............              ...................          39



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 2423-JM)
PREFACE
(i)    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Administration Reform
Project in Jamaica, for which Loan 2423-JM in the amount of US$4.5 million was approved on
May 22, 1984, signed on June 5, 1984, and became effective on September 5, 1984. The Loan
was closed on June 30, 1988 as originally agreed. US$4.38 millions were disbursed. The
remaining balance was canceled on February 12, 1990.
(ii)   Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Public Sector Modemization Division
of the LAC Technical Department (on behalf of the LA3C2 Country Department). This report
is based on an examination of the Loan Agreement, Supervision Reports, Project
Correspondence, Financial Statements, Audit Reports, and the studies and progress reports of
the consultants contracted under the Project. In addition, interviews were conducted both in
Washington and in the field with personnel in the Project Coordinating Unit and personnel
involved in the various components. Part II of the PCR was prepared by the Government of
Jamaica.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 2423-JM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This Project had its origins in the perception that the success of the Structural Adjustment
Program (SAP) required an systematic approach for the strengthening of institutional weaknesses
of government, beginning with core agencies and their policies, procedures, and systems. A
series of studies carried out for Government and for the World Bank had identified key
weaknesses in the institutional framework for accomplishing the goals of the adjustment program
and economic recovery, including the chaotic expansion of the public sector in both employment
and expenditure terms; dramatic deterioration of compensation and the resultant weakening of
the civil service, particularly at the technical and management levels; highly centralized
personnel systems in the central Government; the expansion of statutory bodies outside of the
central Government's civil service and expenditure control systems; and weak financial
management practices of line agencies, especially budget implementation and control systems.
2.    In response to the needs to carry out the SAP, Government earlier had requested a
technical assistance loan to support recruitment of high level experts for key advisory positions
in the public sector and consultants to carry out key studies to strengthen economic management.
This Technical Assistance Loan (TAL I -Loan 2106) was approved in 1982 to provide direct
support to the ongoing SAP through the improvement of management of the economy, but
without overhauling the existing administrative set-up because it was perceived that this would
be difficult and would take time to implement. However, it was clear that without dramatic
reform of the core institutions and human resource policies of government activity the likelihood
of success under the SAP was limited.
Objectives
3.    The Public Administration Reform Project, approved by the Board in May, 1984, was
intended to provide an integrated approach for the improvement of the operational and
administrative environment of Government. In this sense, the Project provided a core, albeit
ambitious, agenda for government administrative reform. Three distinct, but inter-related,
components were identified to be implemented over a four-year period: Human Resource
Management; Financial Resource Management; and Line Agency Restructuring. The Project



iii
was designed to make direct contributions to the achievement of these objectives by providing
consultants, training and equipment in support of: (a) the equipping of the Government's human
resource management agencies with the capacity to rationalize and manage Government's
compensation strategy and organizational structure, and to assist in the decentralization of key
personnel responsibilities to line ministries; (b) improving Government's financial capability by
installing a performance budgeting system, strengthening accounting and auditing functions,
developing a finance officers' corp, providing training in budgeting and accounting, and
strengthening the Ministry of Finance; and (c) restructuring a selected line ministry according
to a program management concept, and implementing the reforms designed under the first two
components.
Implementation Experience
4.    The Public Administration Reform Project was implemented over a four year period
(May, 1984 - June, 1988). While the early record of much of the activities under the loan
showed substantial promise, particularly through the institutionalization of the reform initiatives
in an Inter-Ministerial Committee on Government Administrative Reform (IMCAR) chaired by
the Prime Minister and an implementing unit for the Government Administrative Reform
Programme (ARP), the implementation record over the entire life of the Project is very mixed.
A flurry of activity by the various teams of consultants and government units led to a number
of proposals for action, a substantial number of workshop and training activities, some
reorganization of government units, and apparent commitment on the part of Government. Early
in the effective life of the Project a complete staff for the ARP and the core team of consultants
had been complemented, and a substantial amount of activity occurred in the planning of Project
activities. The creation of parallel task forces in Government to coordinate the financial
management and human resource management components and the creation of dual Executive
Directors within ARP also facilitated early implementation success. However, the creation of
plans, proposals, recommendations, and even the implementation of some restructuring did not
yield the implementation results expected.  More to the point, the sustainability of those
activities that were implemented has not occurred.
5.    In the area of human resource management, some six key areas of reform were intended,
including compensation policy and improvements, post classifications, restructuring of the
relationship between the Office of the Services Commission (OSC) and the Ministry of Public
Service (MPS) and decentralization to line ministries of certain personnel functions, a
management information system (HRMIS), pension administration, and training. However, by
the time of Project closing, the record was very uneven. The goal of compensation policy and
improvements intended to achieve decongestion in salaries, some parity (85%) with statutory
bodies and with private sector equivalents for management and technical positions, and a
restructuring of pay grades. In fact, salaries did not keep pace and further decline in morale for
civil servants continued in spite of the recommendations of a compensation plan and a first ever
private sector pay survey. While a new post classification plan was developed by Project end,
the plan was not implemented across the system and the end result (post-1988) was the



iv
coexistence of three distinct classification systems for the civil service. Significant restructuring
within MPS occurred, but little redefinition of the confused and overlapping responsibilities of
OSC/MPS occurred. Further, the decentralization of personnel functions did not occur. The
HRMIS development did involve the creation of a program, but little training occurred and by
Project end little of the inputting of data into the MPS computer system had occurred. In the
area of pension administration, significant reductions of the backlog occurred and revisions to
the Pension Act was accomplished. In the area of training, a substantial number of ad hoc
training activities occurred, but the effort at training became secondary. In all, a record of starts
without significant finishes.
6.    In the area of financial management the record of implementation is somewhat stronger,
although mixed. Key activities intended included the restructuring of the Ministry of Finance
and Planning and the computerization of key financial management systems (budget, accounting,
cash, debt, etc.), strengthening the role of the Financial Secretary, the introduction of a new
Financial Administration and Audit Act, establishing a Financial Officers' Corps, and perhaps
most importantly the implementation of a Performance Budgeting system.
7.    A number of key reorganizations occurred within the MOFP, including the creation of
a Controller General's division, reorganizing the Accountant General Department, strengthening
of the Budget Division and the PSIP/capital budgeting capacity, and the upgrading of the Public
Enterprise Division. The Office of the Financial Secretary was strengthened significantly and
equipped with a Deputy Permanent Secretary to oversee core operational functions. A new FAA
Act was completed and finally approved in 1991. However, in the area of systems development
the record is less noteworthy. Two key elements are especially difficult: performance budgeting
and the computerization of systems. In the case of the former, a new performance budgeting
system was developed and by the 1988-89 budget year some two-thirds of department heads
presented their budgets in the new format. However, budget presentation never translated into
budget implementation (line item) nor accountability. Weak training and sense of ownership of
the system within line ministries resulted in lack of commitment, and the desire at the center
(MOF) for accountability resulted in greater support for line item entries.
8.    In the case of computerization, progress in implementation was weak. At the time of
Project closing, some significant advances had been made (eg., computerization of debt
management system), although most implementation had not. Given a dramatic shift in the
willingness of the Bank to support either the approach to performance budgeting or existing
strategies of automating financial management systems, even existing plans and systems were
not sustained. This shift together with a change in Government resulted in the failure to
implement a number of initiatives that had been recommended and the lack of sustainability of
even many of those that had been implemented.
9.    Project design also called for the application of program  management and the
performance budgeting model in the context of the restructuring of a pilot ministry. In effect,
the activity contemplated under this component was intended to initiate the integrated application
of various systems under development in a practical test. The implementation of this component



v
attempted to build institutional capacity in line ministries through a series of Organizational
Development (OD) and Performance Improvement Programmes (PIP) in a highly participatory
framework. Beginning with the Ministry of Construction, a series of workshops/exercises were
undertaken utilizing the OD/PIP approach; however, the OD exercises were not fully linked to
the ongoing financial management or human resource management activities being carried out
by other consultant teams and, as a result, indicators of performance and strategies were
developed in a vacuum.
Sustainability
10.   Much of the activity initiated and even implemented under the Project proved not to be
sustainable much beyond the life of the Project. This is equally true for human resource
management and financial management components. The reasons for this lack of sustainability
are multiple and somewhat complex. While Project design and early implementation correctly
recognized that institutional development activities are not one time insertions of technical
assistance and that an integrated approach is necessary, the lack of continued commitment (by
Government and the Bank) to the longer term doomed some reasonably successful efforts. In
addition, the lack of a sense of ownership of the various reforms being initiated meant that once
consultancies terminated reform efforts waned. The high use of consultants during the early
years of the ARP, and the subsequent shift to whole new sets of (primarily international)
consultancies with the use of TAL II financing, resulted in substantial delays in implementation,
and problems of sustainability in that portion of the use of Loan proceeds. Consultants under
the Project often worked separately, rather than as a team, and often in the absence of
counterparts from within Government. Ironically, the use of TAL II funds was intended to
respond to delays in implementation under the Public Administration Reform Project. However,
the Bank's shift in the underlying basis for ARP I from an integrated administrative reform
project to a technical assistance project for financial management and a program oriented
management system occurred during turbulent times both for the GOJ (change of government)
and the Bank (reorganization and a shift in Project supervision at the end of the Project). One
result would seem to have been discontinuity in the Project and a need to reestablish Bank-
Government relations and GOJ commitment to the ARP.
11.   The results can be seen on the human resource management side in the coexistence
currently of three different classification systems for different segments of the civil service, each
originating from a different period of the dominance of a given approach among consultants.
Similarly, on the financial management side, at various times the budgeting approach has shifted
from line-item to performance to program to corporate planning, and the result is technical
confusion on the part of Government personnel and the ownership of no particular approach.
Finally, the failure of the Project to assure the implementation of significant pay and
employment reforms to assure the maintenance of even existing low levels of middle
management led to delays in implementation, a loss of morale with ARP, and an inability to
transfer ownership to technical and managerial personnel within Government.



vi
Findings and Lessons Learned
12.   Several key lessons emerge from this examination. The first and perhaps the single most
important lesson to be derived from the Project is that without substantial modification of the
conditions of pay and employment, the sustainability of administrative and institutional efforts
is unlikely. Increasing the pay and improving the employment conditions must be carried out
hand in hand in the rationalization of the numbers employed and with the improvement in the
quality of performance. These require strong political commitment and hard political decisions,
as well as a clear vision of the longer term objective: a reformed state with high quality
performance to carry out its responsibilities in a new public-private partnership. This political
will must be strong, but it must also be consistent. There is a need for consistency and
continuity both in terms of Government commitment and in terms of Bank support. This Project
began from a rather enlightened perspective on institutional development, i.e., the need for an
integrated approach based on the building of consensus within Government in order to assure
ownership of reforms. However, during implementation, this initial integration and the need for
early transfer were not realized. Consultants did not develop counterpart relationships, and
where those counterpart relationships did exist they were links to people not institutions.
Consultant teams worked independently. Training became a secondary activity. Secondly, there
was a need to build early successes even as administrative reform looks to the medium and long
term. Success becomes a means for assuring continued support. Much of the reform initiative
under the Project focused on the longer term at the expense of short term results.
13.   This focus on the longer term can be seen in a third lesson. The Performance Budgeting
system at the decentralized and technical levels was designed and implemented without taking
in consideration the shortcomings of the existing centralized budget process, such as the
inconsistencies existing between revenue and expenditure systems, and the problems in recording
expenditure accruals, and long-term warrants. These limited the effectiveness of the application
of new techniques, suggesting that technical reform must be developed in a sectoral context, yet
improving the parts without losing sight of the whole. Finally, very little equipment was
budgeted for this Project ($100,000), yet the Project called for the development of large scale
management information systems. More attention should be placed in the design stage on the
balance between institutional development and the need for enhancing technical capacity.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2423-JM)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
Name: .........P.ublic Administration Reform Project
Loan Number: ........ 2423-JM
RVP Unit: ..L......  Wain America and.Caribbean Region
Country:    ........................................ Jamaica
Sector: ........ Technical Assistance
B.   Background
1.   Jamaica began the 1970s with strong economic performance, a trend that was abruptly
reversed in the post-1973 period. Significant declines in virtually all economic indicators
characterized the remainder of the decade; the exceptions were rapid increases in current
expenditures as a result of decreasing private sector confidence and the growth of Government
expenditures. As a result of Government's expansionary policies for the public sector during the
1970s, fiscal performance was weak over the period. The Central Government current account,
which had registered a surplus of 6% of GDP in 1974/75, showed a deficit of 4% of GDP in
1979/80, a downward trend which was reflected in increased overall deficits. Reflecting this -
and declining production for export, particularly in bauxite/alumina manufacturing, sugar and
bananas - the balance of payments was under continuous pressure. Lack of confidence in the
late 1970s caused considerable capital flight, so the deficits resulted in increasing levels of public
debt. Many qualified persons in the civil service left their posts for more lucrative jobs in the
private sector and abroad. Emigration of skilled persons accelerated. After a deep and
sustained contraction in the 1970s, the economy of Jamaica by the early 1980s moved into a
period of stagnation, with mounting difficulties in servicing external debt. A severe balance of
payments crisis reflected serious structural deficiencies in the economy, a situation which
impeded the utilization of the country's productive capacity and hindered job creation.
2.    The Government which came to power in October 1980 was faced with considerable
economic problems, but was committed to a reform of past economic policies, and to changes
designed to reverse the economic decline of the 1970s. It saw the private sector as the main
engine of economic growth, and consequently sought a reduction in the role of the public sector,



2
through deregulation and divestment of government-owned assets. The development of exports,
particularly outside CARICOM, was considered the main impetus for economic recovery. The
Government also sought to improve the overall investment climate, in particular to attract foreign
private investment in sectors with potential for exports. The Government embarked on a
structural adjustment program (SAP) in 1981; the Bank supported this program with three
structural adjustment loans (SALs) in FY82 (US$76.2 million), FY83 (US$60.2 million), and
FY85 (US$55.0 million).
3.    The first SAL included measures intended to improve balance of payments management,
economic performance in industry and agriculture, and to strengthen both public and private
savings and investment. SALs II and III, approved in June 1983 and November 1984, covered
the same policy areas, but with the addition of action programs in the fields of energy and public
administration. The technical assistance requirements of the structural adjustment program
(especially supported under SALs I and II) were met through a US$6.1 million Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL I, 2106-JM). A Second Technical Assistance Loan for US$9.0 million
(TAL II, 2507-JM) continued efforts to support the structural adjustment program through
greater emphasis on institution strengthening and human resource development, and particularly
through projects in the export sector.
4.    As the result of several studies prepared for Government and studies prepared for the
World Bank, a consensus emerged that an overall systematic program of administrative reform
was necessary, beginning with core agencies and their policies, procedures, and systems. A
number of key conclusions emerged as to the weakness of the institutional framework for
accomplishing the goals of the adjustment program and economic recovery, including the chaotic
expansion of the public sector in both employment and expenditure terms; dramatic deterioration
of compensation and the resultant weakening of the civil service, particularly at the technical and
management levels; highly centralized personnel systems in the central Government; the
expansion of statutory bodies outside of the central Government's civil service and expenditure
control systems; and weak financial management practices of line agencies, especially budget
implementation and control systems. The Public Administration Reform Project, approved by
the Board in May, 1984, was intended to provide an integrated approach for the improvement
of the operational and administrative environment of Government. Three distinct, but inter-
related, components were identified to be implemented over a five-year period: Human Resource
Management; Financial Resource Management; and Line Agency Restructuring.
C.   Objectives and Description
5.    The Public Administration Reform Project was designed to make direct contributions to
the achievement of these objectives by providing consultants, training and equipment in support
of: (a) the equipping of the Government's human resource management agencies with the
capacity to rationalize and manage Government's compensation strategy and organizational
structure, and to assist in the decentralization of key personnel responsibilities to line ministries;
(b) improving Government's financial capability by installing a performance budgeting system,



3
strengthening accounting and auditing functions, developing a finance officers' corp, providing
training in budgeting and accounting, and strengthening the Ministry of Finance; and (c)
restructuring a selected line ministry according to a program management concept, and
implementing the reforms designed under the first two components. These objectives, as defined
in the President's Report, presented an integrated, albeit ambitious, agenda for the Project.
6.    The Project, then, consisted of technical assistance for:
a. Human Resource Management Component ($904,000). The Project's human resource
management component objectives were: (i) compensation improvements for civil service
professional, managerial, and technical (MPT) positions to 85 % of that paid to statutory
bodies and public enterprises over a 3-5 year period. Bank financing would support an
analysis of the current salary structure and a program for reduction of the compensation
gap; preparation of a long-term compensation and position classification strategy, and the
strengthening of MPS' institutional capacity to manage the compensation program
($271,000); (ii) rationalization of public sector organization, through a study of
manpower and salary structure and guidelines/criteria for the creation of new statutory
bodies; (iii) modernization of human resource management through decentralization of
key personnel functions to line ministries ($408,000); (iv) development of a public
service training and consultancy program ($225,000);
b. Financial Resource Management Component ($2.252.000). The objectives of this
component, as initially stated, were to: (i) strengthen the role of the MOF's Financial
Secretary by creating and staffing an office to provide FS with policy analysis capability
and the ability to operate a government-wide Financial Officer Corps; creating a
Permanent Secretary position to oversee core functions of MOF; and, defining and
clarifying the scope of FS' authority and responsibility, and rationalizing coordination
mechanisms and structure of MOF (US$144,000); (ii) restore the institutional capabilities
of MOF by filling authorized positions; equip and provide adequate space and facilities;
and revising needed policies, procedures and systems (US$108,000); (iii) install a
Performance Budgeting System to help the Government convert a line-item budget system
into an output-oriented performance budget system (US$600,000); (iv) study pay
structure for financial staff and training need during the process of establishing a
government-wide Financial Office Corps and undertake long-range financial management
training program through existing academic institutions (UWI, FACT, CAST)
(US$1,400,000).
c. Line Agency Restructuring Component ($200,000). The objective of this component
was to restructure a selected line agency into the Program management format and to
utilize the pilot ministry as a means to integrate the other components in a practical
experience that would offer methodologies and a model for future restructuring of other
line ministries.



4
7.    A reassessment by Bank personnel between December, 1987 and June, 1988, as well as
the decision to transfer supervision of the remaining funds available under TAL II activity to
Country Operations, led to a redefinition of the use of funds for interim financing of the ARP.
Concern for the soundness of the approach to budget systems and the implementation plans for
installation of computer systems resulted in decisions to change the entire approach to Bank
support for ARP to a program of technical assistance to support financial management systems
development and a corporate planning and management improvement program. Coupled with
a simultaneous change in Government, this shift in objectives resulted in substantial delay, a
change in long-term consultants for the program, and a less than clear commitment on the part
of the GOJ to the new emphases. Delays continued for close to two years as the TAL II funding
became a means for an extended preappraisal for the follow-on project.
D.   Design and Organization
8.    Substantial care and effort are evident in the design and organization of the Project. The
Project was designed with funds available from SAL II and TAL I, taking into consideration the
limited absorptive capacity of Government and the need to increase the cadre of qualified
professionals in management positions. As noted in paras. 3 and 4, recognition of the need for
a more integrated approach to administrative reform had emerged as a consensus during the first
several years of the SAP. A series of institutional audits of financial and human resources
management had been reviewed favorably by the Prime Minister and formed the basis of
proposals for Bank support. The establishment of the IMCAR, of the Administrative Reform
Programme of the GOJ, and the designation of two Executive Directors in late 1983 became the
impetus for Bank/Government action. Two task forces were established to guide the overall
policy direction of the program under the guidance of the IMCAR: the Financial Management
Reform Task Force (FMRTF) chaired by the Financial Secretary, and the Committee on Public
Service Reform (CPSR) chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MPS.
9.    Management of the Project. Two executive directors, sharing offices and equipment,
were assigned to this Project, one managing the Financial Management Component, and the
other managing the Human Resources and Line Agency Components. A public administration
advisor was assigned to the Project to assist and advise the two executive directors. While some
controversy surrounded this co-management approach, it was clear that the design effort was to
assure the integration of the two principal activities of the Project. In addition to Project
Management and consultants, the Project established early a series of high Working Groups
composed of civil servants and consultants to develop reform proposals for the two key
components: six (6) were established for Financial Management and five (5) for Human
Resources Management. As a result of the careful prior work carried out in project design and
in the design of the management approach high levels of commitment characterized the first two
years of the project and the level of activity that quickly got off the ground was impressive.
Within three months of Project effectiveness (September, 1984) the basic core team of
consultants had been recruited and Working Groups established.



5
10.   Clearly, in terms of efforts to focus on institutional development through the use of a
carefully integrated program design and management approach the Jamaican Public
Administration Project design was an outstanding effort at administrative reform in context. The
design focused on a few core government reforms in a well-linked package. The high level
Government commitment and integration into the working level of the reform initiatives was
cultivated from the early moments of design, and as a result IMCAR and the task forces met
with great frequency in the early days of the Project though much of 1986.
11.   However, if there was a serious shortcoming in the design of the components of the
Project, it lay in the failure of the components to face the larger issues that plagued the
machinery of Government. These larger issues would plague implementation throughout the
life of the Project.
12.   For example, this failure is evident in the Performance Budgeting component of the
Project. Performnance Budgeting was originally designed in the United States in the 1950s and
used experimentally, but never adopted by the US Federal Government. Thereafter, through the
efforts of the United Nations, it was adopted by a number of developing countries, while
Jamaica initially adopted a line-item budgeting system. In the 1970s Jamaica started to move
toward program budgeting.
13.   The Project initiated the conversion of that system into an input/output performance
budgeting system, the format of which was agreed to by MOF and Parliament. It was designed
to improve budget management by assessing the performance of budget programs and activities,
but the design did not recognize that the same problems that were taxing the previous system,
i.e. poor organization, poor planning, and lack of expenditure and revenue forecasting ability,
would impair a new system as well. In particular, the design did not take into consideration the
fact that government accounts were still kept on a manual basis and in a line-item format. This
meant that the Budget Office at MOF was not only unwilling but singularly unable to convert
to the new system and coordinate the consolidation in the new budget format. The plan, in
effect, did not set up the necessary tools, such as computerization of government accounts, to
make the system viable. Indeed the starting point should have been a new and computerized
accounting system. Similarly, the focus on budget presentation in a performance budget format,
while MOF continued to focus on accountability in budget implementation, as well as the
persistence of a warrant system of unpredictable expenditure capabilities, belied the capability
of the system to become effective.
14.   Furthermore, the new system required the Government to establish output indicators of
performance and develop a taxonomy of operative and functional divisions in the Government
to identify the so called "cost centers" generating measurable outputs.  This was done
inductively, without questioning whether the existing structure was efficient or conducive to the
type of analysis a performance budget requires. A reorganization of the internal structure of the
ministries would have improved the odds for the success of the system.



6
15.   Similar shortcomings can be seen in the pilot Ministry exercise. The Ministry of
Construction was selected as the pilot ministry because of (a) the relative ease with which its
output can be measured; (b) its orientation towards production; (c) its expressed willingness to
experiment; and, most importantly, (d) the relatively good state of its accounts. However, this
ministry had similar problems in disaggregating disbursements and the accounts for each
administrative unit, i.e. input measures, as those facing the other ministries. This pilot ministry
was to serve as the testing ground to identify problems of implementation and feasibility of the
system. This never really happened; the system was sequentially developed throughout public
entities but the fundamental problems were never confronted or resolved.
16.   Finally, in the case of the human resources management improvements the efforts were
confronted from the outset with the critical issue of pay and employment improvements. In the
absence of these, no degree of structural alteration would resolve the management capacity issue.
17.   Both design and the organization of the Project were severely affected by changes in
Project management in the Bank, albeit primarily in terms of continuity of activities. Country
Operations in LAC, which inherited the management of the Project within the Bank in January
1988, reviewed the efforts under all components and affected a radical shift in approach. The
design of the FMPI Project as a follow-on was not aimed at continuing the efforts of this Project
but rather at reversing the course away from performance and toward program budgeting,
focusing less on human resources development, and emphasizing the need for computerization
of financial management. While the decision to change course might have been appropriate, the
abruptness of termination of all contracts and efforts did not permit careful consideration of what
could have been salvaged. The termination of the directions of the Project affected not only
Performance Budgeting but other components as well, such as the Debt Management system and
the Controller General's office, in a way as to hamper severely the sustainability of reforms.
E.    Implementation
18.   The Public Administration Reform Project was implemented over a four year period
(May, 1984 - June, 1988). While the early record of much of the activities under the loan
showed substantial promise, particularly through the institutionalization of the reform initiatives
in an Inter-Ministerial Committee on Government Administrative Reform (IMCAR) chaired by
the Prime Minister and an implementing unit for the Government Administrative Reform
Programme (ARP), the implementation record over the entire life of the Project is very mixed.
A flurry of activity by the various teams of consultants and government units led to a number
of proposals for action, a substantial number of workshop and training activities, some
reorganization of government units, and apparent commitment on the part of Government. Early
in the effective life of the Project a complete staff for the ARP and the core team of consultants
had been complemented, and a substantial amount of activity occurred in the planning of Project
activities. The creation of parallel task forces in Government to coordinate the financial



7
management and human resource management components and the creation of dual Executive
Directors within ARP also facilitated early implementation success.
19.   Early implementation activity success stories were numerous. Performance Budgeting
in the pilot ministry (Ministry of Construction) had an early start, and in May 1985, the MC had
already prepared 86/87 budget estimates in the new Performance Budgeting format. At the same
time, arrangements were in progress to implement accelerated training of financial analysts.
Furthermore, the final draft for the establishment of the Financial Officer Corps was ready by
mid-1985. By the first quarter of 1985, a new organizational structure for MOF was designed
implementing recommendations of a report financed by the project; and in October the
Government began strengthening the Office of the Financial Secretary.
20.   During this period, some attention was put on generating a series of tangible short-term
results (such as reducing pension backlog and strengthening MOF's control of Public
Enterprises) in order to maintain and develop continued support for the Project.  However,
between January and February 1985 a shift of focus among Bank staff and consultants led to a
decision to convert the planning and implementation strategy from a task to a stronger
institutional approach. The aim was to develop sufficient institutional capacity to ensure
effectiveness of new policies, systems, and programs. Throughout 1985, the project slowly
shifted its emphasis toward institution building. In addition, meetings were organized to
coordinate the work of many consultants working on institutional development in different
institutions. These were important to define a common and consistent strategy. In that year the
project was successful at identifying the weaknesses in the systems, but was not able to maintain
consensus and enthusiasm for reform. Implementation had slowed and the lack of tangible
results hindered the level of commitment.
21.   Although, the progress was substantial, there was a number of factors which delayed
implementation. Activities slowed in 1985, due in part to the rush to meet the requirements of
the new SAL (SAL III), and in part due to the postponement of high-level appointments in
MOF. To resolve the latter problem the Bank intervened directly by corresponding with the
Prime Minister to encourage the expansion of top-level management in key ministries to assure
the existence of a core group devoted to long-term reform.  The implementation of new
organizational structures was delayed by disagreements between ministries and divisions within
ministries over proposed hierarchical and pay structures.
22.   The Project slowed markedly in the latter part of 1985, and support for the Project began
to dwindle. The Bank responded with an increased effort to bring the Project back on track,
recognizing the critical importance of the PM support, stressing the necessity to strengthen
policy objectives and priorities, and developing work plans and targets. The former high rate
of IMCAR meetings and involvement had also slowed, and pressure on GOJ was renewed to
resume IMCAR's meetings, to appoint a talented reform-minded permanent secretary to MPS,
to enlarge the cadre of managers in MOF and in PSC, and to regain the approval of ARP
constituencies such as the Permanent Secretary's Group, Heads of Department Group, and the



8
Civil Service Association. By mid-1986 ARP had slipped off the main political agenda as other
pressures of an urgent nature absorbed leadership.
23.   By the beginning of 1987, the Project had regained some momentum, particularly in the
area of civil service compensation and the continuation of the phased introduction of
performance budgeting in the ministries, but lacked action on the implementation of the
recommendations on MOF reorganization, decentralization of personnel activities, and the
rationalization of parastatal organizations. At the time, the lack of action in these key areas
called into question the commitment to reform of the high-levels of Government.
24.   The final blow to continuity in the implementation of Project activities came in early to
mid-1988, the result of the aforementioned reassignment of Project supervision from the Bank
side (para. 17), a clear shift in the new leadership within GOJ to continue with the direction of
activities undertaken during the previous Administration, and the removal of virtually all long-
term consultants involved in the Project (by June, 1988).
F.    Results
25.   However, the creation  of plans, proposals, recommendations, and  even  the
implementation of some restructuring did not yield the implementation results expected. In the
area of human resource management, some six key areas of reform were intended, including (a)
compensation policy and improvements, (b) post classifications, (c) restructuring of the
relationship between the Office of the Services Commission (OSC) and the Ministry of Public
Service (MPS) and decentralization to line ministries of certain personnel functions, (d) a
management information system (HRMIS), (e) improvements in pension administration, and (f)
training. However, by the time of Project closing, the record was very uneven.
* The goal of compensation policy and improvements intended to achieve decongestion
in salaries, some parity (85%) with statutory bodies and with private sector equivalents
for management and technical positions, and a restructuring of pay grades. In fact,
salaries did not keep pace and further decline in morale for civil servants continued in
spite of the recommendations of a compensation plan and a first ever private sector pay
survey. Since substantial support for reform was based upon salary improvements and
decongestion, the effect was significant.
* While a new post classification plan was developed by Project end, the plan was not
implemented across the system and the end result (post-1988) was the coexistence of
three distinct classification systems for the civil service. The failure to complete the
classification was, in part, due to the slow and partial receipt of classification survey
questionnaires (only 2,000 of 10,000 received), and to the expansion of the scope of the
questionnaires to include twice as many professional, technical, and managerial positions
(10,000 up from 5,300).



9
Significant restructuring within MPS occurred with the creation of a new Operations
Division, a Standards and Policy Division, and reorganization of the Manpower
Development Division; however, little redefinition of the confused and overlapping
responsibilities of OSC/MPS occurred. Further, the decentralization of personnel
functions did not occur, partially due to the unwillingness of OSC/MPS to share
responsibilities with line ministries.
* The HRMIS development did involve the creation of a program, but little training
occurred and by Project end little of the inputting of data into the MPS computer system
had occurred. In fact, the weakness of the HRMIS unit in technical and hardware terms,
as well as decisions to revamp the data base for input have meant a relatively dormant
system since Project closing.
* In the area of pension administration, significant reductions of the backlog occurred
and revisions to the Pension Act was accomplished.
* In the area of training, a substantial number of ad hoc training activities occurred
(through the various colleges and within MPS), but the effort at training became
secondary as the shift to a broader institutional approach superseded task specific
activities.
26.   In the area of financial management the record of implementation is somewhat stronger,
although also mixed. Key activities intended included the restructuring of the Ministry of
Finance and Planning and the computerization of key financial management systems (budget,
accounting, cash, debt, etc.), strengthening the role of the Financial Secretary, the introduction
of a new Financial Administration and Audit Act, establishing a Financial Officers' Corps, and
perhaps most importantly the implementation of a Performance Budgeting system.
* One of the aims of this component was to strengthen the Office of the Financial
Secretary. By October 1985, MOF opened the position of Executive Secretary to the
Financial Secretary as the first step in the establishment and organization of the Office
of the Financial Secretary to which officers responsible for functional divisions would
have to report. Later the office was expanded to include the Head of Economics and
Fiscal Planning. To this office were attached policy advisors, the central administration
of MOF, and the Internal Audit. Too little was done, however, to strengthen this office
in terms of policy analysis and staff support, and to develop policy coordination
mechanisms, to enable this office to execute its functions effectively.
* Among the Project's priorities, the central agencies, in particular MOF, were to be
strengthened to enhance their ability to monitor reform. For this purpose, it was thought
necessary to reorganize MOF, restructure the Budget Division, institute a Controller
General, restructure the Accountant General Office and the Office of the Treasury, and
introduce a Financial Management Advisor. By the end of 1986 MOF adopted the basic
organizational design for budgeting, controllership and treasury functions. Between



10
November and April 1987, the appointments of high-quality professionals to the posts of
Budget Director, Accountant General, Controller General, and the Head of the Public
Enterprise Division, set the stage for reforms in those areas.
* In the Accountant General's Office, a number of task forces were established to resolve
staffing and organizational problems, namely the high vacancy rate, the pension backlog,
and the absence of a system to monitor debt movements. As a result of the effort some
thirty positions were filled, and pension backlog was reduced by 50 percent. Both of
these improvements turned out to be short-lived and the benefits temporary. The only
tangible result was the design and implementation of a customized debt management
system able to generate a multiplicity of reports on composition of debt and servicing
status. The system became fully operational by 1987 with a complete and updated
account of all debt outstanding, and up to 1988 was an effective tool in the formulation
of fiscal policy. Since, however, failure to maintain the system, particularly in terms of
human resources, have hampered the efficient use of the system.
* The position of Controller General was instituted in September 1987 to improve
budgetary control.  A detailed program  for staffing, training and installing key
accounting and control systems was developed; and 19 assistant controllers were
appointed and posted in the various ministries to report directly to the Controller
General. New established lines of authority placed the accounting office in each ministry
under the respective controller, who had control over specific expenditures. Excess on
votes (unapproved) expenditures were reduced from 22.5 millions in 85/86 to 13.8 in
86/87 and kept falling (with the exception of election expenditures in 88/89) to 3.8 in
89/90. The resulting reports from the Auditor General reflected the improved level of
accountability.  Furthermore, the new authority structure increased the level of
confidence of the accounting staff to speak up regarding actions to be taken and
purchases to be avoided. The position of Controller General, however, became quickly
controversial. While some of the Permanent Secretaries had agreed to relinquish their
authority on matters of accounting, others felt their power reduced and their actions
interfered with. With the advent of a new government, lobbying from the PSs succeeded
in convincing the Government to modify the position and reduce its authority and
responsibility from ex ante control to ex post facto inspection. The Controller General
was reduced to an Inspectorate within MOF.
* A new Financial Administration and Audit Act was completed and finally was approved
in 1991.
* Finally, with regard to the establishment of the Financial Officer Corps, the Project
aimed at upgrading financial and accounting staff throughout the Government. A final
draft for establishing the Corps was prepared in July 1985. The process stalled,
however, and plans were not reactivated until April 1987 when the Government again
reviewed the proposal. This latter effort was again unsuccessful.



11
27.   By far the largest part of the Financial Management component was the installation of
Performance Budgeting. Implementation of Performance Budgeting began in 1985 when the
Ministry of Construction (MC) was identified as the pilot entity. Training in Performance
Budget began at this time together with the request for purchase of equipment to computerize
the preparation of the National Budget in MOF. The decentralized structure of MC required
officers in the accounting units in the various locations to be trained so as to produce the
necessary reports which were to feed back into the budget process. An effort was made to
develop standardized formats for these reports. By 1986, the appropriate officers in MC had
been trained and had started to produce quarterly budget reviews. This, however, became a
major problem. Reports, which were critical to implement a performance budget, were often
not filed or they were not delivered on a timely basis, mostly due to the unwillingness of local
managers to comply, and to the absence of an incentive system that would encourage them to
do so. Further problems were associated with (a) the failure of the Project design to develop
an accounting system that would serve as the fundamental supporting mechanism; and (b) with
the simplicity of the budget format which made performance budget an inadequate tool for
management. The latter was addressed by further disaggregating cost centers into activities, as
a program budgeting system would require.
28.   The experience at MC was supposed to identify problems for replication of the
experience, and to modify and facilitate the implementation in other entities, but it is apparent
that no change in approach was made after the problems in MC were recognized. This was the
result of the failure of the Bank supervising staff to realize what was happening and force timely
corrective action.
29.   Implementation proceeded, and, in FY87-88, 16 out of 50 government entities had
introduced performance budgeting. By FY88-89 the number had increased to 30, or 60% of all
heads of departments. The speed of implementation was quite satisfactory, and this device was
useful to identify needed reforms in core and line ministries. Further problems, however, had
already emerged. These included (a) the lack of uniformity in the classification's design and
structure both across different entities and across different functions within the same entity; (b)
the fact that quantitative performance indicators were a very misleading proxy for the type and
quality of goods and services provided; and, (c) the difficulty in compiling work plans to
schedule activities, targets, and resource allocations, given the lack of qualified personnel and
the difficulties in gathering the necessary information.  Thus, budget presentation never
translated into budget implementation (line item) nor accountability. Weak training and sense
of ownership of the system within line ministries resulted in lack of commitment, and the desire
at the center (MOF) for accountability resulted in greater support for line item entries.
30.   In the case of the Ministry of Health (MH), the experience with performance budgeting
was considered a helpful and necessary step. MH's structure had always been programmatic.
This facilitated the implementation of performance budgeting which in turn benefitted the
ministry by inducing technical officers to come together and define targets for the first time.
The evaluation of performance and various measures of success gave incentives for defining a



12
strategy for improvement. The main problem preventing reforms from being fully implemented
in MH was the lack of computerized accounts.
31.  In the case of computerization, progress in implementation was weak generally. At the
time of Project closing, some significant advances had been made (eg., computerization of debt
management system), although most implementation had not. Given a dramatic shift in the
willingness of the Bank to support either the approach to performance budgeting or existing
strategies of automating financial management systems, even existing plans and systems were
not sustained. This shift together with a change in Government resulted in the failure to
implement a number of initiatives that had been recommended and the lack of sustainability of
even many of those that had been implemented.
32.   The Cash- and Financial-Management systems were never implemented under this
Project, but became the focal point in the design of the successor project, Financial Management
and Program Improvement Project (FMPI). Training financed by the Project, did, nevertheless,
include a comprehensive financial management training program. This consisted of seminars
on performance budgeting, on-the-job guidance on accounting procedures, training of financial
management trainers, and 6-week courses to 26 budget analysts and 30 auditors.
33.   Project design also called for the application of program  management and the
performance budgeting model in the context of the restructuring of a pilot ministry. In effect,
the activity contemplated under this component was intended to initiate the integrated application
of various systems under development in a practical test. The implementation of this component
attempted to build institutional capacity in line ministries through a series of Organizational
Development (OD) and Performance Improvement Programmes (PIP) in a highly participatory
framework. Beginning with the Ministry of Construction, a series of workshops/exercises were
undertaken utilizing the OD/PIP approach; however, the OD exercises were not fully linked to
the ongoing financial management or human resource management activities being carried out
by other consultant teams and, as a result, indicators of performance and strategies were
developed somewhat in a vacuum.
34.   In all, a record of substantial starts, potential progress, but without the significant finishes
to be expected from the early experience of implementation.
G.   Sustainability
35.   Much of the activity initiated and even implemented under the Project proved not to be
sustainable much beyond the life of the Project. This is equally true for human resource
management and financial management components. The reasons for this lack of sustainability
are multiple and somewhat complex. While Project design and early implementation correctly
recognized that institutional development activities are not one time insertions of technical
assistance and that an integrated approach is necessary, the lack of continued commitment (by
Government and the Bank) to the longer term doomed some reasonably successful efforts. In



13
addition, the lack of a sense of ownership of the various reforms being initiated meant that once
consultancies terminated reform efforts waned. In the case of training, the high outward
mobility of public employees due to the uncompetitive structure of public wages made it difficult
to reap the benefits of skill development. In the case of systems, little attention from the Bank
side was placed on follow-up work to assure continuity of efforts. In project design, the failure
to ensure adequate technical capacity and physical capacity to put systems in place had a
profound effect on sustainability of systems. Staff reports point out that the initial automation
proposals of the Project did not clearly define the financial and human resource systems to be
developed or specify the equipment requirements. A decision was made to postpone the
procurement of computer equipment until completion of the design of the financial management
system under FMPI. Similar lack of decisions on the HRMIS side have meant the need to begin
virtually anew with HRMIS. Finally new organizational structures were changed or eliminated
with the advent of a new Administration in 1989.
36.   The high use of consultants during the early years of the ARP, and the subsequent shift
to whole new sets of (primarily international) consultancies with the use of TAL II financing,
resulted in substantial delays in implementation, and problems of sustainability in that portion
of the use of Loan proceeds. Consultants under the Project often worked separately, rather than
as a team, and often in the absence of counterparts from within Government. Ironically, the use
of TAL H funds was intended to respond to delays in implementation under the Public
Administration Reform Project. However, the Bank's shift in the underlying basis for ARP I
from an integrated administrative reform project to a technical assistance project for financial
management and a program oriented management system occurred during turbulent times both
for the GOJ (change of government) and the Bank (reorganization and a shift in Project
supervision at the end of the Project). One result would seem to have been discontinuity in the
Project and a need to reestablish Bank-Government relations and GOJ commitment to the ARP.
37.   The results can be seen on the human resource management side in the coexistence
currently of three different classification systems for different segments of the civil service, each
originating from a different period of the dominance of a given approach among consultants.
The case of the HRMIS system is a clear example of the failure to sustain efforts. Turnover,
limited commitment to maintenance of the system, outdated and quickly outmoded data used for
input, and weak technical computer capacity for the system have been left in a state of disrepair.
38.   Similarly, on the financial management side, at various times the budgeting approach has
shifted from line-item to performance to program to corporate planning, and the result is
technical confusion on the part of Government personnel and the ownership of no particular
approach. The closing of the loan brought to a close also the contract of the consultant in charge
of the effort who was working for the Accountant General's office on a full time basis. With
his departure, no sufficiently competent personnel was left in place to maintain the Debt
Management system and to date, while the system is still in use and reports are generated for
public policy consumption, the data have ceased to be reliable. Furthermore most of the



14
equipment is left unutilized. Maintaining the system, updating the programs to reflect new loan
formats, and reviewing current information could be a medium-term task for a skilled computer
technician. The recurrent vacancies in this position and the absence of sufficient technical skill
has greatly hampered the effectiveness and reliability of the system, which could be revamped
with limited financial resources.
39.   Finally, the failure of the Project to secure the implementation of significant pay and
employment reforms to assure the maintenance of even existing low levels of middle
management led to delays in implementation, a loss of morale with ARP, and an inability to
transfer ownership to technical and managerial personnel within Government. This may be the
single most important lesson to be derived from the Project: without substantial modification of
the conditions of pay and employment, the sustainability of administrative and institutional
efforts is unlikely.
40.   The function of Controller General was eliminated as a result of discontent on the part
of numerous PSs in the line ministries. No expertise was replaced in the line ministries to
develop transparency and accountability in the accounting and budget process.
41.   Performance Budgeting came to be viewed unfavorably by the Bank's staff and all
consultants contracts in this area were suspended at the closing of the loan before completion
of the effort. This was the result of (a) the fact that the device seemed to change the format of
budget preparation but not the efficiency of budget execution, and (b) the disappointing
performance of the system in other developing countries. Efforts toward reforming the budget
process continued in a different direction under the FMPI Project. In effect, a decision was
made to terminate the system before its longer term efficiency or sustainability could be
assessed. In some cases, however, the system was used and operated much after the closing of
the loan. In the case of MC, the budget was presented in Performance format up to 1991 when
the new project took effect. In addition, the transition to Program Budgeting implemented under
FMPI, as well as the Corporate Planning exercise of the new Project, were greatly facilitated
by the experience with Performance Budgeting given the similarities of the two systems.
H.   Bank and Borrower Performance
42.   In general, Bank supervision and performance during the first three years of the project
appears reasonably strong. However, there appear to be several exceptions. When efforts to
learn from shortcomings in the application of performance budgeting in MC and to implement
changes in the use of performance budgeting in other ministries, there would appear to have
been a failure of the Bank supervising staff to realize what was happening and force timely
corrective action. In addition, portions of the project were caught in the internal dynamics of
Bank reorganization and shifting operational responsibilities within the Bank that clearly resulted
in implementation delays and some friction between Bank and Borrower. It is not clear that a
sense of Borrower ownership of the revised ARP I was present at the time of the decisions to
shift the purpose and funding of activities. For a period of time (from late 1987 through 1988)
the lack of continuity in supervision and the changing use of ongoing consultancies by the Bank



15
resulted in delays that are a function of intra-Bank divisional shifts. Twice the management of
the Project within the Bank shifted from one division to another.  On January 1, 1987
responsibility was transferred from the Program Division to the Public Sector Management
Division, and, in January 1988, from the Public Sector Management Division to Country
Operations. The different ideas and strategy of the different task managers seriously affected
continuity and clarity of objectives as well as progress.
43.   In the initial stage of the Project there was strong Government commitment to the
program, and the approach was action-oriented and time-phased. However, with the absence
of clear task-specific results, commitment to the Project began to wane by the end of 1985.
Deepening economic crisis by 1986 shifted attention on the part of leadership toward urgent
policies; the result was project slowdown, evident perhaps most clearly in the limited activity
of IMCAR in 1986. It became increasingly evident that Government ownership of the Project
at the level of individual Ministries was less present than desirable, a problem that worsened
with time.
44.   Actual management of the Project and progress with disbursement was deemed
satisfactory by Bank staff throughout the Project. However, effective monitoring of the use of
funds plagued the project throughout. Communications between Bank and Borrower note the
continuing problem of the lateness and poor quality of Project Audit Reports.
45.   Finally, the period subsequent to the reallocation of funds from the TAFEX financed
under TAL II proved to be a period of flux and delay on the part of Government, and a clear
waning of commitment to the course of the use of remaining funds for ongoing reforms
(including ARP I) is evident. While the effects of Hurricane Gilbert and the expectations of
imminent elections account in part for this delay, it is equally clear that by 1988 commitment
to ARP had reached a low point.
I.    Project Relationships
46.   The most significant aspect of Project relationships in the case of this loan was that
between ARP I and the two TAL loans. In the case of TAL I, it was recognition of the need
for a more integrated approach that led to the design of the Public Administration Reform
Project. In the case of TAL II, the use of reallocated funds to support ongoing ARP activities
and the preparation of ARP II was an effort to assure the coordination among various lending
operations, and although implementation delays were significant, the support provided is evident
in the new FMPI Project.
J.    Consulting Services
47.   The consultants hired under the Project were generally found to be competent and of
high-quality. However, the large number of international consultants of very high level may
have been both a blessing and a curse. Their presence provided a high level of quality advice



16
on the broad issues of institutional development; however, in a number of cases the "part time"
nature of services provided and the lack of development of institutional counterparts left
Government without guidance.
48.   In the case of the Financial Management component, experiences with consultants were
mixed. The Ministry of Construction was very satisfied with the support and guidance received
from consultants who, while working on a part time basis, were found to be available at
demand. The Accountant General's Office also was quite pleased with the consultant who
implemented the Debt Management system. Other entities, however, complained that the part
time services did not afford them a sufficient level of guidance, and that, in some cases, the
consultants generated general recommendations but did not enter in enough detail to make the
recommendations readily executable. The main problem in both cases was the vacuum in terms
of expertise that was created as a result of the closing of the loan. The extensive training effort
was not an effective tool to address this problem given the high mobility of skilled personnel to
the statutory bodies and to the private sector due to the uncompetitive level of public wages.
49.   Similarly, the development of the post classification exercise under the Human Resources
component was successful only to a point. The willingness of the consultants to continue with
large scale reclassification was seen by local counterparts as a descriptive exercise of individual
by individual classification. The result was that by the end of the Project only one fourth of
posts had been reclassified, and the remaining posts were left to the counterparts to continue.
Remaining classification proceeded (and proceeds) slowly without a focal logic for classification
until recently. Much effort was expended for limited payoff.
50.   One clear exception to the quality effort of most consultants was the repeated delays and
poor quality in the provision of timely and accurate audit reports by the consulting firm.
K.   Project Documentation and Data
51.   The available documentation is of high quality. The Back-to-Office Reports display
analytical depth and were helpful in the writing of this PCR, although there appears to be some
bias in reporting when compared to retrospective examination of progress and results. The
result of the bias is that as task management shifted, perceptions of the overall progress and
results changed dramatically. Documentation however is incomplete. This is due to (a) the fact
that responsibility for the Project at the Bank fell on three different divisions, (b) that part of the
documentation was filed under other loans (i.e., TAL II and FMPI), and (c) the time elapsed
between closing of the Loan and the writing of this document which made the search for
documents more arduous. Specifically, documents relating to the details of disbursement and
of timing of execution of specific components as well as audits reports transmitted by GOJ were
not available for review. This absence was assuaged to some extent by the ability to interview
a number of key participants in the Project activities. Finally, the time spent supervising the
Project is obtained from the Back-to-Office Reports, but no estimate for total staff-weeks could
be secured.



17
L.    Lessons to Be Drawn for Future PSM Projects
52.   Several key lessons emerge from this examination. The first and perhaps the single most
important lesson to be derived from the Project is that without substantial modification of the
conditions of pay and employment, the sustainability of administrative and institutional efforts
is unlikely. Increasing the pay and improving the employment conditions must be carried out
hand in hand with the rationalization of the numbers employed and with the improvement in the
quality of performance. These actions require strong political commitment and hard political
decisions, as well as a clear vision of the longer term objective: a reformed state with high
quality performance to carry out its responsibilities in a new public-private partnership. This
political will must be strong, but it must also be consistent.
53.   This suggests a corollary lesson. There is a need for consistency and continuity both in
terms of Government commitment and in terms of Bank support. The need for consistency and
continuity both in terms of Government commitment and in terms of Bank support is paramount
in institutional development projects. This Project began from a rather enlightened perspective
on institutional development, i.e., the need for an integrated approach based on the building of
consensus within Government in order to assure ownership of reforms. However, during
implementation, this initial integration and the need for early transfer were not realized.
Consultants did not develop counterpart relationships, and where those counterpart relationships
did exist they were links to people not institutions. Consultant teams worked independently.
Training became a secondary activity.
54.   Third, there was a need to build early successes even as administrative reform looks to
the medium and long term. While the focus of administrative reform should be in the medium-
to long-term, it is important to identify small areas where results can be achieved in the short-
term in order to ensure continued support of the individuals/agencies involved. Success becomes
a means for assuring continued support. Much of the reform initiative under the Project focused
on the longer term at the expense of short term results.
55.   This focus on the longer term can be seen in a fourth lesson.  The Performance
Budgeting system at the decentralized and technical levels was designed and implemented
without taking in consideration the shortcomings of the existing centralized budget process, such
as the inconsistencies existing between revenue and expenditure systems, and the problems in
recording expenditure accruals, and long-term warrants. These limited the effectiveness of the
application of new techniques, suggesting that technical reform must be developed in a sectoral
context. yet improving the parts without losing sight of the whole.
56.   The process of transition from design to implementation can be facilitated by careful
front-end project preparation work, although constant cultivation of commitment through success
is necessary. One of the very strong aspects of this project was the careful early and well
designed preparation of the Project, hampered in implementation not by poor up front work but
by the lack of limited tasks with demonstrable results at each stage.



18
57.   While the use of expert consultants is warranted. the experience of this Project is that
there are limits in the absence of clear mechanisms and methodologies for the transfer of
expertse. The Project involved teams of high-powered consultants who, it would appear, failed
to interact among themselves across components and failed to assure the transfer of expertise to
institutions and not just to individuals. Given the high turnover rates, links to people were
less effective than links to institutions.
58.   Finally, very little equipment was budgeted for this Project ($100,000), yet the Project
called for the development of large scale management information systems. More attention
should be placed in the design stage on the balance between institutional development and the
need for enhancing technical capacity.



19
GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM PROGRAMME
Project Completion Report - Part II
on the Public Administration Reform Project (Loan 2423 JM)
April 1984 - June 1988
Introduction
1.   The Public Administrative Reform Project (ARP) focussed basically on improving
the central financial and personnel management systems and procedures of the
Jamaican public service with the aim of achieving efficiency and effectiveness in
public service performance.
2.   During the early 1 980s the deepening economic crisis had resulted in an
inescapable dependence on foreign aid programmes.  The rapid expansion of
government activities, including proliferation of non civil service public sector
organisations, coupled with an acknowledged weakness in the central administrative
machinery, had imposed a strain on the financial resources of the country, as well as
management capacity of the public sector. The growth of the public sector was
naturally influenced by a diversity of goals and objectives, which needed to be
regulated by the setting of clear and effective performance standards and
maintenance of appropriate organisational and systems control.
3.   The Government's concern regarding the economic crisis and consequent
decision to carry out a programme of restructuring the economy led to the design of
a programme of public administrative reform.
Institutional Audits
4.   During May 1983 the Government commissioned a Washington-based firm,
Trade and Economic Development Associates (TEDA) - to undertake institutional
audits of financial and human resource management in order to identify the problems
impeding productivity and efficiency and to design plans for reforms to form the basis



20
of proposals for support from the World Bank. The audit reports identified the
weaknesses in performance not only in line ministries but also in the Ministry of
Finance and Planning (MOFP), Ministry of the Public Service (MPS), and Office of the
Services Commissions (OSC).  The findings of the audits were informed by
examination of existing relevant reports and consultations with senior public servants.
Development of the Programme
5.   On November 8, 1983, two statements were issued by the Prime Minister and
Minister of Finance, endorsing the main recommendations of the TEDA reports, and
outlining the main elements of an Administrative Reform Programme to be undertaken
by two task forces. The appointment of the Executive Director of the Financial
Management Reform Task Force (FMRTF) was made on November 14, 1983 and that
task force was established on November 21, 1983. The task force for Human
Resource Management was designated Committee for Public Service Reform (CPSR)
and established on December 2, 1983 and its Executive Director appointed.
6.   The Executive Director for Financial Management was made responsible for
general administration of the Project and both Executive Directors collaborated on
formulation of the budget required for local resources and prepared drafts of a
summarised Integrated Implementation Plan.
Objectives
7.   The Project had the ambitious aim of improving the operative effectiveness of
central and line agencies of Government by Financial Management, Human Resource
Management and Line Agency Restructuring. Specific objectives were outlined for
each component.



21
8.   Key recommendations of the audit report on Financial Management identified
for implementation concerned -
a)   Strengthening of MOF's normative role, responsibility, authority,
organisational structure and operational systems in respect of the office
of the Financial Secretary, Debt Management, oversight of Public
Enterprises, budgeting systems and the Financial Administration Division.
b)   Development of a Financial Officer Corps including a comprehensive
training programme.
c)   Introduction of performance budgeting
d)   Reorientation of supervisory, management and executive leadership
styles
9.   The central objectives of the Human Resource Management Improvement
Programme concerned:
Compensation Improvement for Civil Service Professional, Managerial and
Technical posts
Decentralization of authority for key personnel actions from the MPS and PSC
and conversion of these agencies to policy-making, regulatory common service
and appellate roles.
Building central government's capacity to maintain accurate employment
records an statistics.
Lifting the prestige of Government employment primarily through improvement
of working environment, training, recognition and reward of performance in
addition to compensation improvements.
Reduction of proliferation of separate entities within the GOJ by establishment
of criteria for creating new statutory bodies and reviewing the need for
continuation of existing ones.



22
Organisation of the Programme
10.  An Inter-Ministerial Committee on Administrative Reform (IMCAR), chaired by
the Prime Minister, was established with the Minister of the Public Service as Vice-
Chairman to give policy directions, approve plans and monitor overall progress. The
Committee commenced meeting in February 1984 and to the end of June 1988 held
7 regular meetings.
11.  The ARP Secretariat commenced operations on April 1, 1984 with the two
Executive Directors, a Public Administration Consultant (starting June 1984) and
support staff. The Executive Directors undertook the planning, monitoring and
coordinating work of respective components under the general direction of the two
Task Forces and in consultation with six Working Groups for Financial Management
and five for Human Resources Management and Line Agency Restructuring. The
Financial Management Reform Task Force (FMRTF) and the Committee on Public
Service Reform (CPSR) were chaired respectively by the Financial Secretary, and the
Permanent Secretary, MPS. Each Working Group concentrated on a major element of
the reform plan, and consisted of individuals with a diversity of skills and experience
in the particular area of activity.
12.  The FMRTF held fifteen (15) meetings between April 1984 and June 1988,
giving consideration to a number of reports. The CPSR held a total of twenty-three
(23) meetings to June 1988 and over this period deliberated on twelve (12) reports
submitted by the Working Groups.
Operations of the Programme
13.  An integrated approach was adopted for improvement in organisational
performance. Performance budgeting, together with decentralisation of authority for
certain personnel actions was seen as the main means through which management



23
decision-making and responsibility for productivity would be combined within the
operational agencies.    A structured organisation development/performance
improvement programme (OD/PIP) was pursued to provide the framework for
integrating the various components of the ARP to prepare infrastructure and staff
requirements for the introduction of reform measures.
Consultancy Supgort
14.  The Public Administration Advisor who served with the ARP from June 1984
to June 1988 headed the team of consultants employed for varying periods over the
life of the Project.  Some thirteen foreign consultants served on the Financial
Management Component for periods ranging from one year to four years in the areas
of Budget Reform, Debt Management, Consolidated Fund and supporting automation,
Financial Officers' Corps development and Training.    Among these, a core group
of four individuals served for the life of the project or the better part thereof, although
under the aegis of a total of four different firms over different contract periods.
1 5.  The Human Resource Management component employed for varying periods
three overseas firms (two USA and one Canadian) comprising a total of 10 foreign
nationals. In addition, two Jamaican firms were contracted to work respectively on
design of the computerised employee data-base and conduct of a compensation
survey.
As for the Line Agency Restructuring component, the initial two years saw the
employment of a Caribbean regional agency whose team comprised two regional and
four local consultants to assist with the Organisation Development/Performance
Improvement Programme. Over the final two years, the regional nationals elected to
continue to serve under individual contracts together with four Jamaican consultants.
Other consultancy assistance received was of a short-term nature and concerned
3-month Training Courses in extended Auditing and Budget Analysis by the
University of Connecticut - Institute of Public Service



24
Training in Project Planning/Appraisal for Budget Officers (local consultant)
Assessment of Management Communications and  Installation  of the
Coordinator Programme in ARP (U.S. consultant)
Implementation
16.  Implementation of agreed plans was generally partial due to various constraints.
As concerns Financial Reform, an overall implementation plan to strengthen the Office
of the Financial Secretary and the Ministry as a whole, was prepared by a World Bank
adviser providing, inter alia, for streamlining and coordinating the functions of
budgeting, cash management and controllership.
1 7. Proposals accepted by the Task Force and approved by IMCAR included
upgrading of the position and remuneration of the Financial Secretary to the highest
level in the civil service and creation of a new post of Senior Deputy Financial
Secretary at the level of Permanent Secretary. Important appointments were made to
the posts of Heads of the Economics, Budget and Public Enterprise Divisions,
Controller General and Accountant General.  Adjustments were made in the
organisation and staffing of the Budget Division and a computerised system
implemented for Budget compilation and control.
18.  The Controller General Division was added to the structure of the Ministry in
April 1987, its primary objective being to monitor expenditure, revenue and other
receipts and payments and ensure the prompt presentation of relevant financial
statements for the various levels of financial management.    A design for
computerisation of the expenditure transactions and accounts and the operations of
the Division was however suspended by the Financial Secretary pending review by a
World Bank team.
19.  Control over Public Enterprises in the MOFP was re-defined and clarified in the
operations of a separate Division from the Economics Division and proposals for a



25
Public Enterprise Act were submitted by the Financial Secretary to Cabinet. The
staffing was improved along with the appointment of a new head, and plans were
prepared to extend the computerisation of data from selected agencies. A survey of
public sector entities was undertaken to enable updating of the Public Sector Register.
20.  Several permanent appointments were made in the Accountant General's
Department. A computerised Public Debt Management information system was
installed and most areas were already operational.
In the Supply Division a review of the policies, systems and procedures was
undertaken in order to improve the system of Supply and Stores Management, and a
computerised system using a specially developed software package was under study.
21.  Proposals for establishment of a Financial Officers' Corps put forward by the
Working Group, were held in abeyance pending a clear understanding of the financial
management structure and procedures. Nevertheless, assessment of training needs
was undertaken and intensive training courses were conducted in budget analysis
techniques, financial analysis, capital project planning/appraisal, extended scope
auditing as well as the continuous on-the-job training in controllership accounting
procedures. Plans for the development of a comprehensive programme of financial
services training, to be delivered through FACT, were under consideration.
Proposals on revision of the Financial Administration and Audit (FAA) Act were placed
on hold pending review of proposals for restructuring of the financial management
system.
22.  The new system of Performance Budgeting was aimed at helping managers
throughout the service to increase productivity by relating expenditure to work
performance and to inform decisions on allocation of scarce resources. The Ministry
of Construction (Works) was chosen as a 'pilot' agency for implementation.  The
staff of the Budget Division was trained to acquire a sound understanding of the
principles and to assist in structured and on-the-job training of line agency officers.



26
At the start, a series of seminars were held for the Budget and FAA Divisions of
MOFP, representatives of all Ministries, FACT and ARP.
23.  Presentation of the 'pilot' Ministry's budget in the performance format was
achieved in financial year 1985/86 and was favourably received by the Cabinet and
Parliament. Performance Budget procedures and techniques were applied to one-third
of the ministries and departments in the 1987/88 budget, including MOFP and MPS.
By the 1988/89 budget submission, application of the procedures and techniques had
been applied to two-thirds of the Ministries/Departments. However, implementation
of the necessary adjustments to the accounting system including computerisation
lagged behind. An inspection by a world Bank team in December 1987 recommended
a review of the system of performance budgeting that was being established and
implementation was accordingly suspended.
Human Resources Management
24.  Implementation of Human Resources Management reforms was relatively
limited. Firstly, no significant progress was made in effecting compensation
improvements regarding the goal of setting civil service professional, managerial and
technical compensation at 85% of that paid by statutory bodies and public
enterprises. A Human Resources Policy statement was approved by Cabinet in 1986
outlining the basic principles which should guide the development of an effective and
modern system covering every functional area of human resources management.
However, follow-up action on such development was relatively limited and in some
cases proposals submitted under the Project on specific areas failed to elicit any
response from the relevant agency. Relatively few of the recommendations put
forward for strengthening of the central personnel functions had been implemented by
the end of the Project.
25.  The main changes introduced over the period may be summarised as follows.
Restructuring of the Ministry of the Public Service commenced including an Operations



27
Division to provide a more integrated and timely service to line agencies and a
Standards & Policy Division to enable continuous review and update of human
resource-related standards and policies.
Extensive revision of the post classification system was undertaken and preliminary
work completed for implementation of the new occupational series for approximately
9,000 managerial, professional and technical occupations and a training manual
developed.
The first comprehensive survey of private sector/government compensation was
conducted and MPS staff trained to carry out similar surveys in future. A new pay
plan for 50 pay grades of the civil service was also prepared.
Reduction of arrears of pension computations by 50% was achieved.
A standard employee records system was introduced and updating of employee
records service-wide commenced, followed by data entry to provide a foundation for
a computerised human resource management information system.
The MPS introduced the Colleae of Public Management to incorporate its training
institutions viz; ASC, FACT, Civil Service Training Centre, Secretarial College,
Mandeville Training Centre and Language Training Centre and thereby provide an
integrated central training service. It further established an Operations Division to
provide effective and coordinated services to other ministries and departments in
human resources management, and to monitor the operations of these functions
throughout the service and a Standards & Policy Division to develop, promulgate and
keep under constant review and updating, government-wide standards and related
staff orders as stipulated in the Human Resources Policy.



28
The Public Service Commission
The PSC delegated to permanent secretaries the exercise of disciplinary actions in
respect of officers up to the highest clerical grades and drafted the relevant
amendments to the Public Service Regulations.
Line Agency Restructuring 
26.  The organisation development/performance improvement programme (OD/PIP)
provided an integrated approach to implementation of the various aspects of reform
within each Ministry and training activities for progressive development of skills in
areas like managerial planning, problem-solving, team-work, systems analysis,
organisation diagnosis, inter-personal relations and decision-making. It further were
provided orientation for senior managers to the objectives of the Administrative
Reform Programme.
27.  A total of fifteen Ministries/Departments received orientation to the OD/PIP
approach to restructuring and strengthening their organisations, viz, Construction
(Housing) and (Works), Education, Health, Public Service, Local Government, Finance&
Planning, Justice, National Security, Youth & Community Development, Accountant
General, Post & Telegraphs, Office of the Services Commissions, Labour, and Mining,
Energy & Tourism. Of this number, eleven had initiated PIP action planning, eight of
them reaching the stage where an Implementation Team had been established and
actively engaged in implementing, reviewing and updating action plans on a regular
basis. Four agencies had undertaken an internal assessment of their training needs
and had commenced implementation of training activities to meet such needs. The
Ministries of Education and National Security instituted Long Service Award
ceremonies for staff and MPS did the same on a service-wide basis. These were very
well received.
28.  It was felt important that a core of "change agents" or "facilitators" be
identified and trained in each agency. Sixty-six persons from 17 agencies service-



29
wide completed the four- module programme during 1985-1987 and 59 others from
25 agencies received training between February and May 1988. The overall impact
of these efforts was, however, lessened by the fact that relatively few members of
Ministries' administrative leadership actively led the process.
Lessons Learned
29.  Foremost among the lessons learned were the importance of and the need for:
-    an accepted master plan at the initial stage collaboratively prepared, widely
circulated among potential users of the reform activity and subject to approved
adjustments.
-    structured  activity  plans for areas  or stages  of development and
implementation, and to assist coordination and monitoring and the timely
availability of resources;
-    reasonable acceptance and commitment to the objectives and processes of the
reform activity by all levels of users;
-    clearly defined responsibility, accountability and authority for implementation
of reforms in both central and line ministries;
-    motivational techniques to be applied at all stages of reform processes;
-    formal assignment of counterparts to work with consultants in the interest of
greater understanding of the problem, the transfer of technology and
sustainability of reforms;
-    formalised monitoring of activities by agency personnel and ARP Secretariat;



30
prompt attention to obstacles in the reform processes;
full-time rather than part-time consultancy support for systems development
and implementation;
a central store of information on the activities of and relating to the reform
programmes undertaken;
vigorous public relations efforts together with ongoing sharing of information,
knowledge and ideas, achievements of reform activities and their benefits to
maintain enthusiasm for reforms;
precise problem-based training programmes with relevant course content,
combined with appropriate timing and selection of participants;
management-led rather than consultant-led reform processes.
Conclusion
30.  The Bank's assessment of the achievements and problems of the key issues of
the first phase of the Administrative Reform Project is generally acceptable. There
were no material differences of opinion and the summation of the Lessons Learned will
provide invaluable guidance to the success of future reform projects. It seems
important to include the following which would clarify the emergence of some of the
problems.
31.  The absence of a suitably articulated master plan for this phase virtually
permitted consultants to assume too much of the leadership role and left very little
room for independent monitoring activities. In some cases consultants attempted to
dictate the conduct of work and in many instances the agencies or persons concerned



31
were unprepared for them, especially as some key members of the consultancy team
operated on short-term visits. They were not provided with full-time counterparts to
carry on in their absence, thus impeding continuity of effort and skills transfer.
32.  The targets set for the Project were clearly too ambitious, given the level of
resources made available to implement corrective action for the state of affairs
revealed in the Institutional Audits. It appears that greater benefits would have been
derived if the commencing stage had been used to prepare a comprehensive reform
plan in collaboration with Ministry personnel expected to lead key areas, and
articulating activities/tasks, timing and resources including consultancies. This would
have assisted in building ownership of the reforms by key officers and in achieving a
smooth development and implementation of the reforms identified.
33.  The Project extended itself in attempting a wide range of reforms within a
limited time-frame. The experiences undoubtedly laid the foundation for subsequent
reform projects to be more appropriately designed and to move smoothly and
effectively throughout the Civil Service.



32
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
ADMMISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 2423-JM)
PART Im: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Project Timetable
Activity                         Original Loan Dates'              Actual
Initiating Activities                                       September, 1983
Appraisal Mission                                           Nov.-Dec., 1983
Negotiations                                                April, 1984
President's Report                                          May 3, 1984
Board Approval                                              May 22, 1984
Loan Agreement                                              June 5, 1984
Effectiveness                    September, 1984            September 5, 1984
Loan Closing                     June 30, 1988              June 30, 1988
Project Completion               January 1, 1988            September 2, 19882
1. From the President's Report and the Loan Agreement.
2. See note in Table 2.



33
Table 2: Loan Disbursements
Bank FY
Cumulative As At
1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
President's
Report Estimate                        1.00  2.50  4.0   4.5   4.5
Actual                                0.57  2.30  3.63  4.29  4.38
Actual as Percentage                  56.8  92.1  90.7  95.4  97.4
of Estimate
Note: Last Disbursement Date was September 2, 1988 for US$4,815.26. Although the Closing Date
was June 30, 1988, the account was kept open pending the receipt of $17,959 from UNDP on
February 12, 1990. On that same date, US$115,908.25 was approved for cancellation.



34
Table 3A: Project Financing (US$)
Category                                Allocation in                 Actual
Loan Agreement
(Schedule 1)
Consultant Services                     3,500,000.00            4,289,281.59
Equipment and Supplies                    100,000.00               84,485.77
Fee                                       11,222.00                11,222.00
Initial Deposit                          250,000.00
Contingencies and Unallocated            638,778.00
Account Refund                                                       -897.61
TOTAL LOAN ACTIVITY                     4,500,000.00            4,384,091.75
Cancellation                                                      115,908.25
TOTAL                                   4,500,000.00            4,500,000.00



35
Table 3B: Project Cost Breakdown by Component (in thousands of US$)
Original
Project Component                                        Allocation1           Actua2
A. Project Management                                     410                   226
B. Financial Resource Management                         2,252                 1,614
1. Strengthening the Office of the Financial Secretary  144
2. Installation of Performance Budgeting           600
3. Development of Financial Officer Corps         1,400
4. Strengthening MOF                               108
C. Human Resources Management                             904                  1,586
1. Compensation Policy                             271
2. Rationalization of PS Organization
3. Decentralization of Personnel Function          408
4. Development of Civil Service Training &         225
Consultancy Programs
D. Restructuring of Line Agency                           120                   946
Total Base Cost                                          3,686                 4,373
Front End Fee                                              10                    11
Contingencies                                             804
TOTAL COSTS                                              4,500                 4,384
1. President's Report, Annex IV.
2. Estimate.



36
Table 4: Status of Loan Covenant
Section        Brief Description of Covenant                                 Compliance
3.01a          Carry out the objectives of the Project                       Complied
as set forth in Schedule 2, and provide funds,
facilities, services and other resources.
3.01b          Select by Sept. 30, 1984, the agency to be restructured       Complied'
under Part C of the Project.
3.02a          Employ consultants, including a public administration         Complied2
consultant to assist the coordination of the Project,
in accordance with Bank's guidelines.
3.02b          Ensure quality and experience of staff assigned to            Complied
the nanagement of the Project.
3.03           Use all goods and services financed by the Project
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
3.04a          Promptly furnish to the Bank the plans, reports, and          Complied'
contract documents.
3.04b          Maintain records to identify goods and services financed;     Complied
enable the Bank to visit facilities and examine the goods;
and furnish regular cost and benefit information to the Bank.
3.04c          Prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on the execution of
the project no later than six months after the closing date.
3.05           The Bank may publish contracts' description, name and         Complied
nationality of the contracted party, and the contract price.
3.06           Open and maintain a Project Account until the closing date;   Complied4
deposit US$300,000; replenish account as needed; and ensure
the account is operated according to Bank's procedures.
1. See Annex 11 of the July 31, 1988 Office Memorandum.
2. See telex on June 9, 1984.
3. See correspondence dated May 15, 1985.
4. In a letter dated Aug 17, 1984, the Bank of Jamaica reported having opened account no. 0300993 for Loan 2423-JM on
Aug 9, 1984. On Aug 20, 1984 J$1.2 million were deposited in said account. At some points, the account was not
replenished (lst quarter of 1985, see Memo of May 8, 1985). However, this did not interfere with implementation since
sufficient funds were available in the account.



37
Table 5: Use of Bank Resources
Table 5A. Missions
Stage of Project                         Fiscal                   No. of                             Total
Cycle                                    Year                    Persons          Days               Days
Preparation'                             1984
Appraisal                                1984
Negotiations2(4/84)                      1984                    n.a.              5                     5
Supervision(7/84)                        1985                     1                9                     9
Supervision(1/85)                        1985                     1                n.a.                n.a.
Supervision3(3/85)                       1985                     1                6                      6
Supervision4(4/85)                       1985                     1               10                    10
Supervision4(1 1/85)                     1986                     1                6                      6
Supervision(2/86)                        1986                     1                6                      6
Supervision5(3/86)                       1986                    2                 5                    10
Supervision6(11/86)                      1987                     3               3-6                   15
Supervision(3/87)                        1987                     3                7                    21
Supervision(4/87)                        1987                     2                7                    14
Supervision7(12/87)                      1988                     1                6                      6
Supervision(5/88)                        1988                    n.a.             15                    15
Supervision7(6/88)                       1988                    5                15                    75
PCR(9/93)                                1994                     2               4-6                   10
TOTAL8                                                                                                 208
1. The project was prepared with funds provided under SAL 11 and TAL 1.
2. Held in Washington, D.C..
3. Mainly devoted to the appraisal of the Sugar Rehabilitation Project.
4. Includes TAL ll.
5. Includes agricultural sector review and operational missions follow-ups.
6. Includes agricultural sector review and operational missions follow-ups.
7. Includes both ARP I Supervision and ARP 1I preparation.
S. The total overstates extent of supervision since almost every mission includes supervision of other projects.



38
Table 5B: Staff-week Cost Summary
Fiscal Year       Staff-weeks
(Supervision only)
1984               0.8
1985               4.0
1986               0.3
1987               19.6
1988               3.1
TOTAL              27.8



39
Table 6: Related Bank Projects
Project/Loan No.    Purpose                                      Year of     Status
and Title                                                        Approval
2105-JM:           Structural Adjustment aimed at fostering export-  1982    Fully disbursed
Structural         led growth and the private sector through
Adjustment Loan I   attention on the need for public sector savings,
($76.2M)           public investment restructuring to favor
infrastructure, and deregulation. Non-traditional
exports, agricultural, and manufacturing received
particular attention.
2106-JM:           The project intent was to support the recently    1982    Fully disbursed
Technical          initiated and ambitious SAP program of the GOJ
Assistance Loan    and the broad SAL of 1982 through the provision
($6. 1M)           of consultants for studies and high-level experts
for key advisory positions and training of local
managers.
2315-JM:           Structural Adjustment was intended to deepen    1983      Fully disbursed
Structural         initiatives undertaken under SAL I with the
Adjustment Loan II  additional inclusion of action programs to
($60.2M)           improve public administration.
2478-JM:           Structural Adjustment loan continued to focus on 1984     Fully disbursed
Structural         the medium term but included measures aimed at
Adjustment III     achieving the stabilization program, including
($55.OM)           criteria for financial performance of public
enterprises, a new energy program, budgetary
reforms, a revised PSIP, and enhancement of
export development programs.
2507-JM: Second    The objective of the loan was to provide      1985        Fully disbursed
Technical          technical assistance to help GOJ to implement its
Assistance ($9.OM)  structural adjustment efforts by providing
consultants, equipment and training for: (a)
institutional development, (b) export promotion,
and (c) human resources development.
2848-JM: Trade     The objective of the loan was to support ongoing 1987     Fully disbursed
and Finance Sector  Structural Adjustment and Stabilization Programs
Adjustment Loan I   as revised to take into account recommendations
($40.OM)           of Tripartite Commission (IMF, IBRD, USAID)
that visited Jamaica in 1985-1986. Principal foci
included efforts to simplify tariff system and
reduce non-tariff barriers, separating monetary
and fiscal policy, eliminating financial market
distortions, and creating the institutional and
fiscal environment to strengthen capital markets.



40
cont. Table 6
Project/Loan No.    Purpose                                    Year of     Status
and Title                                                      Approval
2899-JM:           Objectives of the loan were to assist GOJ to  1988      Fully disbursed
Education Program   prepare options for basic education rehabilitation
Preparation and    and development program and to strengthen the
Student Loan       Government's student loan program for higher
($8.3M)            education with studies, technical assistance,
training, and funds.
2849-JM: Public    The objectives of the loan were to support the    1987  Fully disbursed
Enterprise Sector    SAP of the GOJ by improving the fiscal
Adjustment Loan-   performance of enterprises through improved
PESAL ($20M)       monitoring and control, improved operating
balances, the elimination of government arrears,
and a reduction in the size and scope of the
public sector.
3111-JM: Social    Objectives of the project were to improve   1989        Currently in
Sector             efficiency, delivery, and management of social          operation
Development        services, especially health and education, by
Project ($30.OM)    supporting the Government's Human Resource
Development Program (HRDP).
3174-JM:           Purpose of the loan was to support Government  1990     Fully disbursed
Agricultural Sector  ongoing program of adjustment through
Adjustment Loan    improvements in the sector incentive framework,
($25.OM)           continuation of the divestiture process, and
assistance in establishing an institutional basis for
dealing with the improper use of pesticides.
3303-JM: Second    Purpose of the loan is to strengthen and deepen   1991  Currently in
Trade and Finance  initiatives and reform efforts begun under              operation
Sector Adjustment   TFSAL 1.
Loan ($30.OM)
3386-JM: Financial  Purpose of the project is to support GOJ efforts  1991  Currently in
and Program        to improve the efficiency of financial and human        operation
Management         resource management in the Central
Improvement Loan   Administration, building on and incorporating
($11.5M)           lessons learned under ARP I. Principal
components focus on financial management,
program management, computer systems,
training, and the overall management of reform
through the Office of the Prime Minister.






IMAGING
Report No:       14595
Type: PCR



