Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
L o . CPYi
Report No. P-3796-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF $ 4.5 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
May 3, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autlborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Official Rate (1979 - Nov. 1983)       Official Parallel Rate (Jan. 1983 -
Nov. 1983)
US$1.0  =  J$ 1.78                     US$1.0  =  J$ 2.4 - 2.9
J$ 1.0  =  US$0.56                     J$ 1.0  =  US$0.34 - 0.42
Official Rate (April 2, 1984)
US$1.0  =  J$3.5
J$ 1.0  =  US$0.29
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
British/US Units                       Metric Equivalent
1 inch (in)                 =          2.54 centimeters (cm)
I foot (ft)                 =          0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                 =          1.609 kilometers (km)
I square mile (mi2)                    2.589 square kilometers (km2)
1 acre                      =          0.4047 hectares (ha)
i mile per hour             =          1.6093 km per hour
I imperial gallon (gal.)   =           4.454 liters (1)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP       Administrative Reform Program
BOJ       Bank of Jamaica
CPI       Consumer Price Index
CPSR      Committee for Public Service Reform
FPMTF     Financial Resource Management Task Force
MOF       Ministry of Finance and Planning
MPT       Managerial, Professional and Technically Skilled Civil Servants
MPS       Ministry of Public Service
PSC       Public Service Commission
PSIP      Public Sector Investment Program
SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan



FOR OFFICIAL U'SE ONLY
JAMAICA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
LOAN AND PRtOJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Government of Jamaica
Amount:                       US$4.5 mill:Lon equivalent (including a capitalized
front-end fee).
Terms:                        17 years, inacluding 4 years grace; standard variable
interest rate.
Project Description:          The proposed project supports the Administrative
Reforta Program adopted by the Government of Jamaica as
part of its overall structural adjustment program
supported by the Bank's second SAL. The objective of
the Jamaican program is to create an improved
administrative environment in the Government to
support more effective and efficient performance on
the part of Jamaican line ministries, particularly
those critical to the structural adjustment process
and economic development in general. To accomplish
this ihe Jamaican program and the proposed project
focus on strengthening and modernizing three core
ministries (Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Public
Service, and the Public Service Commission) and the
restructuring of line ministries in a program
management format. The project finances consultants,
training and equipment for three major objectives:
(i) to equip the Government's human resource
management agencies with the capacity to rationalize
and manage the Government's compensation strategy and
organizational structure, and to assist in the
decentralization of key personnel responsibilities to
line ministries; (ii) to improve the Government's
financial capability by installing a performance
budgeting system, strengthening accounting and
auditing ftnctions; developing a financial officer
corps, providing training in accounting and finance,
and strengthening of the Ministry of Finance; and
(iii) to restructure a selected line ministry
according to a program management concept.
Benefits and Risks:           The proposed project will better equip the Government
to adjust its economy to changing conditions, to
manage its available human and financial resources
effectively, and to become a facilitator of economic
development.  If the project is to be successful,
commitment at the political and technocratic level
must be sustained. In addition, the absolute shortage
of trained personnel in Jamaica is a source of risk.
Substantial amounts of training built into the project
will mitigate this problem, but shortages of qualified
staff are likely to persist and may extend the time Lt
takes to obtain the full benefits of the reform
program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceA
their official duties. Its contents ray not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



---- --US$ million-------
Project Costs:                            Foreign    Local      Total
Project Management                          0.41       0.67       1.08
Human Resources Management Component        0.90       0.52       1.42
Financial Resource Management
Component                                 2.25       0.68      2.93
Restructuring of Line Ministry              0.12       0.10       0.22
Total Base Costs                          3.68       1.97      5.65
Price Contingencies                       0.81       0.35      1.16
Total Costs                               4.49       2.32      6.81
Front-End Fee                             0.01       -         0.01
Total Financing Required:                   4.50       2.32       6.82
Project Financing:
IBRD                                        4.50      -          4.50
GOJ                                         -          2.32       2.32
TOTAL                                    4.50       2.32      6.82
Estimated Disbursements        -------------Bank Fiscal Years-----------
(US.$ million)
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Annual                                 1.0     1.5      1.5     0.5
Cumulative                            1.0      2.5      4.0     4.5



INTEANATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR A
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$4.5 million, including a
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a public administration reform
project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, repayable on a fixec.
amortization schedule, including 4 years grace, with interest at the
standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.         An Economic Report entitled "Recent Developments and Economic
Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1984.,
Annex I contains the basic country data.
A. The Jamaican Economy to 1980
3.         The economy of Jamaica was affected by severe disturbances during
the 1970s. The first years of the decade repeated the brisk growth perfor-
mance of the 1960s, but the trend was abruptly reversed as a result of
external shocks and the impact of domestic policies. As a result, in 1980
total GDP stood 18% below the 1973 peak, and every year between had seen
negative real growth in per capita income. Manufacturing declined by 31%,
and construction by 58%. The share of investment expenditures declined
from 22% of GDP in 1974-75 to 12-15% of GDP in 1977-80, while consumption
expenditures increased proportionately, reflecting the private sector's
declining confidence and a rapid expansion of Government current
expenditures.
4.         As a result of Government's expansionary policies for the public
sector, fiscal performance was weak over the period. The Central Govern-
ment current account, which had registered a surplus of 6% of GDP in
1974/75, showed a deficit of 4% of GDP in 1979/80, a downward trend which
was reflected in increased overall deficits. Reflecting this, and declin-
ing production for export, particularly in bauxite/alumina manufacturing,
sugar and bananas, the balance of payments was under continuous pressure.
The current account deficit on the balance of payments reached a high of
11% of GDP in 1976, but declined after the devaluations of 1978 and 1979.
Lack of confidence had by this time caused considerable capital flight, so
the deficits resulted in increasing levels of public debt, which rose from
17% of GDP in 1973 to 46% of GDP in 1980, and in declining net interna-
tional reserves, which fell from US$37 million in 1973 to US$-518 mi:Llion
in 1980, with gross reserves down to four weeks' imports.
1/ This section is substantially the same as in the President's Report for
the Export Crop Project to be presented to the Board on May 15.



-2-
B. Development Strategy
5.         The Government which came to power in October 1980 was therefore
faced with considerable economic problems, as noted above, but was committ-
ed to a reform of past economic policies, and t:o the institution of changes
designed to reverse the economic decline of the 1970s. It saw the private
sector as the main engine of economic growth, and consequently sought a
reduction in the role of the public sector, through deregulation and
divestment of government-owned assets, such as hotels and sugar factories.
The development of exports, particularly outside CARICOM, was considered
the main impetus for economic recovery. The Government also sought to
improve the overall investment climate, in particular so as to attract
foreign private investment in sectors with potential for exports.
6.         The new Government quickly established relations with the IMF and
in March 1981 reached agreement on a three-year Extended Facility
Arrangement and Compensatory Financing Facility drawing, which would
together provide SDR 536 million over the three-year period. The
Government also requested a structural adjustment loan from the World Bank,
and a first such loan, for US$76.2 million, was approved in March 1982.
The SAL included conditions in balance of payments management, industry,
agriculture, and savings and investment, both public and private. A second
SAL was approved in June 1983, covering the same policy areas, but with the
addition of action programs in the field of pablic administration.
7.         One of the binding constraints on the economy during the 1970s--
and, of course, for the incoming Government--had been the balance of pay-
ments, and the shortage of foreign exchange. The Government had various
policies to address this problem, and indeed, the program in this area is
still evolving. One aspect was to attract a hiigh level of official assist-
ance from bilateral and multilateral sources during the first few years of
the economic recovery program, to finance an iincreased volume of imports,
particularly of raw materials, spare parts and capital goods, in order to
increase levels of output, and provide the means to expand exports.
Secondly, the Government was committed to a gradual replacement of the
constrictive administrative controls over the level of imports and the
allocation of foreign exchange by a system controlled primarily by market
forces.
8.         An immediate devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, which is tied to
the US dollar, was ruled out as a policy option by the new Government, both
because it believed that Jamaican exports had become competitive after the
1978/79 devaluations, and also because it feared that further devaluation
would merely fuel the fires of inflation through wage demands. Rather, the
need for a devaluation would be avoided through an attack on inflation and
restraint on wages, with the public sector acting as an "example" to
others.
9.         The first step in introducing a more market-oriented system was
to decriminalize the informal foreign exchange market, and to issue import
licenses to be funded through purchases on this market (so-called



-- 3 -
"no-funds" licenses) on a liberal basis. The second step took place early
in 1983.  It consisted of the full legalization of the parallel market,
formalization of its operations l:hrough institutionalization within the!
commercial banking system, and a simplification of the import licensing
arrangements. This process was taken a stage further in November 1983.,
The two-tier system was abandoned in favor of a unified exchange rate
system, with some built-in flexibility. The initial rate was set at J'3.15
= US$1.00, which represents a 77% devaluation of the official rate. The
system experienced some initial problems with respect to daily rate-fixing
and rules for adjusting the band from time to time. However, revised rules
for these two aspects were put in place on March 15, 1984, which introduced
a broad-based auction system for fixing rates. The Government is also
taking steps to rationalize the market further by segregating private
sector arrears from current demand and reducing such arrears in an orderly
way, as well as permitting the purchase of foreign exchange for the purpose
of opening new letters of credit. These steps are expected to introduce
more orderliness into the foreign exchange system, and bring about a
situation where the auctions are only required to meet demand for current
transactions. At the same time, the import licensing system has been
dismantled, and the only imports subject to continued administrative
control are items on the restricted list, and certain low priority consumer
goods. These remaining controls will be phased out gradually.
10.       The manufacturing sector--together with agriculture and
tourism--was viewed as having major potential for growth, and in particular
for an immediate expansion of exports.  It suffered from three major pro-
blems: (i) an orientation towards the domestic market and against exports,
because of the structure of incentives, (ii) low capacity utilization, as a
result of a shortage of foreign exchange; and (iii) outmoded,
inappropriate, and badly run-down working capital equipment, because of a
lack of investment during the 1970s, and the unavailability of foreign
exchange for spare parts. To reorient the sector, the Government is
attempting to redress the balance of incentives towards export markets, by
gradually eliminating the main means of protection, the quantitative
restrictions, by the gradual changes in the exchange rate, and by the
expansion and liberalization of the Export Development Fund, which provides
exporters with foreign exchange to acquire needed imports. Private
investment, particularly from overseas, is being actively encouraged,
through the general improvement in the investment climate, and through an
agressive investment promotion agency.
11.       The agricultural sector had been the one area of growth amongst
the productive sectors during the 1970s. However, this had primarily been
through an expansion of production for the domestic market, and export
agriculture had steadily declined. Government was committed to a revival
of export agriculture. Several programs were designed to achieve this
goal, including: (i) rehabilitation programs for sugar and bananas, and
the encouragement of private sector involvement in these crops; (ii) the
introduction of competition into the external marketing of other crops,
through a termination of the monopsony powers of the external marketing
organizations (EMOs), and a rationalization of the activities of the E40s;
(iii) improved incentives for nontraditional agricultural exports (i.e.,
excluding sugar and bananas); and (iv) the encouragement of private
investment, which has to date included major investments in coffee,
bananas, floriculture, and winter vegetables.



- 4 -
12.        Tourism was seen as ttie other sector capable of an immediate
expansion of export earnings, because occupancy levels had fallen to very
low levels, and capacity underutilization was widespread. An intensive
promotion campaign was mounted, and Jamaica succeeded in counteracting the
negative image of lawlessness and antagonism to foreigners that had been
created in the seventies and that: had seriously damaged the tourist trade.
Several Government-owned and operated hotels were leased to the private
sector, under terms where initial rents could be used for refurbishing. In
addition, the decriminalization and subsequent formalization of the
parallel market permitted an effective reduction in the price of tourism in
Jamaica, increasing its price competitiveness. The collective result of
this effort has been a rapid increase in tourist arrivals (25-30% a year)
at a time when tourism in the Caribbean has been falling by 7-10% a year.
13.        Less emphasis was placed on the role of the bauxite/alumina
sector as a source of growth, although the continued decline that this
sector has suffered in 1981 and 1982 was not expected or provided for in
the Government's scenario. Rather, it had been expected to continue at a
similar or slightly higher level of output. The Government agreed to
discuss changes in the production levy in relation to new investments by
the companies, but no major changes have yet been introduced. In recent
months, the Government has been very active in attempting to negotiate
bauxite/alumina barter deals, in order to attempt to maintain the level of
output, or prevent it from falling even farther, and some success has been
achieved.
14.        Finally, the Government has been trying to overcome another major
constraint to growth--the shortage of skilled and managerial manpower.
There was a major exodus of such persons during the 1970s, and attempts
have been made to attract them back to Jamaica, in addition to ongoing
efforts to upgrade skill levels of the work force, and in particular those
of new entrants to the work force. Some success has been achieved in
attracting people back, but the shortage remains an important constraint to
development.
C. Recent Economic Performance
15.        In contrast to the sharp decline of the 1973-80 period, the
Jamaican economy grew in 1981 'by 3.3%. Construction and non-government
services were the leading growth sectors, but most productive sectors
responded positively to the improvement in the business climate and the
greater availability of foreign exchange. Unemployment and inflation both
decreased, the former modestly, but the latter dramatically, falling from
28% in 1980 to only 4.7% in 1981. The fiscal situation also improved, in
particular as a result of improved tax collection, and the current and
overall deficits improved by about 4% of GDP with the financing of these
deficits coming largely from external official sources. However, the
current account deficit on the balance of payments increased sharply to
12.8% of GDP in 1981, although this had been largely anticipated. It had
been expected that this higher deficit would be covered by increased flows



of official assistance. This occurred for the fiscal year 1981/82, where a
balance of payments surplus of US$43 million was achieved, but a large
proportion of the increased flows came in the last quarter, and on a
calendar year basis, there was a further decline in reserves by US$81
million.
16.       In 1982, the Jamaican economy was severely affected by the
international recession. In particular, output of bauxite/alumina declined
by 26%, equivalent to 2.7% of GDP; consequently, overall GDP growth was
only 0.2%. The severity of the decline in bauxite/alumina in 1982 reflects
the decision by the companies to maintain output in 1981, in the hope of a
recovery in 1982, which resulted in large stocks, and also the presence in
Jamaica of those aluminum companies most affected by the recession. If the
bauxite/alumina sector is excluded, real growth was 3.4%, with particu:Larly
strong performance again in construction, non-government services, and
manufacturing. However, there was also a decline in agriculture,
reflecting stagnation in sugar production and slower than expected recovery
of bananas, and the depressive effect on output of other crops of the
greater availability of foreign exchange to finance food imports.
Preliminary figures indicate that economic growth of about 1.5% was
achieved in 1983, because of a recovery in the agricultural sector, and
continued expansion in the services sector.
17.       The decline in bauxite/alumina also affected the public
finances. The loss of revenue from the bauxite production levy amounted to
J$109 million (1.9% of GDP). In addition, expected Bark of Jamaica profits
(0.7% of GDP) failed to materialize. Despite a further 23% increase *n tax
revenue, the Central Government current deficit worsened from 2.6% of GDP
to 4.0% of GDP and consequently the overall deficit increased to 15.7% of
GDP from 14.2% the previous year, with two-thirds of the financing required
coming from external sources. A similar pattern is emerging for FY83/84,
although the current account deficit is expected to worsen to over 6% of
GDP with the overall deficit held to a similar level to FY82/83 through
compressed capital expenditure.
18.       With the decline in bauxite/alumina, total merchandise exports
are estimated to have declined by 23% in nominal terms and merchandise
imports by 6% in 1982. Non-bauxite exports rose by about 13%, and with
tourism earnings rising by a further 15%, and transfers by 28%, the current
account deficit on the balance of payments improved to an estimated 11.9%
of GDP. On a calendar year basis, this resulted in an overall surplus of
US$88.2 million, but for FY1982183, the net international reserves position
declined by close to US$150 million, causing difficulties with the nelt
foreign assets target of the EF]F. Although a waiver in this respect was
granted by the IMF, the balance of payments situation did not improve
sufficiently in 1983 to permit the revised EFF program targets to be met.
Exports and imports were at similar levels to 1982, but with rising
interest payments and with private capital outflows, the balance of
payments recorded a large overall deficit in 1983. Consequently, the EFF
program was abandoned, and is to be replaced by a new Stand-By arrangement
with the IMF which is expected to be considered by the IMF Executive
Directors by the end of May 1984 to cover the Jamaican fiscal year April 1,
1984 to March 31, 1985. Ihe high level of official capital inflow of the
last three years has increased substantially the level of public debt and
debt servicing, which rose to the equivalent of about 26% of exports of
goods and services in 1983.



6
D. Economic Prospects
19.       The economic recovery program has begun to reverse the negative
trends of the economy, and this process is expected to continue. GDP
growth is projected to average 3% over the next few years, on the as-
sumption that there is a recovery in the economies of the OECD countries.
This is a critical assumption, particularly with respect to bauxite/
alumina, tourism and manufactured exports. Even with this rate of growth,
GDP per capita in 1986 would still be 12% below the 1972 peak. Moreover,
most of the recovery would be concentrated on raising domestically
financed investment levels rather than consumption, which is projected to
grow very modestly, with national savings rising from 8.4% of GDP in 1982
to about 20% of GDP towards the end of the dezade, particularly through
expected improvements in public savings.
20.       As a consequence of the export-oriented strategy adopted by the
Government, with the recovery in the OECD countries, exports of goods and
services are projected to grow by about 7% a year, largely reflecting
recovery from present depressed levels. Bauxite/alumina exports would re-
cover their 1981 level by 1988, and sugar and banana exports are projected
to increase as a result of rehabilitation programs to the point where they
can satisfy, from domestic production, the protected EEC and US markets.
With imports projected to grow less rapidly, the current account of the
balance of payments is expected to improve gradually from the present level
of -11.9% of GDP, to a level of about 4.5% of GDP towards the end of the
1980s.
21.       Net external capital flows would therefore gradually fall over
the period, but would need to average about US$200 million a year. With
high levels of amortization payments, this would mean that gross inflows
would have to average over US$400 million per annum; private flows are
expected to increase gradually, and to supply about one quarter of the
required inflow over the period. Debt service levels will remain high, and
are projected to be at a level of about 15% of exports of goods and
services throughout the 1980s. This is considered manageable; provided
that Jamaica continues to pursue successfully its present stabilization and
economic recovery program, it should be considered creditworthy for limited
external borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
22.       The Bank had approved 35 loans in Jamaica totalling US$598.2
million after cancellations as of March 31, 1984. Of this amount, $178.9
million (30%) has been for infrastructure investments in transportation,
electric power, water supply and sewerage; US$172.4 million (29%) for
structural adjustment, program lending and related technical assistance;
US$98.6 million (16%) for a revolving fund for financing of inputs for
export industries; and the remainder has been for agriculture and
agroindustry (7%), education (5%), sites and services (3%), forestry (2%),
population and nutrition (2%), industrial development (6%), and petroleum
exploration (1%). As of March 31, 1984, Jamaica's debt to the Bank stood
at $536.5 million, or 21% of external debt outstanding and disbursed; debt
service to the Bank during FY83 amounted to US$36.4 million, or 12% of



- 7 -
total debt service. These shares are not expected to change substantially
in the next five years. The undisbursed amount of Bank loans as of March
31, 1984 amounted to US$165.2 million. There have been four IFC
investments in Jamaica, the most recent being a loan in 1981 to a flour
mill company.
23.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized
infrastructure investment. Although financing for this purpose continued,
the emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to
the social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition,
housing and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In
response to the changing economic situation, a further shift in Bank
lending took place in the late '70s which gave priority to financing to
help relieve the country's pressing balance of payments problems and
improve Jamaica's export performance. Thus, in FY78 the Bank lending
program contained a US$30 million program loan and an US$18 million loan
for the rehabilitation of factories for Jamaica's export oriented sujgar
industry. A US$31.5 million loan in FY79 was also directed at providing
needed balance of payments support, with most of the proceeds allocated to
the financing of the import needs of export industries through the
establishment of a revolving Export Development Fund; additional loans to
augment its resources were made in FY81 (US$37 million) and FY83 (US$30.5
million). Bank lending to Jamaica has recognized that resolution of the
country's balance of payments difficulties will require making adjustments
to the economy over a period of time. The Government embarked on a
structural adjustment program in 1981; the Bank has supported this program
with two structural adjustment loans in FY82 (US$76.2 million) and FY83
(US$60.2 million). The technical assistance requirements of the structural
adjustment program were met through a US$6.1 million technical assistance
loan made in FY82. Additional support for the Government's export program
was provided by a US$13,5 million loan in FY82 for the expansion of a free
zone project in Kingston.
24.       Although basic physical infrastructure in Jamaica is to a large
extent in place, much of that infrastructure is badly in need of mainte-
nance and rehabilitation. In response, the Bank provided loans for highway
maintenance and rehabilitation in FY79 (US$16 million) and FY83 (US$15
million), as well as a US$30.5 million loan for a similar purpose iEor the
electric power system in FY82. A loan to support the Government's efforts
to privatize the urban transport system was approved in FY84. Loans to
support the expansion of export agriculture (US$15 million) and to
strengthen the National Water Commission (US$9 million) have also been
submitted for Board approval in May 1984.
25.       Future Bank lending is likely to be directed mainly at tihe
following areas: a) continued support for the structural adjustment
program; b) projects in support of export development; and c) projects
aimed at conserving existing investment. In later years of the program,
when the country is better able to deal with its short and medium term
balance of payments situation, the Bank lending strategy contemplates
greater emphasis on more socially oriented projects.



- 8 -
26.       Several project loans in Jamaica have encountered delays in
execution in recent years. These delays have occurred for a variety of
reasons. Foreign exchange and fiscal constraints have affected progress of
some projects in the past. In the case of the third power and the highway
maintenance loans, difficulties in meeting conditions of effectiveness
relating to tariff actions in the first case and staffing in the second
caused initial delays; both projects are now on stream and progressing
relatively well. International recession affected demand for factory space
to be constructed under the Kingston Free Zone Project; demand has now
accelerated and 20 factories are under construction. Weaknesses in
management of the infant National Development Bank (NDB) have contributed
to a slow start for the Industrial Credit Project; a pipeline of
subprojects has now been developed, and several subloans have been
approved. The prevailing insufficiency of foreign exchange has also
delayed the effectiveness of the EDF III loan; it is expected that this
problem will be resolved shortly, in the framework of the reforms to the
foreign exchange market that were introduced oTI March 20, 1984. The single
most serious obstacle to timely project execution remains the lack of
skilled personnel in the public sector; current: Bank lending attempts to
address this problem in part through the provision of substantial levels of
technical assistance and an even greater focus on institution-building than
in the past. In addition, the proposed project would attempt to mitigate
this problem by helping the Government develop a civil service environment
which can better mobilize and more effectively utilize scarce human
resources.
PART III - INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK AND SETTING
Background
27.       The proposed Public Administration Retform Project emerged from,
and furthers the implementation of, Jamaica's structural adjustment
program. The Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to Jamaica was
approved in March 1982. It concentrated on four major action areas--
balance of payments management, savings and investment, agricultural sector
policies, and industrial sector policies. The Government of Jamaica (GOJ)
met the necessary conditions for the release of the 2nd tranche of SAL I
(No. 2105-JM) in November 1982.
28.       Although performance under SAL I was satisfactory, it became
evident to the Government and the Bank that the administrative environment
was seriously inhibiting a swift, effective structural adjustment. The
Government is the single largest employer in Jamaica and is actively
involved in most economic activities, from policy-making to production of
basic commodities. During the 1970's, the size and role of the public
sector expanded rapidly, and by 1982, it comprised over 48 ministries and
departments, some 230 statutory bodies, over 200 public enterprises, and
hundreds of boards, agencies and other entities, many of which exist only
on paper. In 1982, the public sector as a whole employed over 180,000
people, or about 17% of the labor force, compared to about 80,000 people,



- 9-
or about 10% of the labor force a decade earlier.  The 400 plus statutory
bodies/public enterprises accounted for 40% of total government employment
in 1982 compared to under 15% a decade earlier. The increasing role of the
public sector in the 1970's reflected a government policy directed at
promoting the role of the state in the economy, creating employment in the
environment of a deteriorating macroeconomic situation, reducing inequities
in income distribution and expanding social and economic services in the
society as a whole. Public sector institutions, however, were unable to
keep pace with their increasingly varied and frequently contradictory
responsibilities, with the consequence that increasing demands were being
placed on public institutions which were not adequately equipped to meet
them.
29.       Several major trends contributed to a severe weakening of the
civil service during the last decade. Compensation for managerial,
professional and technical (MPT) civil servants was severely eroded.
During 1972-82, the consumer price index (CPI) increased about 470%; over
the same period salaries for the three highest professional grades in the
civil service rose between 41% and 87%, while salaries for
Government-employed casual labor increased some 359%. This trend reflected
an incomes policy designed to reduce inequities in income distribution., but
had the effect of contributing to the exodus of experienced professionals
from the civil service or from Jamaica itself. The drastic decline in. real
compensation for civil service MPT staff, aggravated by the absolute
shortage of skilled human resources within the economy, resulted in
persistently high vacancy levels in key posts in Government ministries. As
the civil service deteriorated, the number of GOJ statutory bodies and,
public enterprises continued to grow. Most of these bodies and enterprises
enjoyed considerable autonomy either de jure, or de facto given weak parent
ministries. As such, they have been able to raise staff salaries even
while incurring financial losses which served not only to weaken Government
finances but also to drain trained people from traditional ministries.
30.       In preparing the second structural adjustment loan (#2315-JM),
the GOJ and the Bank conducted an in-depth review of GOJ's administrative
performance. The problems encountered in implementing SAL I and also in
implementing regular development projects were identified; discussions were
held with numerous Jamaican officials--Government, private sector and
academic; and numerous GOJ and consultant reports were reviewed. Thesle
reviews and discussions indicated that Jamaica's administrative structure
and behavior is, indeed, inadequate for the structural adjustment and
economic development challenges the country faces.
PROBLEMS FACED BY LINE AGENCIES
31.       A high level of performance is particularly needed on the part of
line agencies (those agencies with responsibility for executing Government
policy and programs such as the Ministries of Agriculture, Industry and
Construction) if the structural adjustment program is to be implemented
adequately. However, such agencies face severe problems in achieving their
objectives.



- 10 -
32.       First, line agencies suffer from high vacancy rates at the MPT
staff levels. One important line agency reported a 57% vacancy rate among
MPT authorized posts at the end of 1982. Many positions in line agencies
are filled with people who are not fully qualified. At the lower staffing
levels, staff are in surplus, lacking work to (lo, money to do it with and
direction and supervision to get it done.
33.       A second problem stems from the fact that while MPT staff overall
are in very short supply, line management's ability to utilize what staff
they have is hampered by a highly centralizecd personnel system. The core
personnel agencies (Ministry of Public Service (MPS) and Public Service
Commission (PSC)) are also understaffed at the MPT level. As these
agencies make virtually all formal personnel decisions, including
appointment, promotion, job classification, discipline, and granting
certain types of leave, their understaffing poses a critical constraint to
the operations of the civil service as a whoLe.
34.       Perhaps a major cause of MPT staff shortages is the GOJ practice
of creating statutory bodies and public enterprises, neither of which are
subject to civil service salary and other constraints. From one
perspective, the continued creation of new statutory bodies/public
enterprises can be considered a practical response to an administrative
structure under great stress. But at the same time, this practice
exacerbates line agency staffing problems because qualified line staff
leave to take higher paying jobs in the statatory bodies and public
enterprises. Under such circumstances, the least important statutory body
or public enterprise can entice staff from the most important ministry.
Moreover, there is no central register of people employed throughout the
Government, as the Public Service Commission deals only with regular civil
servants. No mechanism exists to identify qualified people, wherever they
may be within Government, and channel them to vital posts. Even if it did,
the compensation differences between civil service posts and those in the
Statutory Bodies/Public Enterprises are so great as to prevent a reverse
flow of staff.
35.       Line agencies also suffer from inadequate and poorly managed
financial practices. Decision-making is highly centralized in the
financial management area. Budget implementation and control systems have
deteriorated to the point where monthly exercises are held to decide which
bills to pay with whatever cash is on hand. In this environment, where
control over obligations and commitments has been all but lost, line
management's ability to plan a program of work and implement it in an
orderly manner and with reasonable degrees of certainty has become
virtually non-existent. Moreover, line agencies not only lack staff to
carry out financial management tasks, but also the authority to pay
financial staff on par with other professional staff. The lack of
financial management capability throughout Government is clearly evident in
the Jamaican Auditor General's reports. In December 1982, he reported the
inability to complete the audit of all but one of the Government's 85
accounts because the books were still not ready for audit eight months
after the end of the fiscal year. A large number of prior year accounts
also remained uncertified for the same reason.



- 11 -
PROBLEMS FACED BY THE CORE AGENCIES
36.       Investigations into the causes of the problems being faced by the
line agencies, led to a focus on the Government's three core agencies--the
Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOF), MPS2/ and the PSC2/, as these
agencies are responsible for developing and operating the policies,
procedures and systems for the acquisition and deployment of financial and
human resources throughout the Government. The problems faced by the core
agencies were similar to those of the line agencies.  Many MPT level posts
in the core agencies are vacant, (47% in MOF and comparable levels in MPS
and PSC) and many are filled with marginally qualified staff. As a result,
a handful of able people must spend most of their time handling crises
thrown up by a turbulent economic environment, severe foreign exchange
shortages and deteriorating operating procedures and systems.
Ineffective Budget Procedures
37.       Jamaica's line-item budget system, even if perfectly run, would
be an inadequate means of ensuring that scarce financial resources are
directed toward priority objectives, and an even less adequate tool to help
the Government make essential reductions in expenditures in a reasonably
effective manner. Although a "Program Budget" format has been the long
declared objective of the GOJ, the actual format of the budget emphasizes
the object of expenditure (salaries, equipment, supplies, contracts, etc.)
by head or subhead, with heads corresponding to ministries and certain
government agencies and subheads to the object of expenditure. The
detailed budget estimates exclude any statement of objectives, nor is there
a presentation by category of activity or program category, the items
normally associated with a program budget. While program memoranda and
multi-year financial plans are prepared for capital projects (see para.
45), the published estimates do not contain this information, nor is the
relationship between capital expenditures, the foreign exchange budget and
recurrent budgets explicit as in a consolidated program budget.
38.       The request for budget submissions (budget call) is issued four
to five months in advance of the fiscal year with only four weeks allowed
2/ MPS and the PSC have had, interrelated and sometimes overlapping areas
of responsibility. Unlike the other agencies of the GOJ, the PSC
is under the jurisdiction of the Governor General rather than the Prime
Minister. The PSC is responsible for administering the personnel policies
and regulations of the GOJ, the establishment of which is the
responsibility of the Ministry of the Public Service. The PSC recruits,
tests, certifies, appoints, transfers, promotes, disciplines, and selects
as candidates for training, individual civil servants. Although the PSC
receives and listens to recommendations of the line ministries, it handles
virtually all actions on a case-by-case basis. MPS establishes Civil
Service salary and benefits scales, job classification standards, careetr
development policies, size of the civil service establishment, and similar
regulations for the service as a whole. It also engages in operational.
work such as job classification, pension administration, staff training,
civil service staff relations, office accommodation and housing for public
officers, and management services. As in the case of the PSC, much of its
operational work is done on a case-by-case basis. One objective of the
Administrative Reform Program would be better definition of the relative
roles of these two agencies.



-- 12 -
for the ministries to prepare draft submissions.  The budget call does not
produce all the information necessary for submission; personal emoluments
estimates are provided by the MPS, and new capital project guidelines from
the Standing Working Group on public investment. The budget call focuses
primarily on the mechanics of completing formats with financial data;
policy directives come from other sources. These inherent weaknesses of a
line item budget format are exacerbated by staff shortages in MOF which are
so severe that available staff in the Budget Division can barely handle the
mechanical tasks associated with assembling and presenting budget
documentation to the Parliament. Little time is available for budget
analysis, and no time can be spent on developing policies, procedures and
systems which would give Jamaica the kind of budget system it needs.
39.       Budget implementation is initiated by the issuance of warrants by
the Budget division. Requests for warrants are received monthly by
agencies, instead of at quarterly or semi-annual intervals. The need to
adjust fluctuating monthly revenue to proposed cash disbursements without
regard to inescapable commitments is a difficult task, unsupported by
existing information systems. Commitment or obligational control has been
seriously eroded. Such control is necessary to manage efficiently scarce
and fluctuating financial resources.
40.       Under such circumstances, the MOF cannot exercise adequate
control of the budget activities of other ministries, nor can it assure
itself that public funds are spent in accordance with the goals for which
they were voted. The concentration on cash management and on the object of
expenditure prevent MOF from monitoring and evaluating the impact of
programs and the relation of expenditures to the achievement of desired
goals.
Institutional Deterioration
41.       Other parts of the MOF face similar problems.  Until the recent
provision of consultant services under the Bank's Technical Assistance Loan
to Jamaica, the MOF lacked the capability to conduct analyses of the
financial condition and operational efficiency of those key public
enterprises which had been experiencing significant financial losses for
protracted periods of time. Progress is being made in this area, but there
is still a long way to go. MOF's responsibilities for, inter alia, public
debt management, consolidated fund management, the development,
implementation and enforcement of accounting and financial reporting
standards and revenue collection also suffer from inadequate systems and
severe staff shortages.
Excessive Centralization
42.       The same sorts of problems exist in the MPS and PSC.  For
example, retirees must wait for as long as two years or more to receive
their first pension checks, and heavy backlogs of line agency job
classification and promotion requests await attention. In addition to the
systems inadequacies and staffing shortages, the key problem is the
excessive centralization of authority for caLse-by-case decision making in
these two agencies. Moreover, the existence of two personnel agencies and
a history of duplication of effort and competition, rather than
cooperation, further exacerbate the weaknesses in this part of Jamaica's
administrative environment.



- 13 -
43.       In summary then, both core and line agencies of Government are so
inadequately staffed that virtually all available time is spent handling
crises and keeping up with the more routine, mechanical aspects of the
work. Moreover, that battle is generally being lost as backlogs grow,
policies get out of date and procedures and systems deteriorate for the
lack of maintenance. Little, if any, time is left to identify and correct
problems, let alone introduce innovations.
GOVERNMENT POLICY
44.       A major focus of the Government's structural adjustment program
has been the rationalization of the public sector's role in the economy.
In this context, initial emphasis was placed on four objectives. First,
the Government aimed at reducing the size of the public sector and
promoting the role of the private sector in the economy by divesting
through sales or lease those activities which could be managed by the
private sector. Such actions so far have included the lease of seven
hotels owned by National Hotels and Properties, Inc. to private operators;
the closure of the public bus company (Jamaica Omnibus Service) and the
establishment of a privately operated public transport system; the closare
of five government-owned sugar factories; and ongoing efforts to negotiate
the sale or lease of the three remaining Government-owned factories.
Second, the Government has attempted to rationalize the operations of key
public enterprises in order to reduce the drain on the budget and improve
the availability of key infrastructural services in the economy. In this
context, it has undertaken comprehensive management audits for a number of
companies (National Water Commission (NWC), Jamaica Public Service Company
(JPS), National Sugar Company (NSC), the Banana Company (BANCO), Air
Jamaica (AJ), and all the external marketing organizations (EMOs) in
agriculture. The recommendations of these audits have been adopted; in.
several cases, such as that of BANCO, a fundamental restructuring of a
company and an industry has occurred. Third, the Government has
strengthened the Public Enterprises Unit of MOF in order to improve its
ability to monitor and evaluate the financial performance of the major
parastatals. And, fourth, the Government established a Standing Working
Group on the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP). The activities of
this Group, and of related mechanisms established in the MOF and the
National Planning Agency, have made it possible to improve substantially
the preparation and monitoring of the PSIP. These ad hoc improvements,
however, fall short of what GOJ should be able to achieve in this respect
in the framework of more appropriLate budget procedures.
Starting Administrative Reform
45.       The initiatives mentioned above, and others, have been embedded
in the programs agreed to under the Bank's first and second SALs and
supported by studies and consultants financed under the associated
technical assistance loan. In preparing and finalizing the second SAL, a
consensus emerged between the GOJ and the Bank that an overall and
systematic program of administrative reform was called for and that the
starting point should be the core agencies and their policies, procedures
and systems. SAL II, therefore, included the completion of the following
three action programs as conditions for Board approval of second tranche
release:



- 14 -
-- Adoption of a program for the phased introduction of an
input-output oriented budget sysitem and the simultaneous
installation of a compatible financial management system;
--  Identification of the key problems in the three core
agencies--MOF, MPS, PSC--and development of programs to
strengthen and improve their per:Eormance, responsiveness and
effectiveness; and
-- Adoption a strategy to enable the GOJ to fill priority posts
in the Civil Service.
Compensation as a Key Problem
46.       In discussing the administrative reform actions, the GOJ and the
Bank agreed that the main problem associated with the filling of priority
posts in the civil service appeared to be largely one of inadequate
compensation for regular Civil Service MPT posts, relative to: (i)
compensation afforded equivalent posts in the statutory bodies/public
enterprises; (ii) compensation afforded lower level civil service posts;
and (iii) compensation required by qualified people willing to occupy MPT
posts in the civil service. It was also agreecl that expenditures on
systems development, management audits, staff training and the like would
be wasted if the compensation problem could not be solved. Since MPT posts
amount to only a small fraction of total civil service posts, adjustment in
MPT salary levels would have only a minor impact on the Government's fiscal
position.
47.       In spite of the political difficulties involved in adjusting
civil service salaries, since relative increases for the more highly paid
staff were required, the Government nevertheless committed itself to take
action on the salary issue, and indeed before SAL II was approved, the
Government decided upon pay raises for 1983 and 1984 which were selectively
skewed toward the MPT levels. For instance, starting compensation for
Permanent Secretaries (the top civil service post) was increased by about
50%, while salary increases for unskilled civil servants were in the range
of about 25% for the two year period.
48.       The Government of Jamaica also took prompt action on the other
administrative reform action programs included in the SAL. Consultants
were promptly hired (with funding provided by the Bank Technical Assistance
Loan) to work on the budget/financial managemernt system and the management
audits of the core agencies. By early November 1983, the work of the
consultants was completed, Government had made the necessary decisions and
had put appropriate implementation arrangements in place. The content of
the actions to be taken and the implementation arrangements reflected in
the Government's statement are consistent with the consultant's
recommendations, and fully meet SAL II second tranche release conditions.
Additionally, they form the basis for the "Administration Reform Program of
the Government of Jamaica" and the proposed Administrative Reform Project
in its support.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
49.       The proposed loan would be the first in the area of public
administration reform. As indicated above, however, the FY82 Technical



- 15 -
Assistance Loan financed the preparation, and in some instances, the
initial stages, of the programs to be supported by the proposed project as
well as improved mechanisms for the preparation and monitoring of the
PSIP.  It should be noted that most Bank loans executed in the last ten
years in Jamaica have been adversely affected by weaknesses in public
administration. In the past, these difficulties have been addressed by the
provision of substantial levels of technical assistance; the basic weakness
of the civil service and the inadequacy of the overall budgetary and
financial procedures, however, have made the process of institutional
strengthening and development a difficult and frustrating task. While the
proposed project would not alter the administrative environment
immediately, it is expected that it will provide the basis for substantial
improvement in the execution of all Bank projects and programs in the years
to come.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
50.       As indicated in the previous section, the proposed project
emerged from the successful completion of three administrative reform
action programs included in SAL II and supported by the technical
assistance loan. Project preparation was an integral part of the
implementation of the structural adjustment action programs. The project
was appraised in December 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington in
April 1984. The Jamaican delegation was led by Mr. Harold Milner,
Financial Secretary.
Project Objectives and Design
51.       The proposed project would finance the foreign exchange costs of
the Administrative Reform Program (ARP) of the Government of Jamaica. The
overall objective of the program is improved performance on the part of
line agencies, particularly those critical to the structural adjustment
process and to economic development in general. The end result of this
program will be line agencies structured and operating around the concept
of program management, i.e., activity centers within a line agency with the
authorities, and financial and human resources necessary to obtain the
specific objectives identified in the agency's program and budget. Manager
positions in line agencies will be reoriented along these lines; the staff
in these positions will be given authority and responsibility for the!
management of the human and financial resources required for the
achievement of their objectives and evaluated on the basis of those
objectives.
52.       Before a meaningful program management structure can be set: up in
the line agencies, the overall administrative environment must be changed
to permit and encourage program management. Therefore, the ARP
starts with the task of strengthening and modernizing the performance of
the three core ministries--MOF, MPS, PSC--and building the policies,
procedures, operating style, techniques and systems needed to create the
rational, stable and responsive administrative environment line agencies
need if they are to operate efficiently and effectively. After the process
of strengthening the core agencies is well underway, a pilot project will



- 16 -
be started in a selected line agency to put a program management structure
in place and otherwise build the capacity of the selected line agency to
operate in the new administrative environment. An appropriate agency for
this purpose would be selected by September 30, 1984 (Section 3.01(b))
draft Loan Agreement). This pilot project wouild provide the Government
with the methodology, model and institutional capacity to restructure the
remaining Jamaican line agencies. The objectives and design of the
proposed Bank loan are identical to that of the overall Administrative
Reform Program. The loan would finance consultants, equipment and training
to support the three major components of the Jamaican program: human
resource management, financial resource management, and line agency
restructuring. Supplementary salaries would not be financed from loan
funds. The proposed project has been discussed with UNDP and other
potential sources of technical assistance. These agencies at the present
time do not have funds available to support the ARP.
Human Resource Management Component (US$1.4 million)
53.       Compensation Improvements for Civil Service Professional,
Managerial, and Technical Positions. Over a 3-5 year period, compensation
for MPT positions in the Civil Service is to be raised to 85% of that paid
by statutory bodies and public enterprises. Adjustments would be made
selectively to favor scarce skill posts and high priority posts and such
posts would be filled solely on the basis of merit. Under the proposed
project, the existing salary structure would be analyzed and a detailed
program for the reduction of the compensation gap developed. In addition,
a consistent long-term compensation and position classification strategy
would be developed, which would, inter alia, provide for the upgrading of
the status and pay of professional positions in the fields of finance,
personnel and management analysis. To assist in these activities and to
strengthen MPS' institutional capacity to develop and manage an appropriate
Government-wide compensation program structure, the proposed project would
provide about 36 staff months of consultant services. (See Annex V, C-1.)
54.       Rationalization of Public Sector Oganizations.  The compensation
policies and practices of statutory bodies and public enterprises are being
brought under the authority of MPS. A detailed survey of the skilled
manpower requirements and salary structure of the statutory bodies and
public enterprises would be executed. Criteria for the creation of new
statutory bodies and the continuation of new ones would be developed, and
an implementation plan for the rationalization of public sector
organization adopted. The proposed project would provide about 6 staff
months of consultant services for this purpose. (See Annex V, C-2.)
55.       Modernization of Human Resource Management Primarily through the
Decentralization of Authority to Line Agency Management to take Key
Personnel Actions. The MPS and PSC will be converted to largely policy
making, appellate, regulatory and common-service-providing agencies of the
Government. Line agencies will be delegated authority to take key
personnel actions, activating "Management Councils" for this purpose. The
MPS and PSC will be restructured, their relative roles clarified and
defined, and capacity created to carry out their new roles. Personnel
staff in MPS, PSC and the line ministries would be trained in their new
functions. The existing staff orders and Public Service regulations would
be modernized. The proposed project would provide about 50 staff months of
consultant services for this purpose. (See Annex V, C-2.)



-- 17 -
56.       Development of Public Service Training and Consultancy Programs.
Adequate pay alone is insufficient to induce individuals to enter and s7tay
in the Civil Service. Beyond comapensation, meaningful work, an efficient
and effective work environment, training and other opportunities for self
and career development, and the recognition of reward and performance oust
become a way of life for the civil service. To accomplish this, the
quality and relevance of training provided to Government employees will be
increased and linked to career development paths. Further development of a
combined management training/management consulting capability provided to
line agencies on a cost-reimbursement basis will take place. The proposed
project would provide about 50 st-aff months of consultant services for this
purpose. (See Annex V, C-4.)
Financial Resource Management Component (US$2.9 million)
57.       Strengthening the Role of the Financial Secretary (FS).  The
Financial Secretary is the day-to-day operational manager of MOF. For a
variety of historical reasons the Financial Secretary's capacity to manage
the various parts of the MOF and to provide policy support to the Minister
of Finance has eroded. In order to rebuild the capacity of the FS to
discharge his responsibilities, the following actions are being taken:
-    Creation and staffing of an office of the Financial Secretary to
provide the FS with a policy analysis capability and the
capability to establish and operate a government-wide "Financial
Officer Corps".
-    Creation of a "Permanent Secretary" position reporting to the FS
to oversee the core functions of the MOF. This will permit the
FS to devote more time to planning and policy support instead of
crisis management.
-    Definition and clarification of the scope of the FS's authority
and responsibility, establishment of necessary policy
coordination mechanisms and rationalization of the organizational
structure of the HOF.
The proposed project would provide about 16 staff months of consultant:
services for these purposes, (See Annex V, B-1.)
58.       Restoration of the Institutional Capabilities of the MOF.  Given
the high MPT vacancy rate and the general lack of qualified staff,
capabilities formerly present in the MOF have withered or died. Moreover,
newly needed capabilities have not been added. Within a rationalized
organizational structure, action is being taken to build (or rebuild)
institutional capacity, fill authorized positions and equip and provide
adequate space and facilities for various functions of the MOF, such as
public enterprise control, financial administration, and budgeting. In
addition, special efforts are being undertaken to create or revise needed
policies, procedures and systems, through continuing improvement of the
management of the Consolidated 'Fund, completing the revision of the
Financial Administration and Audit Act, drafting a Public Enterprise Law,
establishing a Tax Policy Committee, and establishing a panel of MOF/MPS
appointed Directors on the Boards of public enterprises. The proposed
project would provide about 24 staff months of consultant services for
these purposes. (See Annex V, B-4.)



- 18 -
59.       Installation of a Performance Budgeting System.  The Government
intends, over a five-year period, to convert from its current line-item
budget system to an input-output oriented performance budget system. With
support from the FY82 Technical Assistance Loan, the architecture for this
system has been adopted and an assessment has been made of the
institutional capabilities that have to be developed in the MOF and the
line agencies to operate a performance budgeting system.  Careful attention
has also been paid to the institutional capabiLities needed to maintain
accounts, prepare budget and other financial reports, and otherwise carry
out financial management tasks in the MOF ancd the line agencies. At this
time, institutional capacity is limited throughout the Government.  The
installation program has, therefore, been phased to create the
institutional capabilities and modify accounting procedures and staffing
before, or along with, the installation of the new system over a five-year
period. The proposed project would provide about 60 staff months of
consultant services to support this program. (See Annex V, 13-2.)
60.       Upgrading the Status of Financial Officers.  The status and
professional capabilities of financial staff throughout the Government are
inadequate and in need of significant and rapid upgrading. To accomplish
this, a government-wide Financial Officer Corps is being established under
the sponsorship and functional control of the Financial Secretary. A study
will be conducted to determine the appropriate pay and status to be
provided to financial staff at various government-wide levels and
projections will be made of the numbers required and training needed to
provide Jamaica with these needed skills. The proposed project would
provide about 24 staff months of consultant services for these purposes.
In addition, a long-range financial management training program will be
undertaken with linkages to the University of West Indies (Kingston
Campus), the College of Arts, Science and Technology and the Financial and
Accounting College of Training. The training program has been reviewed by
the Bank and found to be satisfactory. (See Annex V, B-3.)
Line Agency Restructuring Component (US$0.2 million)
61.       This component is designed to restructure a selected line agency
into the Program Management format described above in paragraph 52.
Planning for this component is expected to begin in October 1984 and the
actual work is expected to start in April 1985. This component will serve
several interrelated purposes. It will apply the principles, policies and
concepts developed in the other components in an actual line agency. This
in turn will serve to integrate the Human Resources and Financial
Management efforts and the people working on them, and subject abstract
concepts to a practical test. This effort will also provide practical
experience, methodologies and a model for subsequently restructuring the
other line agencies. Personnel from the MOF and other parts of the
government involved in the ARP will participate in the effort. The project
would provide about 12 manmonths of technical assistance for this purpose.
(See Annex V, D.)
Project Management
62.       The Government of Jamaica has formed an Interministerial
Committee on Administrative Reform to oversee the ARP and two task forces
(the Committee for Public Service Reform and the Financial Management



- 19 -
Reform Task Force) to execute the Program. The Prime Minister (also
Minister of Finance and Planning) serves as chairman of the
Interministerial Committee; the Minister of Public Service as Vice
Chairman. Other members are: the Financial Secretary; the Permanent
Secretary, MPS; the Permanent Secretary, Prime Minister's Office; the
Executive Director, Financial Management Reform Task Force; and the
Executive Director, Committee for Public Service Reform. The Executive
Directors serve as a joint secretariat to the Committee, preparing the
agenda for its meetings.  The Executive Directors were appointed in
November and December 1983, and have suitable qualifications and
experience. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government
would continue to ensure that staff assigned to the management of the
project would have qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
63.       The Committee on Public Service Reform (CPSR) is responsible for
planning and implementing the Human Resources Management component and the
Line Agency Restructuring component of the Jamaican Administrative Reform
Program. The Committee is chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MPS. Other
members of the Committee include representatives from PSC, the Jamaican
Civil Service Association, the Financial Secretary, the Executive Director
of the Financial Resource Management Task Force (FRMTF), and the Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition to the full-time
Executive Director, the Committee is supported by a small staff.   The
financial management component is directed by the Financial Management
Reform Task Force under the chairmanship of the Financial Secretary. Dther
Committee members include representatives from Bank of Jamaica, the Revenue
Board, the Accountant General, Auditor General, the MPS, and the Executive
Director of the Committee for Public Service Reform. The Task Force is
also assisted by a full-time Executive Director with a small staff. Both
the CPSR and the FRMTF would be supported by a total of about 36 staff
months of consultant services to be financed by the proposed loan to assist
in project management and in the recruitment of other consultants.
Recruitment of a consultant for this purpose with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(d)). Provision to the
Bank of a detailed statement on selection and recruitment procedures to be
followed by the Borrower in the hiring of consultants would also be a
condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(c)).
64.       The role of the two Executive Directors is to plan, monitor and
coordinate work under their respective components and to channel issues and
problems to the overseeing body as necessary. In order to ensure close
T          coordination, the CPSR and the FRMTF have interlocking memberships; in
addition, the two Executive Directors share common office facilities and
support staff, and work closely together on a daily basis. The two
Executive Directors are project managers for their respective portions of
the Bank loan.
65.       The CPSR and the FRMTF have completed a draft master plan for the
ARP detailing its required manpower, specific tasks, and implementation
schedule. This plan was discussed and agreed at negotiations and is
reflected in the cost estimates (Annex IV) and the detailed objectives and
implementation schedule (Annex V). The project would be implemented over a



- 20 -
four-year period, although disbursements would be concentrated during the
first three years of execution. The closing date for the project would be
June 30, 1988.
66.        The functions, responsibilities and selection of individual
advisors and their terms and conditions of employment, as well as the terms
of reference and awards of contracts for studies, will be decided by the
Government, subject to the Bank's concurrence., The draft terms of
reference for consultants to be financed under the loan were agreed at
negotiations. All consultants would be recruited in conformity with the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers of August
1981 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02a).  Procurement of goods would be
in conformity with local procurement procedures requiring competitive
shopping and quotations from at least three suppliers (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 2.03).
Project Costs and Financing
67.        The total cost of the project (including a capitalized front-end
fee) is estimated at US$6.8 million, with an estimated foreign exchange
component of US$4.5 million (See Annex IV). The proposed loan would
finance the entire estimated foreign exchange cost of the project,
including the front-end fee.  Retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 is
recommended to meet costs incurred after December 15, 1983 in order to
accelerate project implementation (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Loan
Agreement). A detailed summary of project costs is presented in Annex IV.
The cost of externally recruited consultants has been estimated based on
comparable consultant costs in Jamaica as of ALpril 1984. No physical
contingencies have been calculated. Price contingencies have been derived
from the following projections for international inflation based on US$
costs: 3.5% in 1984; 8.0% in 1985; and 9% during 1986-88.
Disbursement
68.       Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) 100% of expenditures for consultants, studies, and training
(US$3.5 million equivalent);
(b) 100% of expenditures for equipment (US$0.1 million equivalent);
(c) Front-end fee (US$0.01 million);
(d)  Initial deposit into Special Account (US$0.25 million); and
(e) Unallocated (US$0.64 million).
Disbursements would be against standard documentation for all items except
those under US$20,000 equivalent for which disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditures certified by MOF.



- 21 -
Special and Project Accounts
69.       In order to reduce the interval between the time payments would
be made by the Borrower and receipt of reimbursement from the Bank, a
Special Account would be established in the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ) from an
advance of loan proceeds., At the same time, the Government would establish
and fund a Project Account. The establishment of these accounts ancl the
funding of the Project account would be conditions of loan effectiveness
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.01). The Special Account would be denominated
in US dollars and would be established with an initial deposit of US$0.25
9             million, approximately equivalent to average projected quarterly
disbursements. The Project Account would consist of an advance equivalent
to estimated total expenditure on the project for the corresponding period
(US$0.3 million); the Government would promptly replenish the Project
Account when it fell below that level (Draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.06). These amounts would be used by the CPSR and the FRMTF for project
expenditures. The Government would request replenishment of the Special
Account by the Bank through standard disbursement procedures. Conversion
from US dollars to Jamaican dollars would be made at the official exchange
rate prevailing on the date the payment was made, if the payment took place
no more than 60 days before the withdrawal request.  Otherwise, the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of the withdrawal would be used (Draft
Loan Agreement, Schedule 5).
Accounts and Audit
70.       MOF would establish and maintain consolidated project accounts
for all expenditures financed under this loan in a clearly identifiable
manner (Section 4.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Special and
Project Accounts, as well as other accounts and supporting records
pertaining to the services and goods financed under the loan, would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the
audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within seven months (Section
4.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
71.       The benefits which would result from a successful implementation
of this project are many and far reaching. Put simply, the project would
help equip the Government to adjust the economy to changing conditions, to
manage its available human and financial resources effectively, and to
become a facilitator of economic development.
72.       Several risks could affect the successful completion of this
project. Most important, the present strong commitment at the political
and technocratic level must be sustained. There is no doubt about tlhe
Government's interest in the success of the project, which is expected to
benefit the technical and professional cadres on whose cooperation it
depends. Beyond the commitment of those involved, their ability and desire
to work cooperatively is essential. To date cooperation among the various
Jamaican participants has been good. Mechanisms to deal with possible
conflicts and to promote cooperation have been incorporated in the proposed
project (see para. 64).



- 22 -
73.       A further risk lies in the absolute shortage of trained MPT
personnel in Jamaica.  Substantial amounts of training built into the
project will mitigate but not solve this overall societal problem.
Additionally, the various actions being taketn to improve civil service
working conditions will help improve the Government's competitiveness;
other changes will permit the Government to channel available personnel to
priority posts and generally better utilize its staff.  Nevertheless,
shortages of qualified MPT staff may persist and extend the time it takes
to attain the full benefits of the Jamaican Administrative Reform Program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS; AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately along with the Report of
the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank. Establishment of the Special Account,
establishment and initial funding of the Project Account, recruitment of a
consultant with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank to
assist in project management, and provision of a detailed statement to the
Bank on selection and recruitment procedures to be followed by the Borrower
in the hiring of consultants would be condii:ions of loan effectiveness.
Other special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the BaLnk.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 3, 1984



Annex I
- 23 -                                                      Page. 1 of 6
TA BHL E 3A
JAMAICA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b   b  RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INC(IME
196O/b   /b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bC
1960.-b   1970   ESTIMATE-       LAT. AMERICA & CARIB             EUROPE
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                 11.0         11.0        11.0
AGRICITLTURAL                          4.9          4.9         4.7
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    410.0        710.0      1180.0              2088.2                    2453.6
ENERGY CONSUKIPIrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       654.0      1405.0       1440.0              1407.6                    1580.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    1629.0        1877.0      2194.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)         33.7         37.2        41.9                65.9                      47.8
FOPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                3.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2065
POPLLATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Ilf.                       148.2        170.8       197.6                35.6                      82.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             332.4       387.0        462.1                93.2                     157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                           41.7         47.0        40.1                40.1                      31.9
15-64 YRS                           54.0        47.5         53.9                55.8                      60.9
65 AND ABOVE                         4.3          5.6         6.0                 4.1                       7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                1.5/c        1.4/c       1.4/c               2.3                       1.6
URBAN                                2.5          2.4         2.5                 3.7                       3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TiOUS)          39.4         35.3        28.9                31.5                      25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           9.4          7.6         6.3                 8.1                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTTON RATE                2.6          2.6         1.8                 2.0                       1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (T/iOUS)            ..         19.3        27.0/d
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                         98.0         99.0        87.0               113.0                     108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)        94.0        111.0       119.0               111.3                     129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            58.0        67.0         64.0                67.9                      92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.0        33.0         34.0/e              34.1                      34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            3.1          1.2         0.3                 5.3                      10.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         64.2         68.6        71.2                64.6                      67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         51.5         32.2        16.2                62.6                      71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               20.9/h       62.0        86.0/d              64.8
URBAN                               64.67w      100.0       100.o07              77.8
RURAL                                5.77h       48.0        79.o7-              44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 . .        94.0        94.0/d              54.6
URBAN                                 ..        100.0       l0o.o7               69.8
RURAL                                 ..         92.0        91.0/d              29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2590.0      2640.0       2830.0              1776.0                    1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              420.0/k    1730.0        630.0              1012.2                     762.'
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              240.0        240.0       260.0/f             477.0                     334.0
URBAN                              Z00.O/g     220.0           ..               667.5                     216.')
RURAL                                 ..           ..          ..              1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         17.0        19.0/f              27.2                      20.1'
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                3.9          4.3
URBAN                                2.7           ..          ..
RLRAL                                4.8           ..           ..                 .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                1.9          1.6          ..
URBAN                                1.6           ..
RURAL                                2.0           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..          ..
--  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - -



- 24 -                                             Annex I
Page 2 of 6
T A B L E 3A
JAMAICA                  - SOCIAL, INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                                 REFERENCE CROUPS (WEICUTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /t
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE rENCOE
_960_b     1970'   ESTIMATLJb       LAT. AMERICA & CARIB             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     92.0        119.0         99.0               105.0                      102.2
MALE                     92.0        119.0         98.0               106.3                      107.2
FEMALE                   93.0        119.0        100.0               103.6                       97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     45.0        46.0         57.0                 40.0                      56.5
MALE                     44.0         46.0         54.0                38.6                       63.4
FEMALE                   46.0         45.0         60.0                41.2                      48.9
VOCATIONAL (O OF SECONDARY)             9.0          5.5         2.3/i               34.0                      22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              56.0         47.0        41.0                 30.7                      24.7
SECONDARY                            21.0         26.0        22.0/i               16.7                      22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                81.9         95.4         90.0                79.5                      69.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            20.3         38.5           ..                45.6                      52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           90.2        266.4       331.0                228.2                     165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               7.0         37.3         76.9               108.3                     124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               62.0        113.6         59.6                64.1                      96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          ..           ..         0.2/f                2.9                       2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             607.0        634.0       809.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     37.2        38.8         39.9                24.8                       34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                39.0         29.5        21.4                 31.3                      40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   24.9        25.6         25.2                23.9                       23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                37.3         33.8        36.9                 31.3                      42.0
MALE                                 48.7         42.4        45.2                 49.8                      55.2
FEMALE                               26.7        25.6         28.9                 14.8                      29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.6         t.2                  1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             30.2/j         ..
HICHEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS            61.2           ...
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              2.2*-                          ..                 ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOU)SEHOLDS             8.2           ....
POVERTY TARGET GROCPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        501.0/e             289.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       439.07;e             184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .            ..       585.0/e              519.8
RURA.                                  ..           ..       509.o07e            372.1                      409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLtTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (1)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..        80.0/e
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetlc means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
[971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c Due to migration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1975; /e 1977; /f 1974; /g 1962;
/h Percentage of housing units with piped water; /i 1976; /j 1958; /k 1963.
May 1983



-25-                                                                                 Annex I
Page 3 of 6
lErINITIOtnS OF SOCIkA. lINDICATORS
anbzientcountr  (                HcJn9or ha lnc-`n  nI Etporter" groupir mddleIcoeurt  Ofrica nod niddle U.an" Is chetbcue  tsrne-scocio
AREA (Ihtbo...d aqs)                                                                                    roooin  e   bacin              rplat-o  diided  by n--ro  patoo
1901 sod 1981l data                             P  l  I.  .,        -.'IY .                  rrlto   c    ue itd-ttl  ora,an   oo  --b Sooanni                             itl
GNP PEt COITA (dill   G pn pnr capitacn  oc   rcrecnrtpiee                                                  rtal   oyli   n    rnt  gnrladsetodhsia   a
aiculsred  bp o oa-  cooerlo  ted  as -ord MacI Alr.s I1979-81 ha-lal;                                  reat Ia  oncoer.isptl   ar  e                            lai-baoa  h.perannly r1 a
ENERGY CCKlNldtfONt PtR IIOITA   M- Mno ip"rr-  cisoto    fcscatt                                           ei       Antcr     d nu  prnea-  Op hsaffd  h  rP-yidiot plie  bpy seil
yrureeg   (olodriit  ,ptrlue    otr--a adiyo-,  ula                                                     sirn    nre,sdie   rt.  attnj. otter  in-Mnten   hrcocdatotan
lqit,  9cC, td  i9tidint.                                                                   rbaniosyteaahinclde Inifprinipli genra  topias  adruo
Total 19oltic,0       t-qa  (tbodad l'  -1 doful1;ii,97,adli                                             etintettri iii to . -   to  cse  o   dtsirenoo-isi
data.    ii-                                                                                        n.-ina I hopi 1i dtcd     . byNbatsr   fh
Irhn   crioincI   Yr-n  nthttl       ai  o   ra   ottn   oolt
difeen -dfloton c  oSir  oenaf Jaftact coe9r,tin  of70  dat 1d1ilOlddOlyPd.r--
onn   ootin;bG   -ill  _ard                   l  f - d -t .                                         kn-rua  ittnof titriol            Ttrnon  prr boutohod.i.- toal  urbt adi-     natu
doclat         br-IctohI-    h itotind cnists, of a guo   btI   niol   bcton  ttgqorl
Pouain  nya   Id     orocpplttnpoertc    r   aodc   91                                               i   hirai   ele        crero   ogeda-rca   o   ecoldft
totl 6ppultio  irai                                                                         NC n   n   h  ttraly   n   ntlc  t   osiidfroo  siaipro
raca.   rcjrtit ptiotrr  fo  antalityrais cnprre  f treebooa-l  ic ..ae  of  pauniebrn-oa,-ra,hd  ua.croataa
drrdanoitiiccpcnncatbrt  icraih-ticotr'airo  rcaneprccacoirbn,oduolcdpid-netina
.iraiuar           ticolett  ---I    - sttonr   popolhtIco  tbeebIn                                                       ...ot
a torttic  itth  tao  in eual notic dath  ror, an  o - to.ieog                 tIili
atrctur  onoon   ontan.   it i          -clior   only uttrr ter   Itrur                 O--tdgoelon  Rto
deci nono  cc  erlcronc  rco   cduttnt  rrdurccrt,  im                                    rn Rinbo  -rr    eade and                    . foarIrn   ico,  or  n  fe
rot  gerroiorfonncnplcoi         lelfI'clyl    Tbo-ettccurf                               roolrogflatrti    -riaapoeo                            ectua    frano
puoiing    ruinnioe    n  hd-li-                 h    rontdrtuoc  -                                c  ayacoiae   ooairt    osii   cida   hlrn   gdiI
irdt  ftb   oolcict  teyar200   ndcoraeofdfioli                                                       rm    i  ajoYdfr  iffrr-inrb fdrlrpoou  0t,o
fertllityrann -rr -ia -oa in ln   lh                                                            ottlnntunoraidoatcerclrntyereddpdcn
Ocortiticari  porlot on I  rea bed- Th  fra  ohe  uco icory                 t nrcuAn   oiia oIrehlna or o'en  t e  ffiil  ibo  aa
octy;   9il,  970 an .19i .dint.     l.                                                   tochiru  -n-11c rcrco  ocnoYl i-- ic hconLd i                                 6nltt on
Yea pours) ...dretlradti- frocnhtdcn_Tonrny-ncha                 -tidrarenioru.p.aat   ofo                                                Itdan iittitu-ticoat.; 
Poplto;16,17,nd191dr.rrlta   n   aio~ - rrar.  n   eco                                                                                             Yc-no   scud tnt        . tnred-t
Onr  orlote;  96,  RP.  nd991 dart.                                                     C-tccrrfiliN
Crao  ro   kne(m   r,oaad)-  enoldeth  pt  honud  f  idyor                 oorrerina  pe  coPan  poo              Ann  -  anege  cr
piplnnor;lOi,  971  ao  1i1  ata                                    cau  ettng  ot  nine gheyrnoc;  aciutnanh locta, cruaEaan
Cnn   Oerdotontcnutog    one  i   aoi.uuoor011tart                                                   ilisclotco
htrorntrprnucccrpecnd  f  he  o;rrtncn  peori ao-poificne 10Oeeicrn   rm counodporlacio I     M   nyeu  f  ecnotr  fr rdi
fon   tt  root;nac 12  tir-put  cccag-  otlin  in 196,  191   r                              rorotrttripolcp-toaado   iooic;tcie   n
1081.                                                                                               ilcordreirn            ptcocr-   ct  eod iytor .rrrt..r....o.ndi
raolyflonin-ccrprnn ,Aoualciotantl-dcuatoahrcfirtpcttocnnanictfrt ;orofrccncn   romsorrnbchnpoubpnitcnna
of b:irt-ccitt6n  d19i0e  coderg~ noaicr-o   onino    fouly dlanin                                    cJrnnson-ndI anig
bareduinr       (P ..o                                                                                                                         Pt ro.~pcucu      cu   i  ui
,,P      hod c  tumr) o I9    n  arc  1d9 b-8o on   iti   nrrn   r1                               icieocl,      cui1teyer   nldlo--otmo  cuiet   cor                              n
cYtir oPdtooae.c..d.o1oae   rdcIno  rod  Pooep- c                                                           i 9toni-rnJI..~d1  Y--d-
iota.        at                                                                                         C-10-010 fitlt--1
Gc   at  srl   f -oinI ncn  c   ootont---toe    rn                                                     oo  aWtfreI rnoin    cPntnlytrc    rnnu,icudn   rr
roryooloeco   ne-odd%En 00iol   niorr   e   utc   o                                                 Ine   n   nnlye   u   cldlgcoaect,noees,ec,cerc
do.Ociniosopie   opea  d,noi  pooc  o,  noroletpooanc   f  pi-gn    tttutinhlncitintccaar   o
enprt  ,tedrhogn  e  tot.  N   sppie  inino  rinl   ee, ncd,                 isocale   lii,190  rd  98  Ita
quantt-ieandi   odpoeuo,alieo.odnriain                                                                carlrcrl-Pnl   un p- cec a.. pd~ cPti   of to dlantie
tF  areet  oc   arioadt   uehsd  rphocdiclcrd   ortrolIeccrr                                                               -1 penr)PPc    ncr1   a-nt,freto   oo  n 
ocntniy nodhealt  conudenn   nicoon    rcntr,bd   eot,ftida   nciorc   no   oo   uc;it,Iuad18   ou
ofran  nn  tatiutoc  f  oploio,  ndoluoti  I  enen   tn  000            Ilurt  Ipecet  -cohn  or   I  ncig,couccciic,  notatocP
no  n-lyi.f.          -e   y   n   upyo   udi-  eine   nai    frtic...p. tittr..                                         rco  -f   1   toal  suit   an bio le-arctotco
pW 11,nUTo prtei,o   tliI  rm    tcIb   nelpori.ma                                                       il ,        ad101at. irocm    ae   nii    otcpncc,e
daro.                                                                           momMy DlhTtlOflldt~~~yS.                                      -
cooiit  otadencr   irn lictabet   1060, ; 1970      65 end  , 198  d 1u 9hinrct
icumo                                                                     picruri Obtlhy blIP S~~~~~~~~~~~~Nc
Pnntog   m Ibau  lic .  ith;..     1 ...Ord.10.   otap-in loco                                           1960et   minor lrcd  In8 chtd   c,n   nt  hla-rhull
qc-tnittoin -dottr       dpr  ...clo i 0 gre larin -... total~, orban,iadcoa   -- tatt -or lly noc                            -1t fInnrmo b efo,rtilcnfodrqle                ui   c
Iic tyo of rri Ittl, urban  anP--lulirocoitcnnooe                                                   iodl
oncrcciplnlucnIS        tdaricer=rorocnaIdnrrti-tdclaii-oucyncnoecl)h$nra                                                                              9cl  ocaor-           crl
uocimolnonoaccnccc 9nb0 icon coctdhocnlanpian oa                                              icunisit  ce             bp-cs I eorlet  ,tethid-tu        fr1rpcc d-
toiuc  2oi.nprcturuihdrepttcpouoI-t bocr,rlncn i    tnootp                                                                            rhnretsylcdnoteca
an  nanoapolcfococ   rrcdocicoo  nteroto f pS  -oti-                                            -eru  tobo to            - io-dht  nio  (on
-roeabconenoy  ho ccdereda  -poplhy                   cooalacouo   lnEteoe    on,tn  oodult focte9   ori,                                                            b-o  ( --enc96r
icse    crnancattucobrocunnadspytacihcttlfo                                              aarcu-rc-dcpicitItonoiod,olutar u-din
atahcu c  th  hooeici  cI nothou   no     . noddyrorr.   rn    oto
thedarIc  ent~ttetiily net         I coeds.    2  8-
prii-ad.   n19i6c ce1970nnta.toy19f



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 6
JAMAICA: ECONG(IC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                   Actual                                                  Prel.
current prices) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1981       1975    1976    1977    197'8    1979   1980    1981           1982       1983
PRICES
GDP Deflator (J$:  1974=100)                    121.2   134.0   150.4   189.4   219.6   256.0   274.7    298.4    343.2
Exchange Rate (J$ per US$)                        0.91    0.91    1.25    1.48    1.77    1.78    1.78          1.78      2.30
Share of CDP at Market Prices (2)                Average Annual Increases (Z)
(at cturrent prices)                         (at constant 1974 prices)
1976          1981          1986          1990      1976-81   1981-86       1983-90
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/
Gross Domestic Product              2939.4         100.0         100.0        100.0         100.0      -1.4         2.C          3.1
Agriculture                       223.9            7.8           8.2          8.2           8.2      -1.0         2.5          3.9
Industry                         1015.2           34.6          30.5         31.3          32.9      -3.7         2.9          4.9
Services                         1700.3           57.6          61.3         60.,5         58.9      -0.2         1.5          2.4
Consumption                         2621.3          93.0          86.2         78.5          76.4      -3.0        -0.3          1.6
Gross Domestic Investment            625.4          20.5          17.1         21.2          21.4      -4.4         6.9          6.3
Exports GNFS b/                     1409.2          29.6          34.9         37.2          39.5       2.1         3.9          5.2
Imports GNFS b/                    1716.4          -43.1         -38.2        -36.9         -37.3      -3.7         0.9          2.5
Gross National Savings               250.2          10.2           4.3         13.8          18.4    -14.9         30.3         25.6
As Z of GDP                                     Preliminary
1977/78       1979/80      1981/82      1982/83              1983/84
PUBLIC FINANCE c_/
Current Revenue                                   22.0          26.4         27.5         27.6                 27.8
Current Expenditure                               28.2          30.6         30.8         31.4                 34.7
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                        -6.2          -4.2         -3.3         -3.8                 -6.9
Capital Expenditure                               11.3           8.3         12.0         11.4                  8.5
Foreign Finance (net)                              0.7           3.3          9.4          4.7                  9.6
a/ At market prices.
b/ Based on balance of payments data.
cl Fiscal year - April/March 31.  Figures refer to Central Government operations.
dI Estimated.
April 1984



- 27 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 6
JAMAICA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1976-81          1981-86            1983-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (%)                             -1.9              1.5             2.5
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (%)                  -2.9              0.5             1.5
ICOR                                          -17.7              10.6             5.5
Marginal Savings Rate                            8.0              8.0            35.2
Import Elasticity                                4.6              0.8             0.8
Annual Growth Rate (%)
(at constant 1974 prices)
Amount           -------- ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  --------- ---------  --- -------
Indicator                  (million US$ at                       Actual                                  Est.       Projected
current prices)      ---------------------------------------------           ----------------------------
1981            1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982            1983    1986       1990
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)    974.0                6.6    -7.0      0.9    -2.1       0.8    -13.2         -2.0     8.3       7.8
Bauxite/Alumina                 760.1             17.2      3.6     0.0      7.4      3.3    -29.7       -21.7      8.0       7.2
Sugar/Bananas                    50.8            -6.1    -7.1    -4.6   -32.7   -12.7         14.3        14.7      3.4       8.1
Other                           163.1             -5.5   -31.4      8.6   -10.9    -1.8       26.7        -2.4    12.4        8.9
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)   1457.4               -5.5    -7.3   -11.3   -11.8    12.5    - 0.3            -5.0      2.9      3.9
Food                            101.9           -21.2      2.7   -31.6    -6.4    22.8        24.6        -1.5      0.8       2.7
Petroleum                       488.8              1.4   -14.7    18.5   -17.8    -2.7    -14.0            0.0      4.8       3.2
Capital Goods                   295.2           -14.8    -7.2   -14.6   -21.3    30.5         17.3       -14.9      2.7       2.7
Other                           571.5           - 9.1   -12.9   -21.8    -2.5    13.3         -4.2        -1.8      2.4       4.2
PRICES
Export Price Index a/ (1974=100)  -              154.0   248.6   319.4   380.9   379.1    354.3          466.3   966.4   1297.9
Import Price Index (1974=100)       -           125.7   205.8   310.8   369.7   421.7    396.7           481.4   964.9   1301.1
Terms of Trade Index (1974=100)   -              122.5   120.8   102.8   103.0    89.9        89.3        96.9   100.6       99.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)                     Average Annual Increases (%)
(at current prices)                               (at constant 1974 prices)
1960    1970    1975    1981    1986    1990            1971-76  1976-81   1981-86    1983-90
Exports                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               -3.0      -0.9       3.7          7.2
Bauxite/Alumina                       49.3    63.9    60.4    78.1    65.9    65.7              -2.5       5.3       -0.2         6.6
Sugar/Bananas                         31.8    14.5    21.6       5.2     8.1      7.9           -6.0    -13.7         9.7         9.4
Other                                 18.9    21.6    18.0    16.7    26.0    26.4              -3.6      -9.7       11.9        10.0
Imports                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              -6.1      -6.5        1.0         3.7
Food                                  16.6    13.5    11.6       7.0      7.7     7.3           -7.2    -10.5         0.3         4.0
t           Petroleum                              8.3     6.3    19.2    33.5    30.3    33.4             -11.9      -3.9        0.8         4.5
Machinery and Equipment               18.7    29.5    30.9    20.3    21.1    20.0               -7.9     -9.3        0.0         2.8
Other                                 56.4    50.7    38.3    39.2    40.9    39.3              -1.7      -6.8        1.8         3.1
a/ J$ Indices                                                                                                      April 1984



- 28 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
JAMAICA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions of USS at current prices)
Actual                                     Est.          Projecteda/
1976     1977     1978    1979      1980     1981       1982     1983      1986      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of GNFS                       887.9   967.4  1078.0  1165.2  1361.7  1402.3  1233.2  1305.5   2070.2               3324.6
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.        656.4   750.6   794.5   814.7   962.7   974.0   767.4   772.3    1338.0    2345.0
Imports of GNFS                      1123.5   922.5  1048.1  1220.6  1407.1   1737.3  1629.7  1594.5   2052.7              3150.4
Of which: Merchandise c.i.f.        907.9   756.2   856.6   994.0  1159.6  1457.4  1366.7  1335.0   1682.4               2611.4
Net Factor Services                   -74.0   -93.8  -142.4  -167.2  -212.3  -164.5  -134.2  -256.5   -415.4               -519.5
Net Transfers                            5.8    20.0      25.7    80.0    90.8   124.3   150.4   148.8    189.7             236.9
Current Account Balance                 -303.8   -28.9   -86.8  -142.6  -166.9  -375.2  -380.3  -396.8   -208.2    -108.4
Private Direct Investment c/              -0.6     -7.0   -28.8   -26.4        27.6   -11.5   -15.8       na        na          na
MLT Loans (net)                           79.2    -5.9   178.9    71.1    207.4   240.2   446.0   247.5            175.0       150.0
Other Capital b/                          11.3   -18.1  -201.8   -44.2  -128.8          65.7     38.3     29.3      65.0        75.0
Change in Reserves                       213.9     59.9   138.5   142.1       60.7      80.8   -88.2   120.0       -31.8    -116.6
International Reserves (net)           -116.3  -176.2  -314.7  -456.8  -517.5  -598.3  -510.1  -630.1    -501.8    -175.6
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                   179.5    83.0   112.9   171.7   295.8   473.3   581              394       386        401
Project Loans                        31.2    26.6       42.6    32.0    47.8       38.1     41       41         60         75
Special Financing                     -       10.4   198.8   125.5   139.5   139.4   231            256        125         74
Other Official                       73.0      71.0   -71.0    20.3   135.1        87.3   122         13        13         31
Government Guaranteed                47.0    38.5    23.3    11.5    50.6    38.4    64              84         90        150
Private Direct (net)                 -0.5    -7.0   -26.7   -26.4   -11.0          -2.8    na        na         na         na
Lines of Credit (net)                 -        11.3    33.6      11.5    -9.2       5.C    na        na         na         na
Other a/                             28.8   -67.8   -87.7        -2.7   -57.0   167.9   123           -         98         71
Official Debt Outstanding             831.8   926.2  1036.1   112.0  1313.6  1769.0  2273             2573      3301       3981
Debt Service: Total Service
Paymentsd/          102.8   159.1    144.6   165.5   177.6   239.4   295            357        516        645
Interest              54.2     66.0      62.2    97.9   126.4   138.1   218          263        341        394
Payments as % of
Exportse/            11.2      16.0    12.8    13.6       12.5    16.4    21.0       25.5       23.7       18.7
(36.7)    (31.3)     (23.3)
Average Interest Rate on New
Loans (7)                             -         -        -        -        -        -       8.3      8.4        8.7        8.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(year)                                -        -         -        -        -        -      15.1     15.5      11.7        11.3
a/  Projections on a fiscal year basis April I - March 31.
b/ Includes errors and omissions.
c/  Includes payments of interest to IMF but not principal, and excludes rescheduled principal payments.
d/ Includes private debt and unidentified capital flows.
e/ Figures in brackets include refinancing arrangements.
April 1984



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1984
-----US$ million----
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                                (less cancellat:Lon)
No.    Year    Borrower             Purpose                   Bank  Undisbursed
19 loans fully disbursed 1/                                    360.4
1464    1977    Jamaica              Rural Development           15.0       .9
1516    1978    Jamaica Public    Power                          20.0       .7
Service Co. Ltd.
1517    1978    Sugar Industry    Agriculture                    18.0      2.4
Authority
1716    1979    Jamaica              Forestry                    12.0      1.0
1740    1979    Jamaica              Highways                    16.0       .6
1978    1981    Jamaica              Exports Development         37.0      4.6
Fund
2017    1981    Petroleum Co.        Offshore Petroleum           7.5      4.5
Exploration
2070    1982    Jamaica              Third Education              6.8      5.6
2106    1982    Jamaica              Technical Assistance         6.1      3.0
2107    1982    Jamaica              Kingston Export Free        13.5    12.8
Zone
2188    1982    Jamaica              Power                       30.5    27.5
2293    1983    Jamaica              Highway                     15.0    15.0
2294    1983    Jamaica              Industrial Credit           15.1    15.1
2315    1983    Jamaica              SAL II                      60.2    25.4
2320 2/ 1983    Jamaica              EDF III                     30.1    30.1
2389 SI 1984    Jamaica              Urban Transport             16.0    16.0
Total (net cancellations)                           598.2
Of which has been repaid                             61.7
Total now outstanding                               536.5
Amount sold                           1.6
Of which has been relpaid            1.6              0.0
Total now held by Bank                              536.5
Total undisbursed                                   165.2
1/ Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.
2/ Not yet effective.
3/  Not yet signed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement Of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1984
US$ million
Date         Borrower           Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1961   Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.   Pre-mix concrete          0.2        -      0.2
1969   Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.           Tourism                 2.2       0.7      2.9
1980   West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.           Glass containers        2.3        -       2.3
1982   Jamaica Flour Mills    Food and food pro--
cessing               5.0        -       5.0
9.7      0.7    10.4
Less cancellations, terminations
participations, sales and repayments           2.4        -       2.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                7.3       0.7      8.0
Total Undisbursed                                 0.1       -       0.1



- 31 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
JAMAICA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
a) Loan request made to Bank: September 1983
b) Appraisal mission: Nov/Dec. 1983
c) Completion of negotiations: April 1984
d) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) establishment of the special account (para. 69);
(b) establishment and funding of the project account (para. 69);
(c) recruitment of consultant to assist in project management (para.
63); and
(d)  provision of statement on procedures for consultant recruitment
(para. 63).
Other special conditions are:
1)  The Borrower shall select the line agency where the concept
of program management would be incorporated by September 30,
1984 (para. 52); and
2) The Borrower would ensure that staff assigned to the
management of the project would have qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank (para. 62).



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
JAMAICA
PROPOSED PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(US$'000)
Foreign   Local   Total    %
A.  Project Management                             410      670    1080   19.1
B.  Financial Resources Management                2252      675    2927   51.8
1. Strengthening the Office of the
Financial Secretary                     144        20     164    2.9
2. Installation of Performance
Budgeting                               600      250      850   15.0
3. Development of Financial Officer
Corps                                  1400      300    1700   30.1
4.  Strengthening Ministry of Finance         108       105      213    3.8
C.  Human Resources Management                     904      524    1428   25.3
1.  Compensation Policy                       271        48      319    5.6
2. Rationalization of Public Sector
Organizations                             -        48      48    0.8
3.  Decentralization of Personnel Function 408          260     668   11.9
4. Development of Civil Service
Training and Consultancy Programs    225         168      393    6.9
D.  Restructuring of Line Agency                   120      100      220    3.9
Total Base Costs a/                          3686      1969    5655  100.0
Price Contingencies b/                        804       351    1155
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          4490      2320    6810
a/ April 1984 prices.
b/ Based on four-year disbursement schedule.



JAMAICA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
(Detafled ObJectives and Implementatfon Schedule)
1983                       1984                                           1985                        1986          1987          1988
1                 2                            1                2
A.  Project Preparationand Ma_ agemen
1.  Preparation of ARP                                            X   X
2.  Governmenit Annotuncement of ARP                                  a
3.  Appointment of Executive Dfrectors                                x
4.  Recruitment - Retained Consultant -ARP                                   X
5.  Hiring 6 project officers                                                    a  X  a
B.  Financial Resources Management
1. Strengthening Office of FS
Renruft Consultant(s)                                                                   K  K  K  K
Identify Functions of FS Office A Staffing Needs                                                     K  K  K       K
Prepare Job Descriptions                                                                                           K
Design & Implement Req'd. Organizational                                                                    a      a  x  x  x  x  a
Changes, MOP
Provide Space - Office of FS                                                                                                             K
Esgtablisb  Sf fice of FS                                                                                                                   a
f. Installation of Performance Budgetisi
Recruit Consultant 
Completion of Implementation Plan                                K
Execution of Pilot PFrojects                                           K  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a          a  a  a
Refine implementation plan                                                                                                    a  a  a
Design & Implement Training Programs for
MOP and Other Ministries                                      aC      a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a           a  a  a  a  a  a
Modify staffing in Implementing Ministries                                                                          a  a  a
Adjust accounting systems and procedures                                                                            a  a  a  a
Commence Formal Implem. in Pilot Ministry                                                                                     a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a    a
3.  Upgrading the Status of Financial Officers
Recruitment Staff Development Adviser                                                     a
Recruitment - Training Advisers                                                               a  a  a  a
Develop Financial Manpower Balance Sheet                                                  a  a  x  a
Develop Proposal for Standards, Rules & Pay
Structure of Corps                                                                              a  ax    a  a 
Olbtain Government Approval                                                                                           a  a  a
Implement Approved Plan                                                                                                         a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a
Develop Financial Staff Training Program                                 a  a  a  a
Detailed Design and-Implementation                                                     a          a  a  a  a   a  a  a  a      a  a  a  a    a  a  a  a    a     asx x x x     ax  ma XxaXaXaXX
4.  Strengthening of HOP
Recruit Consultants                                                                           a  a  a
Develop & Recommend Revisions to Legislation                                                                          a  a  a
Strengthen Financial Control of Public Enterprises
- Inventory Public Enteprises                                                                a
- Design & Implement Procedures for Allocation &
Release of Funds by MOP to PR                                                                 a  a  a
- Ensure MOP Representation on PE Boards                                                                  X
Design & Implementation of Plans to Strengthen
Accountant General Office & Consolidated Fund
Management                                                                                                    a      a
Design & Implementation of Procedure& Management
Inforatio  Sysem t  Strngthe  Deb  Mangemet J _________j                     a      a  ja  a         a       a  a  a  a             aXi______   _____ 



JIAMAICA
PUBLIC AVMINISThAI1ON4 REFORM PROJECT
(Detaile Objectives and I.plementation Schedule)
1983                       1984                                            1985                        1986          1987          18
1            ~~~~2                         1                2
1   2      J  F  M   A  M   J  J  A  SON   D            J  P  M   A  M   J  JA          SO0N       D   1   2         1   2         1   2
C. Human Resources Manage-m-ent
1.  Improve Compensation Policy
Recruit Consultants                                                                            r  c
Analyse Salary Structure & Recomnmnd
procedure for Reducing Compensation Cap
between Civil Service & Rest of Public Sector                                                           a  .  a       n  a  a
Implement.tton of Revised Salary Structure                                                                                                                  ...                     . a o.ann n.so. x a . nas    nanx
Develop Long-Term Compenstion & Position
Classification Policy & Strategy; Implement                                                             a                           nxa  x  nno o .  a  a .a
Identify Scarce-Skill Posts and Develop
Interim Incentives                                                                                         S  S 
2. Ratio.ali-ation of Public Sector Orjganlzatioun
Recruit Consultants                                                                            S  S  S
Identify Staffing Requirements of Statutory
Bodies & PE.                                                                                            a  n  a                 n
Develop Criteria for Creation of New Statutory
Bodies .nd C.,,tlouation of Existing St.tutocy
Bodies                                                                                                                       S  S  S  S
Design Implementation Plan for Ratlonaliuation                                                                                              a        a  a    
Obtain Government Approval                                                                                                                                        nox
Implem,entation of Plan                                                                                                                                                no .     n. . n.. un.n..n
3. Decentrali.ation of Personnel Function
Recruit C.ne.tltsot                                                                            a  n  n
Prepare Proposal Identifying MPS/PSC Relative                                                  xa
Role.
Devlop Model and implementation Plan for                                IS                            o     n        
D-eet-li-etion 
ibtain Government Approva   for Plan                                                                                       5  o
Revise Regulations                                                                                                               S  S  .  0  .  n
Strengthen and Reorgunice MPS/PSC Staff                                                                                           x  o  o
Desigo & Implementation of Computericatioc
of Personnel Records                                                               n  . nn.n.o.                       o  o  ,,  ,  .  .~ .  .  .                  
Design & Implement Training Programs for MPS/PSC
Staff A Perso..nnel Officers in Line Ministries                                                                                 n   noon                00    0     0 
Commence Pormel Implementation In Pilot Ministry                                                                                             00       00 000 00 
4.  Development of Public Service Tann 
Consultancy Programa
Recruit Consultants                                                                            a  a 
Determine P.utre Training Needs A Local Capacity                                                         a  o  a       a  x 
Design Trninioe Policy A Program to Determine
Institutional Arrangements; Develop
Implementation Strategy                                                                                                   co         000
Government Approval                                                                                                                            n  o
Implementation                                                                                                                                        n      o  o  onoo          o   co on    oon
S. Restructuring of Line Agency (Pilot)
Selection of Line Agency                                                                              o
Identify/Recruit Consultanto                                                                                                     o  n                                                                                                 00
Restructuring of Line Agency Along Progran                                                                                                                                                                                               >
M.anagment Lines                                                                                                                           . 0 000 .   .   .   .n.
Ases..  RestructuingZ Effort A Mukc Revisonn                                                                                                                                    00
aegin IapIeaentttion in other Ministries                                                                                                                                             x
Note:  Pilot ioplcmentation of perio-nce budgeting nod dec-t-ulization of personnel fontiooo will he exected jointly in thc non  olniotry  -o deocrbed in R-otroctorig  t Line
Agency  -opooe.t.  These  -ctivitien  are aioo  listed nod-r tic  relevant  -oponents for  -oplet--o..



0                     0_=                 l
=~~ ~ ~ a      :; S C..   _ = _. ..           o     .
i;f  '=        ;>s->=*O=%  -   '{'=-A8=   ' ;=
'''   1+        S,  k  ='i:,>  = *               t-- 0 '=.
===''-.;'e;:f-;5 0
'S'.S{-0 AVg    X                  tLi S w
ix,J,'ti  W0s                        ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
{     I-fXfXfT               f0Xf 
2_                    



- --                        - --*



