Report No. PID11582
Project Name                     PAKISTAN-Pakistan Partnership for Polio Eradication
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Health (100%)
Project ID                       P081909
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 11, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              January 27, 2003
Bank Approval Date               April 22, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
While Pakistan's health indicators have improved in the nineties, they
remain weak relative to its per capita income of $440. The infant
mortality rate of 85 and child mortality rate of 110 per 1000 live births
are the highest in South Asia. Total fertility rate of 4.8 children per
woman is also highest except for Bhutan. One out of 30 women dies in
childbirth, and malnutrition among women and children is widespread.
Much of this mortality and morbidity is caused by preventable or readily
treatable diseases. But the health system has an urban and curative bias,
and is characterized by (i) low (0.7% of the GDP) and inefficient public
spending; (ii) uneven public and private service quality; (iii) lack of
consumer protection/education; (iv) lack of risk-pooling mechanisms; and
(v) a weak regulatory framework. People's dissatisfaction with public
services is evident from their seeking 80% of the outpatient care from the
private sector.
The government tried to address several of the above weaknesses though a
multi-donor supported Social Action Program Project (SAPP) launched in
1992, that focused on sector and management reforms, communicable disease
control and maternal health. SAPP achieved limited success, especially in
improving immunization coverage of children which, for polio, remains
around 60% against the at-least 80% needed.   Weakly implemented reforms,
staff absenteeism, weak output/outcome monitoring and poor supervision
impeded progress. The SAPP-2 is now under implementation and seeks to
improve the quality of and access to basic services by developing
capacity, improving governance, increasing public expenditure on social
services, promoting sustainability, and encouraging NGO and private sector
participation in service delivery. GOP's broader devolution initiative
aims at addressing key health issues by improving staff accountability,
efficiency, service quality and coordination with the private sector.
Also a medium-term human development strategy, outlined in the I-PRSP and
in the 2001 Health Policy, focuses on (i) strengthening preventive health
services including immunization, communicable disease control, maternal
and child health, and family planning; (ii) improving the quality of
hospital services at the tehsil (sub-district) and district headquarters
hospitals; and (iii) strengthening management capacity at the district



level. GOP has increased financing for immunization and the routine
immunization program is being strengthened.
2. Objectives
The project purpose is to assist the Government of Pakistan (GOP) in
eradicating Poliomyelitis from Pakistan. The project objective is to
support the supply of the additional oral polio vaccine (OPV), needed
during 2003-05, for the country's supplementary immunization activities
(SIA), i.e., for conducting National Immunization Days (NIDs),
Sub-National Immunization Days (SNIDs) and "mopping-up operations".
The project is a part of a World Health Organization (WHO) led,
multi-country, effort and will contribute to a global public good, i.e.,
the eradication of Polio from the world by 2005.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Pakistan's Polio Eradication Initiative has been a major national effort
since 1994, and has been supported by several donors. WHO and UNICEF are
the lead technical partners for polio eradication globally and in
Pakistan. Through them, the donors are providing grant funds for the
operational, surveillance and about half the remaining vaccine costs. An
additional $19.4 million is needed to meet the vaccine requirements for
2003-2005. IDA will meet this gap through a normal credit that will be
reduced to grant funding through an innovative IDA Buy-down mechanism.
Following an appeal from the Global Polio Eradication Technical Advisory
Committee, the Bank, in partnership with the Gates Foundation (GF), Rotary
International (RI) and UN Foundation, has developed the IDA Buy-down
financing mechanism to support intensified polio eradication activities in
polio-endemic countries. Funds provided by these partners will "buy-down"
the cost of IDA Credits to grant terms to support the following countries
identified by WHO as the polio- endemic: Afghanistan, Pakistan and India
in South Asia and Nigeria, Ethiopia, Democratic Republic of Congo and
Angola in the Africa Region. A Polio Eradication Trust Fund, financed by
GF and RI (through UNF) and managed by the World Bank, has been
established. The Trust Fund will pay the service fee for the Credit
during the implementation and buy down the net present value of the IDA
Credit when the projects are successfully completed. Thus IDA Credit to
Pakistan will in effect be a grant for polio eradication. Since the
partners will buy the credit at the Net Present Value, it enables them to
leverage their funds for financing polio eradication in Pakistan and
elsewhere: they need about a third of the funds they would otherwise need
to finance the same goods and services. Through the partnership, they are
also able to access the rigor of Bank's project preparation and
supervision in support of their efforts for polio eradication.
Responding to its global responsibility, the Bank will pilot, through this
project, a new financing approach to encourage urgent action on a global
public good with significant externalities. This approach will permit the
Bank to engage public and private partners in a common global cause.
4. Description
1. Project Components (See Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3
for a detailed cost break down):
-2-



The Project will have three components, i.e., OPV procurement,
supplemental operations, and surveillance. IDA will finance only the
first of these, i.e., timely procurement and supply of the needed
quantities of oral polio vaccine to Pakistan's National Immunization
Program (NIP) and its effective use by the NIP. This will support the
NIP's goal of achieving, through SIA, a polio free status for Pakistan by
2005. IDA will finance the procurement of OPV though UNICEF for use in
the NIDs, SNIDs and possible "mopping-up" operations, during 2003-2005.
UNICEF is an established agency for vaccine procurement and is already
procuring the OPV for Pakistan.
Pakistan will conduct four rounds each of NIDs and SNIDs in 2003, two of
each in 2004, and two NIDs in 2005. The estimated need for the SIA is for
approximately 371 million doses at an estimated cost of $35.4 million.
IDA will finance OPV for $19.4 million as the remaining $16.0 million is
expected from the Government of Japan. The total OPV budget for January
2003 to June 2005 is as follows
Pakistan has the following eradication strategy:
1. reaching and maintaining the highest possible routine polio
immunization coverage (80% minimum) with at least three dozes of OPV;
2. NIDs to deliver additional supplemental doses of OPV to all children
below five years of age;
3. surveillance to detect and investigate every case of acute flaccid
paralysis (AFP) in children below 15 years of age, and all suspected polio
cases regardless of age; and
4. SNIDs in areas with low immunization coverage and districts with
persistent polio transmission.
Supplemental operations have three main activities: maintenance of cold
chain; social mobilization; and training. Seeking to reach every child
below five years through expanded fixed-site and house-to-house OPV
delivery, with special attention needed to reach the remote/resistant
populations, organizing eradication campaigns is a complex logistical
exercise. It requires special structures in place to plan the campaign
and coordinate its implementation. In Pakistan, the scale of the
operation (over 30 million children to be immunized on an NID), the very
short time scale (three days) with over 90% of the immunization posts
outside the primary health care facilities (schools, mosques, etc.) makes
it even harder to implement these activities. But the needed
infrastructure is in place and serves well. These operations almost
regularly reach over 95% of the target group. Before each round of
immunization, extensive micro-planning, social mobilization campaigns,
cold chain maintenance, and training of the participants is conducted and
this contributes to successful campaigns. The system is well-streamlined
and functions well.
WHO, with its 117 member national and international staff, and UNICEF with
its sizeable field presence support polio eradication activities in
-3 -



Pakistan.
The 2003-05 budget for Supplemental Immunization Activities (SIA) is given
below:
Oral Polio Vaccine Procurement: $35.4 million
Supplemental Operations: $18.4 million
Surveillance: $4.35
Total: $58.39 million
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $20.00
Total Project Cost $50.98
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented and monitored through the existing
government structures established to implement the Pakistan Polio
Eradication Initiative (PEI). To ensure timely procurement and supply of
the oral polio vaccine (OPV) to the National Immunization Program (NIP),
and to monitor its effective use, the following implementation
arrangements will be in place.
Procurement: OPV will be supplied to GOP by UNICEF under an agreement to
be entered into between the GOP and UNICEF. A draft agreement for the
purpose has been finalized. UNICEF's international procurement division,
based in Copenhagen, will undertake the procurement following UNICEF's
procurement procedures. Program Director, EPI will be responsible for
receiving the OPV at the National Institute of Health (NIH), Islamabad and
for its in-country storage, distribution, administration and use. UNICEF
will supply the OPV to all the countries supported by the Partnership for
Polio Eradication Program (IDA Buy-down projects).
Vaccine requirements are forecasted by the National Program Manager, EPI,
based on the latest estimates of the population of children under five
years, and the number of dozes to be given per child during a given year.
The requirements are worked out with support from WHO and UNICEF and are
endorsed by the Inter-Agency Coordination Committee (ICC). National
Program Manager, EPI, has forecasted the requirements of OPV for the years
2003-05 as 194 million dozes for 2003, 99 million dozes for 2004 and 79
million dozes for 2005.
Financial Management: Simplified financial management arrangements are
appropriate for this project. The project does not envisage direct
involvement of the Borrower in the management and accounting of funds.
UNICEF will be responsible for these functions under the agreement for OPV
supply. The credit proceeds will be disbursed directly to UNICEF on
receipt of withdrawal applications from the Borrower. Expenditure will be
incurred only on items laid down in the agreement including OPV costs,
freight, and handling charges.
UNICEF will submit quarterly financial reports to the Borrower with a copy
to IDA in an agreed format that tracks funds disbursed, vaccines purchased
and number of children immunized. These reports will be used by IDA to
- 4 -



monitor the outstanding balance and the funds received and spent by
UNICEF. Also, it will enable IDA to verify the expenditures before
subsequent disbursements. Borrower will be able to confirm to IDA the
receipt of the quantities of OPV indicated in these reports. The borrower
will also submit to IDA quarterly utilization of the vaccines received.
The Borrower is not required to appoint an independent external auditor or
to submit an audit report of the annual financial statements.
Supplemental Immunization Activities (SIA): While the project supports a
single component of procurement, supply and use of OPV, the OPV will be
used in the SIA which are organized and implemented as follows.
Polio eradication is integrated within the EPI. The Federal Ministry of
Health implements that program at the national level through the National
Institute of Health (NIH), and in close collaboration with WHO and the
UNICEF. The National Program Manager, EPI, who reports to the NIH
Executive Director, is responsible for the SIA. A WHO team consisting of
a CDC seconded senior epidemiologist, a senior program administrator, an
NID controller, an EPI expert, a statistician, a social mobilization
expert and a logistician assists the Director, EPI. Coordination
Committees at the federal, provincial and district levels include
government officials of related departments, local political and social
leaders, and representatives of the NGOs and donors. At the provincial
level, the Director, Health Services (EPI) heads the program under the
guidance of the Director- General, Health Services. At the Divisional and
District levels, the Director, Health Services and the District Health
Officer (EDO (H)) respectively supervise the EPI activities respectively.
The EDO (H), supported by the local EPI officers, undertakes detailed
micro-planning, to ensure that people and transport are available on the
day of the SIA campaign. They also verify that calculations on the
logistics forms with regard to the target population, number and location
of NID posts, cold chain needs, and ice requirements are accurate. This
process is supported by the Federal EPI Cell and UNICEF.
The Federal MOH is responsible for the procurement, storage and supply of
vaccines, cold chain equipment, syringes, needles and for transport. The
Provincial Departments of Health bear the cost of staff, training, health
education, stationary, POL (petrol, oil and lubricants), and other
contingencies. WHO and UNICEF assist by supplying the vaccines, cold chain
equipment, vehicles and TA.
A national level Inter-Agency Coordination Committee (ICC), chaired by the
National Program Manager, EPI, has the overall responsibility for
coordinating the planning and monitoring operations, and for the vaccine
supply. Similar committees function at the provincial level chaired by
the provincial Director General, Health Services. The Provincial
Committees are responsible for specifying tasks, developing check lists,
monitoring progress of planning and critical steps, delivering clear and
simple messages to the community, indenting for vaccine, and ensuring that
the cold chain is effectively functioning. The role of the provincial
Director, Health Services (EPI) is to plan, implement, monitor and
evaluate the SIA. At the district level, Coordination Committees are
chaired by the EDO (H), and attended by the Deputy Commissioner. These
- 5-



Committees meet monthly, and more frequently close to the actual
campaigns.
The polio eradication campaigns require efficient organization and
mobilization of resources. The mass media, religious and community leaders
play a key role in raising awareness and mobilizing the public. School
teachers, community members and Lady Health Workers are all involved in
giving the oral vaccine. UNICEF's provides strong support to the social
mobilization component of the campaigns.
Monitoring and Evaluation: SIA coverage is monitored by an analysis of
tally sheets recording the number of children immunized against the number
in the target group. The 1998 population census figures are used along
with growth rate projections to arrive at a fairly accurate target group
number. Output monitoring is undertaken at the provincial level and the
SIA impact is monitored at the national level through the AFP surveillance
system. Third party monitoring is undertaken through an independent
agency and monitors the quality of SIA in high-risk and other selected
districts. The Technical Advisory Group (TAG) meets periodically and
assesses progress. It analyses the polio eradication situation and
provides recommendations to give strategic directions to the operations.
These reports along with the periodic assessments of the SIA quality are
also used for monitoring and evaluation purposes.
Surveillance: Surveillance quality in Pakistan has achieved and maintained
international standards for quality in key indicators since 2000. This is
largely due to the deployment of WHO supported surveillance officers (SOs)
throughout the country, now totaling nearly 60. Their main activities
include continued active visits of key reporting sites; advocacy meetings
with physicians, unregistered health care practitioners and faith healers;
and training workshops for district surveillance coordinators and
vaccinators. Surveillance goes through periodic international quality
reviews.
7. Sustainability
The supplementary immunization activities will end with polio eradication
and there will be no need to sustain these. Also donors and technical
agencies are committed to eradicating polio in Pakistan and globally.
Polio eradication benefits are infinite because the disease will be
extinct, unless a man-made mistake or disaster makes it reappear.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Globally polio eradication is benefiting from some of the important
lessons learnt from smallpox eradication. The program focus is more on
disease surveillance than on immunization coverage. Again, flexible
control strategies are driven by surveillance data. For example, Pakistan
is employing SIA flexibly, based on surveillance data indicating where the
main pockets of the disease are. A similar approach is planned for
"mopping-up" the final cases as eradication nears.
The project design reflects the lessons from earlier IDA-supported HNP
projects in the South Asia region:
Keep the project design simple and well-defined. IDA support will focus
on a single component of the polio eradication program in Pakistan.
- 6 -



Use of a Project Coordination Unit may undermine the regular structures in
a Ministry. The project will only use regular structures and institutions
in place.
Establish good coordination with the other partners. The Resident mission
has a senior public health specialist who will provide technical support
locally and participate in the Inter-Agency Coordination Committee
meetings.
Other relevant lessons from the completed projects in Pakistan, especially
from the SAPP, are:
Focus on quality: SIA provide house-to-house, convenient immunization
services; the objective itself is to achieve a coverage of over 90- of
children in the targeted districts.
Decentralize, streamline and shift to community control: The project
involves repeated, large-scale effort through full involvement of the
community. Without such community support, this project can not be
successfully implemented.
Improve monitoring and evaluation and the value and timeliness of
feedback: The project seeks to achieve polio eradication through focused,
large-scale campaigns that utilize surveillance data as the basis of
planning. Strong monitoring and evaluation drives immunization activities.
Address sustainability: Sustainability will not be an issue in this
project aimed at polio eradication from Pakistan, which will also
contribute to its eradication from the world.
Build political will throughout the society: Repeated community
participation in one day campaigns side-by-side with the government
officials is likely to be conducive to the promotion of such political
will in the society.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project will contribute in a significant way to
the eradication of wild polio virus from the environment, leading to
world-wide eradication of poliomyelitis. The project's methodology,
stimulating oral vaccination with the attenuated virus, has no significant
negative environmental impact which would need to be addressed in this
project.
The key stakeholders of the project are children below 5 years of age
receiving the vaccines. Their parents, especially their mothers, have been
the target for the last several years of IEC campaigns for the ongoing
polio eradication efforts. Other stakeholders are the state and federal
health authorities responsible for the implementation of the campaign.
The international community is another important stakeholder, given the
fact that disease eradication is a global public good. Therefore, the
polio eradication campaigns have seen an extraordinary cooperation from
many donors, governments and communities. The Bank's contribution,
towards the end of the campaign, is coupled with that of the Gates
Foundation and Rotary International.
10. Contact Point:
-7-



Task Manager
Jagmohan S. Kang
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 91-172-743318
Fax: 91-172-743631
Or
#63, Sector 2, Chandigarh - 160 001
India
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 14, 2003.
-8-



