                              Document of
                            The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR0000110




      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-37610 IDA-37611)

                                ON A

                 LOAN / CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF

                          SDR 29.23 MILLION

                      (US$ MILLION 42.70 CREDIT)

                                  TO

                              PAKISTAN

                                 FOR

              PARTNERSHIP FOR POLIO ERADICATION




                            January 25, 2007




South Asia Human Development Sector
World Bank Office: Islamabad
SOUTH ASIA

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        ( Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2006 )
                              Currency Unit = PK Ru
                                 PK Ru 1.00 = US$ 0.0166
                                  US$ 1.00 = PK Ru 60.20

                                     Fiscal Year
                                    July 1 - June 30




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFP   Acute Flaccid Paralysis
BMGF  Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CDC   Communicable Disease Control
EPI   Expanded Program for Immunization
GOP   Government of Pakistan
ICC   Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee
ICT   Islamabad Capitol Territory
LHW   Lady Health Worker
mOPV1 Monovalent type 1 vaccine
NID   National Immunization Day
NWFP  North West Frontier Province
OPV   Oral Polio Vaccine
PRSP  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RI    Rotary International
SIA   Supplemental Immunization Activities
SNID  Sub-National Immunization Day
TAG   Technical Advisory Group
UNF   United Nations Foundation
UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
WHO   World Health Organization




                            Vice President: Praful C. Patel
                          Country Director: John W. Wall
                           Sector Manager: Anabela Abreu
                      Project Team Leader: Inaam Haq

                                                       Pakistan
                                   Partnership for Polio Eradication




                                                   CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 2
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
8. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 12
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 14
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 15
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 16
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 17
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 20
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 21
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 22
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 24
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 25
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 26
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 27
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 32
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 34
Annex 13. Additional Annexes..................................................................................... 35
13.1 Annex 13. WHO Performance Audit Report of the Polio Eradication Project:
Executive Summary...................................................................................................... 35
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 37

1. Basic Information

Country:                Pakistan              Project Name:           Partnership for Polio
                                                                      Eradication
Project ID:             P081909               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-37610,IDA-37611
ICR Date:               01/25/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
                                                                      OF PAKISTAN
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 14.7M             Disbursed Amount:       XDR 29.2M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

Expnaded Program on Immunization, Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 01/13/2003           Effectiveness:     08/07/2003        08/07/2003
Appraisal:         01/27/2003        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          05/15/2003        Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:           06/30/2006        06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)          Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):          None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):    None

DO rating before                Highly
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                       100               100
                                                               Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Gender                                                           Secondary         Secondary
Child health                                                     Primary           Primary
Other communicable diseases                                      Primary           Primary


5. Bank Staff
                          Positions                                  At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                               Praful C. Patel    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                                             John W. Wall       John W. Wall
Sector Manager:                                               Anabela Abreu      Anabela Abreu
Project Team Leader:                                          Inaam Haq          Jagmohan S. Kang
ICR Team Leader:                                              Shahnaz Kazi
ICR Primary Author:                                           Shahnaz Kazi


6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)
Polio immunization was introduced in Pakistan as part of the Expanded Program for
Immunization (EPI) in 1978 but a systematic polio eradication initiative through supplemental
immunization activities (SIA) began later in 1994 and was further intensified in 2000. The key
elements of the Program included: increased coverage through routine immunization;
introduction of house to house immunization; increasing number of National Immunization Days
(NIDs); Sub-National Immunization Days (SNIDs) in areas with low immunization coverage; and
limited mop up operations.

The national effort was supported by several donors. Government resources financed staff
salaries and associated recurrent expenditures that comprised roughly half the total cost of the
Program. WHO and UNICEF were the lead technical partners and through them a number donors
provided grant funds for the operations, surveillance and vaccine costs. The program was
overseen by: the Inter-Agency Coordination Committee (ICC) including representation from the
Government, multilateral agencies, bilaterals, NGOs, community mobilization and media experts;
and the Technical Advisory Group (TAG) comprising international and national experts. The
success of the program was demonstrated in the significant reduction in polio cases from 1803 in
1994 to 103 cases in 2003. Although the number of cases is small, global pay-offs in the final
phase of eradication are extremely high due to strong cross border externalities where a single
infected child puts all the world's children at risk of contracting the disease.

Pakistan faced challenges in sustaining the intensive effort. The final push to eradication entailed
significant costs while the number of polio cases was small and there were competing demands
on resources for other preventable disease with higher prevalence. Although external grant funds



                                                   2

continued to be available for other components of the program, stable and secure financing of
OPV that comprised more than half of SIA expenditures remained an issue and there was a
shortfall of resources for OPV supplies. In this context the Government of Pakistan sought Bank
support of roughly US$20 million to meet the vaccine requirements for the period from 2003-05.

The Bank in partnership with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF), the Rotary
International (RI) and the United Nations Foundation (UNF) had developed an innovative
financing mechanism, the IDA buy-down, to meet the vaccine requirements of polio endemic
countries. Recognizing the global public good element of polio eradication the arrangement
leverages external donor funds to cover the costs of eradication. The IDA buy-down essentially
converts an IDA Credit into a Grant subject to successful achievement of pre-determined
performance indicators.

Pakistan and Nigeria are the first two countries where the mechanism has been piloted to support
polio eradication programs. The Polio Eradication Trust Fund financed by the BMGF and RI pays
the service fees for the Credit during implementation and will buy down the net present value of
the IDA Credit when the projects are successfully completed. The buy-down will be triggered on
certification through a performance audit by WHO that the agreed targets have been achieved.

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project objective is to support the supply to the Government of Pakistan (GoP) of 50% of the
Oral Polio Vaccine needed for Supplemental Immunization Activities during 2003-2005. This is
an input into the GoP's program to eradicate Poliomyelitis.

The following two indicators were used to measure project performance:
     Timely arrival of the OPV at the central stores of GoP's Expanded Program of
         Immunization (EPI) in Islamabad at least five weeks before each of the SIAs; and
     SIA coverage of 80% achieved in the targeted population (children below 5 years of age)
         in each of the four provinces during 2005.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO,
as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

The project benefited all children of Pakistan particularly poor and disadvantaged children living
in unsanitary condition that are particularly vulnerable to polio and whose immunization
coverage tends to be the lowest. Even children who did not receive immunization benefited from
"herd immunity" that occurs when coverage of 80% is achieved. Since polio eradication is a
global public good, the benefits of the project extend beyond the national target group and
include the present and future world population.


In addition millions of children in Pakistan benefited from the provision of Vitamin A that was
also distributed during NIDs. The effect of the vitamin in reducing the incidence of blindness
and more generally reducing infant mortality is well established. The gains would have been
highest for children from poor households who are most at risk of vitamin A deficiency.


                                                 3

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project supported the Pakistan Polio Eradication Initiative (PEI) that has three components.
It supported only the first component of timely provision of part of OPV supplies needed for
eradication campaigns to immunize children below five years of age. IDA financed the
procurement of about 54% of the OPV needed to carry out SIAs during the period from 2003-
2005. The vaccines were procured under an agreement between GOP and UNICEF using
UNICEF procedures. The total amount of the Credit was US$41.51 million including appraisal
estimate of US$20 million and supplementary financing of US$21.51 million.

The other two components of the program were supported by UNICEF and WHO through
bilateral donors and private agency contributions. These are briefly summarized below. The
second component comprised of supplemental operations that included three main activities:
maintenance of cold chain, social mobilization and training. Organizing SIAs is a complex
logistical exercise due to the large scale of operations ( a target group of over 30 million children
for each NID), the short time frame of three days, and the fact that 90% of the immunization
posts are outside the primary health facilities (schools, mosques etc.) and require coordination
across sectors. This component provided necessary support to ensure effective implementation
through extensive micro-planning, social mobilization campaigns, cold chain maintenance, and
training of the participants. International and national staff was contracted with assistance from
WHO and UNICEF to support district, provincial and national units of the Program and oversee
the activities in the field.

The third component supported surveillance including laboratory and epidemiological
surveillance. The surveillance system is fully functional and data are regularly reviewed by
TAG in collaboration with Government counterparts and technical partners.

6.6 Revised Components

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

At appraisal the total amount of the Credit was US$20 million. Due to continued low intensity
transmission of the wild poliovirus, the TAG recommended further intensification of the
campaign and the GoP requested IDA for a supplementary credit of US$21.51 million to finance
the additional cost of OPV. The supplementary Credit was approved in September 2004.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The design incorporated lessons from earlier operations including the need for simplicity, use of
existing implementation structures and a strong focus on monitoring and evaluation. It comprised
a single component, procurement of OPV, that addressed a critical financing gap in an otherwise
effectively functioning program with well developed capacity for intensive campaigns and strong
technical support from WHO and UNICEF. Potential risks were adequately assessed including



                                                  4

of a larger than expected financing gap that did materialize and was mitigated through
supplementary financing.

The project piloted an innovative financing mechanism, the IDA-buy down, that leveraged
external donor resources to cover the costs of polio eradication conditional on meeting
performance targets. The buy-down arrangement encouraged the government, particularly the
Ministry of Finance to maintain the momentum of the polio campaign during the final phase
when the number of cases were small and costs high. The innovative financing mechanism was
appropriate to the strong global externalities of the initiative while ensuring the necessary
attention to results. It was also suitable since the results were easily measurable and a quality
monitoring and surveillance system was in place. The performance based design enabled the
federal program to influence the provinces to focus greater attention on outcomes and results.

A weakness of the design related to the choice of the performance indicator of timely arrival of
vaccines that as subsequent events indicated was not in the control of the implementing agency or
its local partners. This point is elaborated in Section 7.3.

While a quality of entry assessment was not undertaken, the buy-down projects for Pakistan and
Nigeria were selected for the President's Award for Excellence in 2004. The award recognized
the team's effort in operationalizing the buy-down mechanism in support of a global public good
through preparation and implementation of the polio partnership projects in the two countries.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

Implementation was favorably influenced by a combination of factors. These include: (i) strong
partnership between government and donors on all aspect of the program; (ii) effective use of a
reliable monitoring and surveillance system to guide strategy and planning; and (iii) simplicity of
the project design.

A shared commitment to the goal of polio eradication and the resulting strong partnership
between government and donors was central to the success of the program and the execution of
the project. WHO and UNICEF provided substantial technical support and built capacity of the
program in key areas of social mobilization, training of teams, cold chain management and
maintenance, output monitoring and the development of a high quality surveillance system.
Additionally, a significant number of national and international staff hired by WHO/UNICEF
worked with the program at all levels. Technical oversight of the program was also facilitated by
partnerships with donors and other international and national experts through meetings of the
ICC and TAG and regular consultations on progress of the program.

Exemplary use of the monitoring and surveillance system played a critical role in effective
implementation of the project. Data were used to identify high risk districts and specific measures
taken in line with local contexts to improve coverage and quality of SIAs in these areas. These
aspects are elaborated further in Section 7.3.

The procurement of OPV was well managed and was facilitated by adoption of simplified
processes and good coordination among partners. UNICEF was allowed to use its own
procedures for procurement. Another simplified process that worked well was the use of a
blanket withdrawal application for the total project cost and transfer of IDA funds to UNICEF on



                                                    5

receipt of six monthly requests from the GoP. Close coordination between WHO, UNICEF and
the EPI enabled timely forecasting of vaccine requirements and submission of requests for
payments and prompt disbursement of IDA funds to UNICEF.

However, for reasons beyond the control of the Government or UNICEF the project was unable
to fulfill the performance target of timely arrival of vaccines five weeks prior to each SIA. Based
on records of the EPI store and the UNICEF procurement unit, the WHO Audit team found that
none of the consignment of vaccines arrived within the stipulated time while in over 70% of
cases the arrival time of vaccines ranged between 20 and 34 days. The delay in arrival was
largely due to changes in the global demand and supply situation of OPV as a result of: (i) an
unforeseen global shortage in the wake of the polio outbreak in Nigeria and the resultant re-
infection in several polio free countries in Asia and Africa; and (ii) the introduction of
monovalent type 1 vaccine that complicated the manufacturers production planning process and
where vaccine requirements were determined at a fairly late stage since these had to be
responsive to the most recent epidemiological data. Further details on these factors are provided
in the correspondence with UNICEF and WHO that is attached in Annex 11.

The WHO Audit completed in September 2006 noted that in the changed global scenario the
performance target was not achievable. It was also observed that the inability to adhere to the
arrival time for vaccines did not affect implementation and there was not a single instance of
delay or shortages of supplies for SIAs. The buy-down of the net present value of the IDA Credit
was triggered on certification of the WHO Audit that the project had achieved its objectives. The
executive summary of the WHO Audit report is attached in Annex 13.

Costs and financing: The total financing for the project was US$41.5 million for procurement of
OPV including the original Credit of US$20 million and supplemental financing of US$21.51
million. Total expenditure for the project was US$42.69 million after cancellation of
US$245,918.5 of unspent balances with UNICEF.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: The program monitoring and surveillance system was well established prior to the
project and comprised the following elements: (i) program coverage data; (ii) post campaign
monitoring of NIDS that assesses coverage and quality of campaigns; and (iii) AFP surveillance
to monitor outcomes. In addition the project M&E plans included: (i) a third party survey to
assess coverage by end of the operation: and (ii) a WHO performance audit to report on timely
vaccine procurement, use and coverage of children immunized.

Implementation:

     Program coverage data was collected routinely during SIAs and recorded the number of
         children immunized against estimates of target populations based on projections of the
         1998 census data.
     The post campaign monitoring of NIDs was undertaken immediately after the SIAs in all
         districts covering roughly 1.3% of the target group of children and focusing particularly
         on poorly performing areas. The work was undertaken by semi-independent teams at the
         district level including consultants hired by WHO/UNICEF, national surveillance
         officers, district surveillance officers and other district staff. In addition to assessing
         coverage, other output indicators of quality of campaigns were also tracked including
         participation of females in vaccination teams, regularity of supervision, training



                                                    6

          attendance, and communication efforts including display of posters and announcements
          in mosques.
     The AFP system comprises all elements of an effectively functioning surveillance
          system. These include: timely detection through linkages at the community level with
          Lady Health Workers (LHWs), other trained community health personnel and with
          health facilities in both the public and private sector including informal care providers; a
          specimen collection and transportation system with links to the WHO accredited
          National Laboratory; effective oversight and supervision through a cadre of well trained
          surveillance officers that ensured investigation, proper testing and documentation of each
          case; regular analysis of data and dissemination of results through weekly/monthly
          updates. The AFP surveillance has met or exceeded targets of WHO performance
          indicators of quality over the last 3 years. These are: (i) non-polio AFP rate (at least one
          non polio AFP case per 100,000 persons aged < 15 years) ; and (ii) completeness and
          timeliness of stool specimen collection (at least 80% of AFP cases with two adequate
          stool specimens collected from patients within 14 days of paralysis onset). It is also
          worth noting that a recent Bank assessment of surveillance in Pakistan rated the polio
          surveillance as a model system.
     The third party national EPI Coverage Evaluation survey was undertaken in May-June
          2006 soon after the NID held in April 2006 and included four questions to assess polio
          coverage. The survey was based on WHO cluster sampling techniques with a total
          sample size of 140,400 children under two years of age that was representative at the
          district level. The survey provided robust estimates of coverage for every district of
          Pakistan.
     The WHO Audit Report was completed as planned by end September 2006 and the
          findings were used by IDA to trigger the buy-down.

Utilization: The program is an outstanding example of effective utilization of data to guide
decision making at all levels. The findings of the post campaign monitoring data were promptly
reviewed in district level meetings and areas where quality was found to be below a minimum
standard were re-visited. Data from the surveillance system and campaign monitoring were
analyzed at the federal level to identify population age groups, districts and areas and
communities at the sub-district level that were not being effectively reached and strategies
developed to improve coverage. For example the finding of a higher percentage of confirmed
cases of polio among children below one year of age lead to specific measures to access infants
including increased recruitment of females in vaccination teams and involvement of local
volunteers. In another instance in response to information of active circulation of the poliovirus
in Sanghar district in Central Sindh that comprises a significant Hindu population, actions were
taken to hire local teams, participate in community festivals and involve community leaders in
the campaign.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environment: The project was rated Category C.

Financial Management: Since IDA funds were transferred directly to UNICEF the Government
was not directly involved in the management and accounting of funds and therefore not required
to submit audited financial statements. The implementing agency was required to provide:
quarterly financial management reports (sources and use of funds) including OPV received and
its utilization; and OPV arrival reports. These reports were submitted irregularly and with



                                                    7

considerable delays. As a result project performance with respect to financial management was
unsatisfactory in the initial year but improved overtime and was rated partially satisfactory by the
end of the operation.

Procurement: OPV was procured through a single sole source contract between UNICEF and
GOP using UNICEF procedures. There were no significant procurement issues.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

A follow-on project, the Second Partnership for Polio Eradication became effective in March
2006. The Credit of US$46.7 million will finance the procurement of OPV required for the
period from 2006 to 2007. UNICEF and WHO will continue to provide technical and financial
support to the other components of the Program. In addition to indicators used for the first
project, key performance indicators also include the number of confirmed polio cases reported.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project objective was well defined and consistent with national and global needs of polio
eradication and continues to be relevant today. The Government's health strategy as outlined in
the PRSP 2001 and reflected in the Medium Term Development Framework 2005-10 for
implementing the PRSP focused on strengthening preventive health including immunization,
communicable disease control (CDC), maternal and child health and family planning. The project
was also consistent with the goals of CAS reports of 2002 and 2006 of supporting pro-poor
policies and health sector priorities on immunization and CDC.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

Pakistan made major advances toward polio eradication during the project period. Polio cases
fell markedly from 103 in 2003 to 28 in 2005 indicating an annual decline of 50%. The
effectiveness of eradication efforts is further reflected in the geographical restriction and decrease
in genotypes of wild poliovirus circulation. Another indication of the diminishing intensity of
transmission is that the seasonal peak in polio cases noted in previous years did not occur in
2005. The above results are based on a surveillance system that surpasses international standards
for quality and timeliness of reporting as elaborated in Section 7.3.

                      Table 1: Polio Cases by Type and Number of Districts
 Year                  Poliovirus type      Poliovirus type       No. of total       No. of districts
                               1                   3                 cases              infected
 2002                 67                  23                     90                 33
 2003                 72                  31                    103                 49
 2004                 44                    9                    53                 29
 2005                 27                    1                    28                 18



                                                   8

The decline in polio cases reflects the successful strategies adopted by the program including a
strong focus on using surveillance and monitoring data to identify and target high risk areas,
communication and social mobilization initiatives including mass media campaigns and
involvement of civil administration, community leaders and other influentials at the local level.
The Program also introduced Monovalent type 1 vaccine (mOPV1) in mid-2005 for enhancing
the impact of eradication activities. The mOPV1 is a faster and more potent vaccine but its use
needs to be flexible and responsive to the epidemiology of the disease. Its introduction was
opportune since at the time a single type of wild poliovirus (type 1) was in circulation in all but
one district.

The project contributed significantly to maintaining the momentum of the campaign by ensuring
requisite supply of OPV through UNICEF. During 2003-2005 it financed the procurement of
371 million doses of OPV enabling an intensification of the polio eradication campaign; the
number of NIDS/SNIDS increased from four to seven per year. A total of 16 NIDs/SNIDs and
two mop-up operations were undertaken during the project period and of these 12 NIDS/SNIDs
and one mop-up operation were undertaken using OPV financed by IDA. Roughly 30 million
children were immunized in each round.

                      Table 2: Average Coverage of NIDs/SNIDs 2003-2006

                                         Post Campaign Monitoring                         CES
   Provinces/Region           2003            2004            2005         2006           2006
                                                                           April          April
         Punjab                96              97              98            98             98
         Sindh                 95              97              97            97             98
         NWFP                  93              97              97            96             96
      Balochistan              93              97              96            96             95
          AJK                  94              95              97            93             98
    Northern Areas             96              97              98            100            97
          ICT                  --              92              94            96             99
         Total                 95              96              97            97             96

Coverage and quality of SIAs was high. Post campaign data of the SIAs conducted during 2003-
2005 indicate that despite the increase in number of SIAs the coverage rate for children less than
five years of age (annual average of NIDs/SNID) was maintained above 90% for all
provinces/regions during the period. The findings of the third party EPI Coverage Evaluation
Survey (CES) undertaken in April 2006 indicate 96% coverage nationally, 98% each in Punjab
and Sindh, 96% in NWFP and 95% in Balochistan. Here it should be note that the CES sample
comprised children less than two years of age while the target group for the polio campaign was
children less than five years. Since analysis of campaign monitoring and surveillance data had
indicated lower levels of coverage for children aged less than one year of age, the bias is likely to
be towards more conservative estimates of coverage for the target group of children. The
findings of both data sources clearly indicate that the performance target of 80% coverage for
children under five had been surpassed.

On the basis of the high quality and coverage of SIAs, the WHO Performance Audit concluded
that the Pakistan Polio Eradication Project had achieved its objective. Given the changes in the
global supply and demand situation for vaccines, the target for timely delivery of vaccines was
not considered feasible and in any case the failure to meet the performance goal had no impact on
implementation of SIAs.



                                                  9

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Efficiency is rated substantial. The effective implementation of the project enabled increased
number of SIAs with overall coverage of above 95% as opposed to the target of 80% resulting in
a substantial decline in incidence of polio over the period.

Normal cost benefit analysis does not easily apply to disease eradication particularly at the
country level. While the costs of eradicating polio are high in relation to the low burden of
disease, the benefits of successful eradication are infinite extending globally across generations.

The global burden of disease if eradication is not achieved would be substantial. According to
WHO estimates there would be 10.6 million cases world wide representing the loss of 60 million
DALYS (discounted at 3%) nearly all of which would occur in low income countries. In addition
to elimination of the burden of disability and mortality due to polio, savings from averted
treatment and rehabilitation costs after polio has been eradicated globally are estimated by WHO
to be higher than US$1 billion annually.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The development objective was well defined, addressed national and global needs and continues
to be relevant. The project financing ensured the requisite supply of OPV to enable
intensification of SIAs. Although the performance target of delivery of vaccines five weeks prior
to SIAs was not strictly met due to reasons beyond the Government's control (as elaborated in
Section 7.2, Annexes 11 and 13), all SIAs scheduled during the project period were held as
planned and there was no shortages of vaccines in any SIA. Thus, the ultimate objective of
ensuring adequate and timely supply of OPV at the point of use during the SIAs was attained.
The SIAs achieved on average a coverage rate of 96% of the target population as assessed by
campaign monitoring data and validated by an independent coverage evaluation survey. The
sustained high coverage and good quality of the SIAs was reflected in the continued sharp
decline of polio cases during the project period. The achievement was particularly notable in the
context of the worsening security situation in Pakistan and on the Afghan border.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

As noted in Section 6.4 the project especially benefited poor and disadvantaged children who are
most vulnerable to polio due to unsanitary and crowded living condition and whose
immunization coverage tends to be the lowest. The NIDs and SNIDS specifically targeted remote
and underprivileged areas through strategies adapted to local socio-cultural contexts. The
program worked effectively with Lady Health Workers, a cadre of community level outreach
workers, to reach the poor and most vulnerable families and ensure that all children, both boys
and girls, under the age of five years were immunized. In addition house to house immunization
and the emphasis on including women in vaccination teams was aimed at accessing households
and communities with stringent norms of seclusion and restrictions to female mobility.



                                                 10

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

A substantial number of health professionals have been trained in managing large scale
campaigns and capacities have been built in public health planning, logistics, managing
community based interventions, epidemiology, communications and social mobilization. The
human resource base will eventually strengthen the health system and the implementation of
other public health interventions.

An effective AFP surveillance system has been established and between 40,000 to 50,000
workers trained in various aspects of surveillance. A base has been set for expansion to other
diseases and efforts are already underway in some areas to incorporate measles and neonatal
tetanus into the system although these are limited to reporting of numbers. Planning has been
initiated for a more systematic transition of the polio surveillance into the mainstream health
system.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The view that SIAs divert resources and attention and therefore adversely affect routine
immunization coverage is not borne out by the project experience. In the initial period of the mid-
nineties, the introduction of SIAs had coincided with slow growing or stagnant immunization
rates. However, in the recent period immunization rates have also risen significantly; the
proportion of fully immunized children aged between 11 to 23 months increased from 53% in
2000/01 to 77% in 2004/05. The improvement in routine immunization could be attributable to
several factors including the substantial increase in resource allocation for the routine
immunization program as well as the rapid expansion of Lady Health Workers, outreach workers,
whose number increased from 30,000 to 92,000 from 2000 to 2005. It is also likely that the
capacity for micro-planning and managing large campaigns could have been applied with some
success to routine immunization efforts.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

A summary of the findings of a coverage evaluation survey conducted in May/June 2006
comprising a sample of 144,000 children less than two years of age is provided in Section 8.2.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The risks to development outcomes are low. Although the program faces important challenges,
these risks will likely be mitigated by continued political support, financial commitments,
effective institutional arrangements and social mobilization strategy and technical support from
development partners.

The key challenges facing the polio program are: (i) constrained access in some areas of the
country due to security concerns; and (ii) increasing prevalence of polio in Southern Afghanistan
and high mobility of populations across the border. These risks will be addressed in the follow-on
polio operation and the continued commitment nationally and internationally to the Polio
Eradication Initiative.



                                                  11

Financing for the Program of roughly US$100 million has been mobilized for the period from
2006 to 2008 including IDA support of US$46.7 million through the Second Partnership of the
Polio Eradication Project. In the event that transmission is not halted during the period UNICEF
and WHO are committed to supporting the Polio Eradication Initiative over a longer term. The
Government of Pakistan has demonstrated its to commitment to strengthening routine
immunization coverage including polio through considerable increase in resources for the
program that have risen from Rs. 600 million in 2000 to Rs. 1.2 billion allocated for the current
fiscal year.

The existing institutional arrangements that have worked effectively will continue over the next
phase of SIAs. These include a high quality surveillance system and close coordination between
the Program, international agencies, NGOs and other partners.

There is widespread awareness of polio immunization across the country. The Program will
continue to focus on social mobilization, involvement of community influentials

including religious leaders and increasing the number of women in the vaccination teams.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

Project preparation with participation of WHO and UNICEF was completed in record time (less
than six months from concept review to signing of the Credit agreement) in response to the urgent
need for financing of vaccine requirements for the polio campaign. The preparation included field
visits and discussions with provincial governments to assess commitment to polio eradication at
the provincial level. As part of the review process, a formal review of the Project Concept
Document chaired by the Country Director with participation of representatives of UNICEF,
WHO, peer reviewers and Bank staff was held on January 13, 2003. Since the project was
supporting a fully developed and well functioning Program no technical papers or studies were
commissioned.

The design incorporated lessons from earlier operations and was based on a realistic assessment
of the capacity of the implementing agency with adequate attention to the comparative advantage
of development partners. A weakness of the design related to the choice of the performance
indicator of delivery time of vaccines that as subsequent events indicated was beyond the control
of the Government or UNICEF

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Supervisions were conducted semi-annually with participation of development partners and
procurement and financial management specialists. The task team leader was based
in Islamabad and provided on-going support as required. The supervision reports focused on
achievement of development objectives and identified and followed up on key issues that mostly


                                                 12

pertained to fiduciary aspects of implementation. The project ratings of achievement of
development objectives were appropriate and substantiated by consistently high levels of
coverage of SIAs and sharply declining incidence of polio. The Bank team responded promptly to
requests for supplementary financing and the follow-on Second Polio Partnership Project
approved in September 2006 ensured that the accelerated pace of the polio eradication initiative
was maintained.

Nonetheless there were some oversights. The team did not sufficiently highlight the project's
inability to meet the performance target for delivery of vaccines. Greater attention to verifying
the arrival time of vaccines through alternate sources of information would have indicated that the
target was not feasible and needed to be adjusted in line with the global scenario of supply and
demand of vaccines. At the same time it should be noted that despite the fact that the vaccines
did not arrive within the stipulated time the ultimate objective of ensuring adequate and timely
supply of OPV at the point of use during the SIAs was achieved.

Another issue related to the payments for the procurement of OPV. According to the contract
with UNICEF, IDA was to finance vaccine costs, freight and handling charges. However, due to
an oversight, disbursement for two consignments included payments for a contingency buffer that
was not covered in the agreement with UNICEF. Corrective action was taken promptly and it
was verified subsequently that these funds were used for eligible expenditures.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory due to: swift preparation of the original credit,
supplemental financing and follow-on operation; excellent coordination with development
partners throughout the process; development of an innovative yet simple design; and ensuring a
focus on the development objective and outcomes during supervision.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

There was strong Government commitment at all levels to the polio eradication goal reflected in
successful implementation of multiple nationwide immunization rounds that entailed organization
and mobilization of enormous human and financial resources. Each round of NID involved over
700,000 personnel of whom the majority were outside the health sector. Resources were
generated through external support including IDA supplemental financing and the follow-on
operation as well as from other partners. Government financing for human resources and
associated recurrent costs was estimated to contribute roughly half of Program costs. The
visibility of high level political and government functionaries during NIDs helped raised the
profile of the campaign and awareness of polio eradication nationwide.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency                 Performance

Expnaded Program       Implementation of the project was timely, well managed with very effective
on Immunization,       coordination with development partners. SIAs were carried out as planned


                                                  13

Ministry of Health    with 96% coverage of the target population resulting in a remarkable
                      decline in polio cases during the period. The effective use of monitoring
                      and surveillance contributed significantly to improved coverage and quality
                      of SIAs and decrease in polio incidence.

                      The successful execution of the Program reflected the considerable
                      leadership and logistical abilities of the implementing agency in mobilizing
                      and coordinating across a range of tasks including training, advocacy,
                      micro-planning, supervision and administration of OPV, cold chain
                      maintenance, transportation of vaccines, mass media campaigns, social
                      mobilization and IEC at the community level.

                      A shortcoming of the performance related to irregular and delayed
                      submission of financial management reports and vaccine arrival and
                      utilization reports. In addition there were discrepancies in the information
                      on vaccine arrival time as noted in arrival reports and in records of EPI
                      stores.

                      However, monitoring and surveillance reports were regularly provided and
                      used for decision making.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Borrower performance is rated satisfactory for the reasons summarized in Sections 10.2 a & b.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The project experience reiterates the lessons from earlier operations including of: simplicity of
design, use of existing implementation structures and close collaboration among the government
and development partners.

Most importantly it underscores the central role in disease eradication of a strong
monitoring and surveillance system that provides: timely and reliable data; regular analysis and
dissemination of information; and utilization of results at all levels to guide strategy, planning
and implementation. Substantial external support in terms of technical and financial resources
was necessary to develop the system and create demand across the board of the value of data for
effective management.

While eradication was a shared national and global goal, the buy-down mechanism by
providing potential grant support was instrumental in encouraging the Government,
particularly the Ministry of Finance, to accelerate the eradication campaign involving
mobilization of massive human and financial resources. By rewarding performance it created
incentives for program management at the federal and provincial level for a greater focus
on results.

The mechanism can be potentially replicated to areas with strong externalities, convergence of
global and national priorities and substantial resource requirements including programs such as
immunization against measles, HIV and TB control programs that are central to attaining MDGs.


                                                 14

The key prerequisite to successful adoption of the buy-down mechanism or more
broadly performance based financing is the identification of clearly measurable, feasible
indicators that are largely within the control of the implementing agency and a credible
monitoring system that provides timely information.

In the Pakistan context, the monitoring and surveillance of the polio program was well
established prior to the project and is exceptional to health programs. Performance based
financing can create incentives for developing such systems but more is required in terms of
coordinated efforts by development partners to advocate for and support the process
technically and financially.

Project specific lessons:

The performance indicator for timely arrival of vaccines was not within the control of the
implementing agency and the target was not feasible given the changes in the global context. It
might be more appropriate to use indicators such as for the quality of AFP surveillance that
are important and within the control of the implementing agency.

The independent coverage evaluation survey needs to be geared more specifically to the
requirements of the polio program. While integrating polio in the assessment of routine
immunization coverage is justifiable on cost efficiency grounds, careful attention is required to
ensure that the information is relevant and comparable including in the selection of the age group
of 0-5 years that is the target population for the polio campaign.

Provincial coverage rates hide variation in district coverage and polio risks. In this context it
might be worth exploring the potential of setting coverage targets for a selected set of low
coverage and high risk districts. The requisite data are available at the district level through
the surveillance and the campaign monitoring system. Some form of performance based rewards
through transfers from the federal government to districts that meet targets could also be piloted
to create incentives to improve coverage. Careful attention would be required to avoid the risk of
perverse incentives.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Government's Completion Report was included in Annex 10 of the draft ICR. No further
comments were received from the Government on the draft ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

Comments of co-financiers were included in Annex 11 and the Executive Summary of the WHO
Audit Report in Annex 13 of the draft ICR. No further comments on the draft ICR were received
from co-financiers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                  15

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project objective is to support the supply to the Government of Pakistan (GoP) of 50% of the
Oral Polio Vaccine needed for Supplemental Immunization Activities during 2003-2005. This is
an input into the GoP's program to eradicate Poliomyelitis.

The following two indicators were used to measure project performance:
     Timely arrival of the OPV at the central stores of GoP's Expanded Program of
        Immunization (EPI) in Islamabad at least five weeks before each of the SIAs; and
     SIA coverage of 80% achieved in the targeted population (children below 5 years of age)
        in each of the four provinces during 2005.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                               Original Target Values      Formally     Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator        Baseline
                    Value          (from approval       Revised Target     at Completion or
                                     documents)            Values             Target Years
Indicator 1 : OPV immunization coverage of SIAs in remaining endemic provinces
Value
(quantitative or95%            80% in 2005                             96%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2003 12/31/2005                                    06/30/2006
Comments        Coverage in the provinces was: 98% in Punjab and Sindh, 96% in NWFP and
(incl. %        95% in Balochistan. The project was able to sustain high levels of coverage
achievement) despite security issues in parts of the country.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                          Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

  Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                             approval         Revised         Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Procurement of UNICEF certified OPV and delivery to GOP's Expanded
                 program on Immunization for use in SIAs

Value            Supply of vaccine in
(quantitative or 3weeks before          Supply of vaccine 5                Supply of vaccine 16
                                        weeks prior to SIA                 days before the
Qualitative)     September 2003
                 round                  rounds in 2005                     November 2005 round

Date achieved 09/30/2003                12/31/2005                         11/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %         Achievement: None of the consignment of vaccines financed by IDA arrived

achievement)     within the stipulated time.




                                                 16

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     17

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


         Components            Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of
                                   (USD M)               (USD M)           Appraisal
ORAL POLIO VACCINE
PROCUREMENT                                40.80                  76.20          186.76

            Total Baseline Cost            40.80                  76.20
Physical Contingencies                       0.00
Price Contingencies                          0.00
            Total Project Costs            40.80
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                   0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                   0.00           0.00
    Total Financing Required               40.80                  76.20


(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal
        Source of Funds           Type of                   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                Cofinancing     Estimate
                                               (USD M)    Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

  Borrower                                            0.00             0.08
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                          20.00            42.69      213.45
ASSOCIATION
JAPAN: JAPAN
INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION AGENCY                                   16.00            31.05      194.06

(JICA)
UN CHILDREN'S FUND                                    4.80             2.38       49.58




                                          18

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            19

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

The project had a single component: the procurement of part of OPV supplies needed for
eradication campaigns to immunize children below five years. IDA financed the procurement of
about 54% of the OPV needed to carry out SIAs during the period from 2003-2005. The vaccines
were procured under an agreement between GOP and UNICEF using UNICEF procedures.

Progress on output indicators for the component as outlined in the project appraisal document is
given below:

(i) Procurement of UNICEF certified OPV and delivery to GoP's Expanded Program on
Immunization for use in the SIAs; five weeks before each round of SIAs. The project did not
meet the delivery time target due to unforeseen changes in the global supply and demand for
OPV. The reasons are elaborated in Section 7.2.
(ii) Timeliness of Government's request for funds; first request within three weeks of credit
effectiveness and each subsequent request six months prior to each round of SIAs. Government's
request for funds was received within the stipulated time i.e. six months prior to each round of
SIAs.
(iii) Timeliness of disbursement of IDA funds to UNICEF for OPV procurement: Within three
weeks of receipt of GoP request. IDA funds were disbursed within three weeks of GoP request.




                                                20

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

Net present value/economic rate of return were not estimated at project appraisal or for this ICR
since the benefit is largely a global public health good.




                                                  21

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
        Names                   Title                 Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Amie E. Batson         Sr Health Spec.        HDNHE
Inaam Haq              Sr Health Spec.        SASHD
Jagmohan S. Kang       Sr PHN Spec.           SASHD
Laura M. Kiang         Operations Officer     SASHD
Supervision/ICR
Asif Ali               Sr Procurement Spec.   SARPS
Anwar Ali Bhatti       Financial Analyst      SACPK
Inaam Haq              Sr Health Spec.        SASHD
Shahnaz Kazi           Senior Economist       SASHD

Hasan Saqib            Sr Financial
                       Management Specia      SARFM


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived            DO               IP       Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   09/05/2003            Satisfactory         Satisfactory                         0.00
2   11/14/2003            Satisfactory         Satisfactory                         8.85
3   05/13/2004            Satisfactory         Satisfactory                        19.99
4   11/25/2004            Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory                        20.89
5   04/19/2005            Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory                        35.79
6   10/03/2005            Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory                        42.04




                                             22

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                              USD Thousands
                                          No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY03                                                      4.94
                    FY04                                                      0.27
                    FY05                                                      0.00
                    FY06                                                      0.00
                    FY07                                                      0.00
                                    Total                                     5.21
Supervision/ICR
                    FY03                                                      0.00
                    FY04                                  12                 13.92
                    FY05                                  11                 13.68
                    FY06                                    6                11.06
                    FY07                                    6                 9.61
                                    Total                 35                 48.27




                                       23

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         24

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Survey results are presented in Section 8.2.




                                             25

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  26

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                          Federal EPI Cell
                                   National Institute of Health
                                              Islamabad
                                                *****

                 Pakistan Partnership for Polio Eradication Project (P081909)

                               Implementation Completion Report

Introduction and Back ground

Pakistan Polio Eradication Initiative had been a major national effort since 1994, and has been
supported by several donors. WHO and UNICEF are the lead technical partners for polio
eradication globally and in Pakistan. Through them, the donors are providing grant funds for the
operations, surveillance and vaccine costs. At the time of development of "Pakistan Partnership
for Polio Eradication through IDA Buy Down", additional US$20.0 million were needed to meet
the vaccine requirements for 2003-2005. IDA agreed to meet this gap through a normal credit
that is reduced to grant funding through an innovative IDA Buy-down mechanism.

Following an appeal from the Global Polio Eradication Technical Advisory Committee, the
World Bank in partnership with the Gates Foundation (GF), Rotary International (RI) and UN
Foundation, has developed the IDA Buy-down financing mechanism to support intensified polio
eradication activities in polio-endemic countries. A Polio Eradication Trust Fund to be financed
by GF and RI and managed by the World Bank has been established. The Trust Fund will pay the
service fee for the Credit during the implementation and buy down the net present value of the
IDA Credit, reducing it to grant terms, when the projects are successfully completed. Thus IDA
Credit to Pakistan will in effect be a grant for polio eradication.

Project information

Following is the selected data pertaining to Pakistan Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
(Also referred as 1st IDA Buy Down Project for Polio Eradication Pakistan )

 Board Approval ( Original)                               May 15, 2003
 Board approval ( Supplemental)                           October 14, 2004
 Effectiveness date (Original)                            August 07, 2003
 Effective ness date ( Supplemental)                      January 06, 2005
 Closing date                                             June 30, 2006
 Original Credit Amount                                   US$20.000 million
 Revised Credit Amount                                    US$40.510 million
 Amount disbursed                                         US$42.940 million

Key Performance Indicators

The following two indicators and their means of verification were agreed to be used to measure
project performance:




                                                  27

                                 Indicator                                 Means of verification
 1       Timely arrival of OPV at the Central Store of GOP's         EPI's Vaccine Arrival Reports
         Expanded Programme on Immunization, Islamabad,
         i.e., at least five weeks before each of SIAs

 2       SIA coverage of 80% achieved in the remaining               Cluster Sampling Survey
         endemic provinces during 2005.                              according to WHO approved
                                                                     Methodology.

Achievement of Development Objectives

The project purpose was to assist GOP in eradicating Poliomyelitis. The objective was to finance
and provide about 50% of the oral polio vaccine (OPV), needed during 2003-05 and monitors its
effective use in the country's Supplementary Immunization Activities (SIAs). Pakistan has made
significant efforts towards Polio Eradication. As a result, the numbers of confirmed Polio cases
decreased substantially from 104 in 2003 to only 28 in 2005 (an overall reduction of 73%). Only
12 Polio cases have been reported in the first six months of 2006. The number of confirmed polio
cases has decreased substantially in all provinces. Although low intensity virus transmission
persists in parts of northern Sindh, Southern NWFP and Southern Punjab, virus transmission has
not been reported in other parts of NWFP and Balochistan and an extended virus free period has
been observed in Punjab. There has been no case reported in AJK and FATA for last four years.
Based on these facts Pakistan is likely to interrupt transmission of wild polio virus during 2007
and achieve Polio eradication in next three years.

The project implementation was completed by December 2005 with full disbursement and
utilization of original and supplementary credit. The Project financed more than 50% of OPV for
Polio Eradication during 2003-2005 through the original and supplementary credit. The overall
performance of the project was found to be highly satisfactory by the Bank mission (Pakistan :
Partnership for Polio Eradication Project (P089109) ICR Mission Aide Memoire, June 27-30,
2006). On the request of the Government of Pakistan, the Bank has approved a follow on project,
"Polio Eradication 2nd Project through IDA Buy Down" to finance the procurement of additional
OPV required during 2006-2007.The second credit was made effective on in March, 2006.

During the project period 14 rounds of National Immunization Days (NIDs), 2 sub national
immunization days (SNIDs) and 2 mop-up rounds were undertaken, immunizing about 488
million children. The project through procurement and distribution of OPV through UNICEF
contributed significantly to ensuring timely availability of vaccine for each round. Pakistan has
successfully met the challenge of preparing, implementing, and evaluating multiple, nationwide
immunization rounds while maintaining and improving quality of SIA with an average coverage
of 96% during the project period. SIA monitoring has provided quick feedback to identify low-
performing areas and rectify problems during the round under implementation or for more
effective planning of the next round.

AFP surveillance has remained sensitive and has improved overall in Pakistan. Surveillance
quality is measured by two primary indicators: (i) the non polio AFP rate (at least one non polio
AFP case per 100,000 persons aged <15 years); and (ii) the completeness and timeliness of stool-
specimen collection (at least 80% of AFP cases with two adequate stool specimens collected
from patients within 14 days of paralysis onset). Both indicators were at target values or higher at
the national and provincial levels. Overall AFP surveillance in Pakistan meets or exceeds WHO


                                                  28

performance-indicator targets in most areas and is continuously reviewed to detect quality gaps
and respond to them quickly. The social mobilization and communication strategy continue to
maintain awareness and knowledge among the mass audiences through

mass media, including newspapers, radio and television, and intensified inter personal
communication in high risk districts through use of District Social Mobilization teams.

Assessment of the Key Performance Indicators

OPV Procurement: UNICEF was disbursed US$42,942,046.70 for procurement of OPV.
UNICEF procured and made available to GOP about 371.074 million doses of OPV using IDA
funds. Of the total amount disbursed to UNICEF, it is estimated that UNICEF has utilized
US$42,696,128.24 for supply of OPV till December 2005. The unspent amount by UNICEF will
be adjusted in due course of time. All the vaccine delivered by UNICEF was made available to
the provincial and district offices prior to planned SIAs.

As per practice and factual position mentioned above, it is proposed that this indicator may be
relaxed and linked with the implementation of SIAs without any shortage of vaccine or vaccine
arrival atleast two weeks prior to SIAs. As per requirement, WHO external team did
performance audit for Pakistan partnership of Polio Eradication Project - 1 from August 28 to
September 5, 2006 with the purpose to measure the results of the two indicators which are the
timely arrival of the Oral Polio Vaccine (OPV) at the central stores of the Expanded Programme
on Immunization (EPI) and the OPV coverage (Target: 80%) of Supplemental Immunization
Activities (SIAs) at Federal and provincial level.

In regard to timely arrival of polio vaccine, the audit team reviewed various documents related
with the ordering, procurement and arrival of OPV consignments in Islamabad during 2003 to
2005 that were financed by the World Bank/ IDA Buy-down project. The audit team found that
the vaccine had arrived from 12 to 34 days before the SIAs of 2003 - 2005. Out of 24 shipments
only one shipment arrived 64 days and 6 shipments between 30  34 days before SIAs. The Audit
Team did detailed discussion with concerned staff at Federal EPI and UNICEF, and was
convinced that the delay was largely due to an unforeseen increase in demand of polio vaccine
and shortage of supply at the global level from 2003 onwards. The Government of Pakistan and
UNICEF were not responsible for the delayed arrival of vaccine. It was also found that all the
SIAs scheduled for 2003, 2004 and 2005 were conducted as planned and there was no shortage of
vaccine which was encountered in any of the SIAs anywhere in the country. The audit team was
also of the view that the target set in 2003 was ambitious and unachievable in view of the
external factors.

Cluster Sample Survey

A district level EPI Coverage Evaluation Survey was undertaken by an independent third party
i.e., M/S Contech International Health Consultants, Lahore during 2006. The third party was
selected through a competitive bidding process as per GOP rules, in consultation with EPI
partners.

Data from 4,540 clusters were to be collected, by the trained data collectors of the third party.
There were two types of data collection forms, Form A for Infant Immunization 12-23 months
and Form B for Tetanus Toxoid immunization of mother of 0-11 month child. Both the forms




                                                  29

used in the field were in Urdu. A total of 140,400 forms were to be filled. The details are shown
below:


 Summary of Sample Size EPI-CES 2006


                          District
                          category      Total       Total       12 to 23     0 to 11      Total
  S/No      Province

                         A     B    C   District    Clusters    S. Size      S. Size      S. Size


 1         Punjab        25    6    3   34             1,140     22,430        23,350        45,780


 2         Sindh         7     8    1   16              580        9,410       10,000        19,410


 3         NWFP          8     10   6   24              940      14,950        11,280        26,230


 4         FATA          0     5    2   7               300        4,200        4,130          8,330


 5         FANA          1     3    1   5               200        3,480        1,770          5,250


 6         AJK           6     1    0   7               220        2,390        4,840          7,230


 7         Balochistan   6     6    14  26             1,120     16,590        10,100        26,690


 8         Islamabad     0     1    0   1                 40         800          680          1,480


                            53    40  27        120    4,540     74,250        66,150       140,400



The form A had specific questions (No 22 to 25) regarding the polio drops received during the
last SIA. These were to assess the following:

Q 22:    Gender of the child

Q 23:    If the child received polio drops in the last SIA.

Q23:     Place of receiving polio drops (home/EPI center/school/mosque/road sides/community
center/other, etc).

Q25:     If polio drops were not given the reasons for the same. (No team came/child was
sick/child was sleeping/child has completed the course of vaccination/polio drops are not
necessary/polio campaign is not safe/child was in journey/any other reasons).

The clusters were obtained through Federal Bureau of Statistics and no person from the
provincial/district health department were involved in the this exercise to ensure transparency of
the result.

The data was collected during May 19 to June 18, 2006 as per WHO approved methodology. All
the technical aspects of the survey were closely monitored by MOH in close collaboration with
WHO and UNICEF. Out of 120 districts, data from four districts/agencies i.e. South and North
Waziristan, Dera Bugti and Kohlu could not be collected because of security and administrative
reasons. In all information on 72,420 form A and 65,350 form B was collected which amounts to



                                                 30

98% of the planned 140,400 forms A and forms B. In terms of clusters data from 4395 clusters
was collected as against planned from 4540 meaning thereby that 96.8% of the planned clusters
were reach.

During this exercise 02 SIAs were conducted. Therefore the data collected regarding polio drops
pertain to one NIDs from April 4 to 6, 2006 in 131 districts and a Mop-up round from May 7 to
9, 2006 in 42 districts. However, the overall preliminary results of OPV coverage in the last SIAs
were above 96% which is much above the required level of 80%. Although this data is for the
children from 12 to 23 months of age it can be considered for the total target children because of
its huge volume and adherence to statistical principals in identifying the sample.

Based on the above it is evident that both the key performance indicators of the project were
achieved.




                                                31

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

UNICEF Views on Global OPV Supply Situation

UNICEF Supply Division has commented on the Buy Down delivery criteria to WB, WHO and
the relevant Governments on various occasions during the last couple of years. The essential
characteristics of the OPV market communicated in that correspondence can be summarized as
follows:

While we note that a substantial amount of deliveries have complied with the buy down delivery
criteria, we also note that the global OPV supply-demand situation has been particularly
challenging over the last 2-3 years following (i) epidemiological factors and related increasing
demand; and (ii) introduction of mOPV1.

Epidemiological factors: Following a number of polio outbreaks, the global OPV demand has
been 30-50% higher than estimated by the Global Program during the last 2-3 years and has
resulted in close to 100% utilization of the global production capacity. Given the need to respond
to outbreaks it has been difficult - from a planning as well as from an ethical point of view - to
ensure sufficient buffer stock to comply with the delivery buy down criteria at all times. Rather
than postponing activities to be in compliance (i.e., products in the country 5 weeks prior to
activity) UNICEF Supply Division in consultation with the Global and the National Programmes,
has been focusing on 'just in time deliveries' utilizing products as soon as released by the
National Release Authorities and at the same time allowing sufficient time for inland distribution.

Introduction of mOPV1: mOPV1 was introduced from mid 2005 as a more potent vaccine for
type specific campaign response. Beside complicating the manufacturers production planning
(mOPV1 is competing with tOPV on the same production lines) countries have had a tendency to
await the epidemiological development till the last moment in order to optimize and determine
whether mOPV1 or tOPV should be used for the campaigns. Therefore at times, the campaign
schedule and campaigns products are known less than two months prior to activities. As such, the
planning pre requisite for the buy down delivery criteria has been undermined by programmatic
requirements and rationale.

WHO comments on OPV Supplies

WHO noted that the following factors that complicated supply for Pakistan:

1.        The accurate size of activities (SNIDs) being uncertain until fairly close to the activities
themselves, due to epidemiology altering plans.

2.        The optimal mix of tOPV versus mOPV, again based on epidemiological developments,
that often changed from original ideas.

3.        The general status of demand globally, which led to UNICEF Copenhagen juggling
emergency demands and planned demands and trying to deal with both.

None of these factors were due to programme planning failures in Pakistan, or in Copenhagen,
but were rather the result of the need to be flexible due to changes in epidemiology and factors in




                                                  32

global demand and supply. All planned activities in Pakistan were carried out, in addition to
which smaller focused mop-ups were carried out at fairly short notice.

In retrospect the WHO finds that the UNICEF Supply Division has done a superb job in ensuring
that vaccines were pretty much always available in countries that needed them, including
Pakistan, despite the difficulties encountered during these last two years.




                                                33

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Pakistan. Expanded Program for Immunization. Surveillance Unit. Surveillance
Bulletin 2003-2006
Government of Pakistan. Expanded Program for Immunization. NID Monitoring Reports 2003-
2006.
Government of Pakistan. Federal Bureau of Statistics. 2006. Pakistan Social and Living
Standards Measurement Survey 2004-0 5.
Government of Pakistan. Federal Bureau of Statistic. 2002. Pakistan Integrated Household
Survey 2000-01.
World Bank. 2003. Project Appraisal Document: Pakistan Partnership for Polio Eradication.
Report No.25461-PK
World Bank. 2005. Pakistan Public Health Surveillance System: A Call to Action.
World Bank. 2006. Pakistan Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), for FY06-09. Report No.
35718-PAK.
World Bank. 2003. Pakistan Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), for FY03-06.
World Bank. Project Status Reports (PSRs), 2003-2004
World Bank. Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) 2005-2006
World Bank. Aide-Memoires and Bank to Office Reports 2003-2006
World Health Organization. 2006. Performance Audit Report of Pakistan Partnership for Polio
Eradication Project




                                             34

Annex 13. Additional Annexes
13.1 Annex 13. WHO Performance Audit Report of the Polio Eradication Project:
Executive Summary

Following the World Health Assembly's decision in 1988 to establish the goal of eradicating
poliomyelitis, activities related to Polio Eradication Initiative commenced in Pakistan in a
systematic manner in 1994. Since that time the country has made substantial progress towards
achieving this goal as evident by the decrease in the total number of polio cases dropping from a
high of 1803 in 1994 to 28 in 2005 and 16 in 2006 (as on August 27).

The polio eradication strategy has closely followed the globally formulated strategies which rely
on strengthening routine immunization, establishment of a nation wide system of surveillance for
cases of acute flaccid paralysis in children under the age of 15 years and implementation of
supplementary immunization activities (SIAs) in children under the age of five years to boost
immunity against polioviruses.

In order to provide financial support for SIAs (which are a corner stone of the polio eradication
initiative in Pakistan in view of the low routine coverage with OPV) the World Bank/IDA
approved the Partnership for Polio Eradication Project in 2003 with an IDA buy down
mechanism. The project was specifically aimed at covering the cost of procurement of OPV for
use in SIAs. The 'Buy-down mechanism' is designed to convert a normal IDA credit into a grant
if the project achieves its objectives, in which case repayments of the credits are taken care of by
an external donor or a third party, in this case the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

For IDA buy down to be triggered, it was agreed that an independent performance audit will be
carried out by WHO as per the global agreement to assess if the targets set in the contract
between IDA and the Government of Pakistan have been successfully achieved. The two target
indicators as mentioned in the project document were: the vaccine should have arrived five
weeks before the SIAs and that coverage with OPV in the SIAs should have been 80% in all the
four provinces of Pakistan as assessed by an independently conducted survey. The Buy down
mechanism would be triggered subject to the Performance Audit determining that the targets
have been successfully achieved

The Government of Pakistan requested WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean
(WHO EMRO) to undertake the performance audit. WHO EMRO arranged for a two person
Mission to carry out the Performance Audit from August 28 to September 5, 2006. The Mission
after being briefed in the WHO EMRO visited Islamabad from August 28 to September 1.
During their visit, the Mission held detailed discussion with national and international staff
working in the polio eradication program, with UNICEF who were responsible for procuring the
OPV and with staff in the World Bank and reviewed a large number of documents and data
detailing various aspects of program activities specially those that related to the two indicators.

The Mission was highly satisfied with the implementation of the national polio eradication
program and with the progress achieved so far. The program has a built-in high quality
monitoring system specially for post campaign monitoring and receives a regular technical
oversight from internationally known experts. The SIAs were being implemented with
consistently high coverage and all the AFP surveillance monitoring indicators have been
maintained above the certification standard over the last five years. The Mission also was




                                                  35

impressed with the degree of high level political commitment and the motivation of the staff
serving in the program.

The Mission reviewed various documents connected with the ordering, procurement and arrival
of OPV consignments in Islamabad during 2003 to 2005 that were financed by the World
bank/IDA project. It was found that none of the consignment had arrived before the stipulated 5
weeks period. After detailed discussions with concerned staff, the Mission was convinced that the
delay was largely due to an unforeseen increase in demand of polio vaccine and shortage of
supply at the global level from 2003 onwards and that the Government of Pakistan and UNICEF
were not responsible for the delayed arrival of vaccine. The Mission was also able to ascertain
that all the SIAs scheduled for 2003, 2004 and 2005, were held as planned and no shortage of
vaccine was encountered in any of the SIAs anywhere in the country. The Mission was of the
view that the target set in 2003 was ambitious and unachievable in view of the external factors
mentioned above and target could, therefore, be considered as having been achieved.

The Mission during its stay was able to review the results of the coverage data for the NID
conducted in April 2006 that was obtained as part of a district level coverage evaluation survey
carried out by an independent consulting firm using WHO Cluster Sampling Technique (2004).
The survey was carried out during May/June 2006 and appeared to be technically well conducted.
The results of the survey showed that coverage during the April NID was well above the target
indicator of 80% in all the endemic provinces.

Based on the above findings the Mission was pleased to conclude that the Performance Audit of
the Pakistan, Partnership of Polio Eradication Project has shown that the targets set in the Project
Appraisal Document between the Government of Pakistan and World Bank/IDA have been
achieved.




                                                36

MAP




       37

