                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2076



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-39080)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.1 MILLION
                       (US$ 30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                            REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

                                     FOR A

          REAL ESTATE CADASTRE AND REGISTRATION PROJECT



                               September 4, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Environmental and Natural Resource Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region




                                        i
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective 03/31/2012)

                    Currency Unit = Serbian dinars (RSD)
                             1.00 = US$ 0.0120
                            US$ 1.00 = 83.555

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGROS     Active Geodetic Reference Network of Serbia
CARDS     Community Assistance for Reconstruction, Development and Stabilization,
          an EU instrument for financial assistance in the Western Balkans
CEM       Country Economic Memorandum
CM        Cadastre Municipality
CORS      Continuously Operating Reference Station
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DCA       Development Credit Agreement (legal agreement)
EC        European Commission
EPN       EUREF Permanent Network
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EU        European Union
EUREF     International Association of Geodesy (IAG) Reference Frame Sub-
          Commission for Europe
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization (of the UN)
FLOSS     Free / Libre Open Source Software
FMR       Financial Management Report
FY        Financial Year
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GIS       Geographic Information System
GNSS      Global Navigation Satellite System
GOS       Government of the Republic of Serbia
GPS       Global Positioning System
ICT       Information and Communications Technologies
IDP       Internally Displaced Persons
INSPIRE   Infrastructure for Spatial Information in Europe, an EU Directive
JICA      Japanese International Cooperation Agency
LAN       Local Area Network
LCO       Local Cadastre Office
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MoF       Ministry of Finance (GOS)
MoJ       Ministry of Justice
MTR       Mid-Term Review


                                      ii
NKOSK      National Mortgage Insurance Corporation of Ministry of Finance
NSDI       National Spatial Data Infrastructure
PIP        Project Implementation Plan
PIU        Project Implementation Unit (within RGZ)
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PAC        Public Awareness Campaign
PDO        Project Development Objective
PHRD       Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
R&D        Research and Development
REC        Real Estate Cadastre
RGZ        Republic Geodetic Authority (GOS)
SOLA       Solutions for Open Land Administration of FAO
SSCR Law   Law on State Land Survey, Cadastre, and Registration of Real Estate
           Rights (1992)
TSS        Transitional Support Strategy for Serbia and Montenegro (World Bank)
WAN        Wide Area Network




                          Vice President: Philippe Le Houérou
                        Country Director: Jane Armitage
                         Sector Manager: Kulsum Ahmed
                    Project Team Leader: Gavin Adlington
                       ICR Team Leader: Johannes de Jong




                                        iii
                               SERBIA
            REAL ESTATE CADASTRE AND REGISTRATION PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 41
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 48
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 50
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 52
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 53
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 56
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57




                                                             iv
                               SERBIA
            REAL ESTATE CADASTRE AND REGISTRATION PROJECT

                                     DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                         Real Estate Cadastre &
Country:                Serbia                  Project Name:            Registration Project
                                                                         (Serbia)
Project ID:             P078311                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-39080
ICR Date:               09/04/2012              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                SERBIA AND
                                                                         MONTENEGRO
Original Total
                        XDR 20.10M              Disbursed Amount:        XDR 19.25M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 20.10M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Republic Geodetic Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/03/2003     Effectiveness:             11/03/2004       11/03/2004
                                                                                 05/24/2010
                                                                                 08/03/2010
Appraisal:            02/09/2004     Restructuring(s):                           08/09/2011
                                                                                 02/01/2012
                                                                                 02/17/2012
Approval:             05/25/2004     Mid-term Review:           02/08/2008       02/08/2008
                                     Closing:                   10/31/2010       03/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


                                                v
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       30                   30
Housing finance                                                        30                   30
Information technology                                                 20                   20
Law and justice                                                         5                     5
Sub-national government administration                                 15                   15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Land administration and management                                     33                   33
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                   17                   17
Other urban development                                                17                   17
Personal and property rights                                           33                   33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                         Orsalia Kalantzapoulos
Sector Manager:            Kulsum Ahmed                          Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:       Gavin P. Adlington                    Lynn C. Holstein


                                                   vi
ICR Team Leader:          Johannes Maria Adrianus De Jong
ICR Primary Author:       Johannes Maria Adrianus De Jong
                          Samantha Ashley De Martino


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project seeks to increase confidence and lower transaction costs by building a more
efficient property registration and cadastre system, with the purpose of contributing to the
development of effective real property markets.

  This will be achieved through two components: Operational Development and Support
(including formation of the real estate cadastre in priority urban areas, support for
secondary transaction system, focused support for the REC in Belgrade, IT systems
modernization, and legal extension services); and Capacity Building and Institutional
Strengthening (including public awareness campaigns, business planning, training, IT
strategy, legal framework completion).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target          Completion or
                                               documents)         Values          Target Years
                Increased number of transactions in land and real estate; increased proportion of
Indicator 1 :
                mortgages.
Value           100,000 transactions,      25% increase over                   127,403
quantitative or including 2.9%             the baseline                        transactions and
Qualitative)    mortgages.                 figures.                            36,495 mortgages.
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   10/31/2010                          12/31/2011
Comments
                Targets achieved; 27% more transactions and 24% are mortgages (is more than
(incl. %
                700% increase for mortgages).
achievement)
                Increased satisfaction of customers with the cadastre and registration services
Indicator 2 :
                provided.
Value
                                           25% increase on
quantitative or 62%                                                            25% increase.
                                           the baseline figure.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2004                   10/31/2010                          12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved; 87% of customers are satisfied with registration services.
achievement)


                                               vii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                Creation of Real Estate Cadastre (REC) for 1940 sq.km. in 50 cities and towns,
Indicator 1 :
                and for 30 cadastral municipalities (CM) in Belgrade.
                                            1,940 sq.km. in
Value                                                                         3,874 sq.km. in
                0 sq.km. in cities and      cities and towns;
(quantitative                                                                 cities and towns; 61
                towns; 1 CM in Belgrade. 37 CMs in
or Qualitative)                                                               CMs in Belgrade.
                                            Belgrade.
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    10/31/2010                        03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target was well exceeded: by 100% in cities and towns; by 65% in Belgrade.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Time taken to register a transaction.
Value                                                                         54% in 5 days or
                More than 60 days
(quantitative                               5 days              5 days        less; 46% between
                (estimate).
or Qualitative)                                                               5 and 10 days.
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    10/31/2010          12/31/2011    03/31/2012
                The average time for the standard service was 7 days, which is very good by
Comments
                international standards and a great improvement. For the 'fast-track' service (for
(incl. %
                clients who are willing to pay more), the 5-day target was reached for all
achievement)
                transactions.
                Cadastre offices retrofitted and improved with new ICT hardware, software and
Indicator 3 :
                infrastructure.
Value                                                                         66 offices equipped
(quantitative   0 offices                   52 offices                        with hardware and
or Qualitative)                                                               infrastructure.
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    10/31/2010                        03/31/2012
Comments
                The new ICT software was not implemented, due to the cancellation of the
(incl. %
                contract. The old software was improved and continues to be used.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Construct, equip and maintain Geodetic Reference Framework.
Value
(quantitative   0 stations                  27 stations                       33 stations
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    10/31/2010                        12/15/2011
Comments
                All reference stations have been established and are operational. The target was
(incl. %
                exceeded by 22%.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Digital cadastre mapping.
                                            103,000 ha          95,000 ha     1,993,318 ha
Value
                                            vectorized at scale vectorized at vectorized at scale
(quantitative   0 hectares vectorized
                                            1:500 (16,000 ha); scale 1:500    1:500 (8,218 ha);
or Qualitative)
                                            1:1000 (41,000      (8,000 ha);   1:1000 (62,986 ha);

                                               viii
                                            ha); 1:2500         1:1000         1:2500 (1,862,114
                                            (46,000 ha).        (41,000 ha);   ha).
                                                                1:2500
                                                                (46,000 ha).
Date achieved     12/31/2003                06/01/2004          02/08/2008     12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          The target was exceeded by more than 600%.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Offices which provide legal extension services.
Value
(quantitative     0 offices                 30 offices                         63 offices
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                10/31/2010                         12/31/2011
Comments
                  RGZ now provides legal aid to clients at its own offices. The original target has
(incl. %
                  been more than doubled.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Development and implementation of a strategic business plan.
Value                                    Corporate strategy                  Strategy and
(quantitative     No plan.               and business plan                   business plan for
or Qualitative)                          approved.                           2011 completed.
Date achieved     12/31/2003             10/31/2010                          12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          The target has been achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/17/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           0.00
  2     09/02/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           0.00
  3     01/07/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           0.00
  4     06/24/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           0.72
  5     02/15/2006       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    1.76
  6     06/26/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           2.11
  7     08/15/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           3.34
  8     11/02/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           4.63
  9     06/15/2007       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    8.16
 10     11/09/2007           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         10.45
 11     02/11/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         12.72
 12     07/08/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         14.41
 13     12/14/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         16.77
 14     06/29/2009       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  19.25
 15     10/08/2009           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         19.94
 16     04/19/2010           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         23.55


                                                  ix
 17    06/30/2010         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                23.55
 18    11/07/2010         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                25.24
 19    05/18/2011         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory         26.61
 20    08/29/2011         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory         27.18
 21    02/22/2012         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                28.15


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension and reallocation of
 05/24/2010       N       S       S          23.55
                                                     funds.
 08/03/2010               S       S          24.36   Two changes to loan schedules.
                                                     Reallocation of funds, extension
 08/09/2011               S     MS           27.18   of closing date and approval of
                                                     grace period.
 02/01/2012               S     MS           28.15   Reallocation of funds.
 02/17/2012               S     MS           28.15   Extension of project closure.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country context. The turbulent recent history of Serbia, combined with nearly 60 years of
socialism, left much of the country’s property records and land administration system in a poor
state. Over 70% of apartments were not registered in a viable registration system, land
transactions in rural areas were often not legally registered, illegal building had escalated, a
significant backlog had emerged in the civil courts where about 20% of cases were land or
property related, property registers and cadastral maps were out-of-date or incomplete, and there
was a mismatch between land parcel records in cadastre offices and those in the legal registers or
“land books? maintained by municipal courts. In addition, only 20% of the country was covered
by the land book system, meaning that the remainder had only a land parcel inventory system.

Government strategy. The Government of Serbia (GOS) recognized that an effective national
property rights system was a prerequisite for economic growth and broadening economic
prosperity, particularly through land and housing development, wise stewardship of natural
resources, increased use of property as collateral for credit purposes, increased property tax
collection and increased efficiency of real property markets. A high-level government committee
headed by the prime minister was established in 2002, with a focus on real property registration,
real property markets, privatization and property rights. The GOS strategy also included priority
support for the creation of a Real Estate Cadastre (REC) nationwide and efforts to address illegal
construction. Also in 2002, the Law on State Land Survey, Cadastre and Registration of Real
Estate Rights (SSCR Law) was amended to cover many of the functions necessary for the
introduction of a secure cadastre and real property registration system, and the GOS confirmed
the single agency model to administer both real property registration and cadastre, which had
been adopted in 1992.

Rationale for Bank involvement. With three basic pre-requisites for a successful program
satisfied – a satisfactory law, a viable single agency, and high level government commitment –
Bank support could readily contribute to improving cadastre and registration operation in Serbia,
thereby speeding up the transition to a market economy in a crucial domain in which public
involvement and positive externalities were important elements. The Bank had already carried
out a number of land administration projects across the region and in most of the Republic of
Serbia’s neighboring countries. The Bank brought to the task experience gained from operational
involvement in this field in Armenia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Moldova,
Romania, Russia, Slovenia and many other countries.

The Republic of Serbia had achieved good donor coordination in this area; a donor conference
for land administration was convened by the GOS in 2002 and continued in 2004 with regular
donor meetings for international financial support. However the Bank was able to involve other
donors in ways the Borrower and other donors alone could not, by providing a framework for
project interaction.




                                                1
Higher level objectives to which the project contributes. The Transitional Support Strategy
(TSS) for Serbia and Montenegro was updated and approved by the World Bank Board on
March 16, 2004 (IDA / R2004-0035). The Real Estate Cadastre and Registration project was
included in the TSS Update as part of the FY04 program. The proposed project would help
support two of the GOS's four Near and Medium Term Reform Agenda goals as contained in the
TSS: (i) stimulating near-term growth and creating the basis for a sustainable supply response;
and (ii) improving governance and building effective institutions.
The TSS update identified the requirements for stimulating growth and creating the basis for a
sustainable supply response, including that property rights and claims would be recognized,
contracts could be enforced, and a level playing field to exist between the existing enterprise
sector and the new private sector; and strengthening the legal and institutional framework for
improved real property registration.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to increase confidence and lower transaction
costs by building a more efficient property registration and cadastre system, with the purpose of
contributing to the development of effective real property markets.

To achieve this objective, the Project was to support both operational functions and improvement
of the REC, as well as institutional development of the registration and cadastre authority – the
Republic Geodetic Authority (RGZ). Sustainability of the integrated registration and cadastre
system in RGZ and its local offices was to be achieved by supporting business process
improvement and better planning of cost recovery, plus improving RGZ’s out-sourcing approach,
the wider use of publicity and public information campaigns, and supporting the accelerated
transfer of the land book data from the courts to RGZ.

Key Indicators linked to the PDO were:

   •   increase in the number of transactions occurring in land and real estate, and increased
       volume of mortgages; and
   •   increased satisfaction with services provided by the registration and cadastre system.

Intermediate Operational Development results were measured by:

   •   percentage completion of the REC; and
   •   renewed RGZ offices with a modern Information and Communications Technologies
       (ICT) system.

Intermediate Institutional Development results were measured by:

   •   reduction in transaction turnaround times; and
   •   percentage of customers satisfied with services.

These indicators were to be measured by annual customer surveys, regular project monitoring of
the RGZ offices and other means.

                                               2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised during the Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The direct beneficiaries were to be the property owners and cadastre and real estate professionals
such as surveyors and lawyers in those Cadastral Municipalities (CMs) chosen for Project
support in creation of the REC. Similarly, RGZ staff in renovated offices was to benefit from
working conditions. Furthermore, academic institutions, the private sector and other civil society
groups were expected to benefit from the Project.

The institutional and the legal frameworks that were to be improved in the course of the Project
affected all persons and entities with rights to real property throughout the whole of Serbia, and
the facilitators of the real estate market in both the public and private sectors. These included the
municipal authorities, urban planners, (mortgage) banks, real estate agencies, real estate
appraisers, private land surveying companies and lawyers working on property cases. And of
course, all prospective owners of property rights, being the general public.

1.5 Original Components

The Project was composed of two components, both aimed at increasing the efficiency of the
registration and cadastre system:

Component 1: Operational Development and Support
The objective of the Operational Development and Support component was to support RGZ to
speed-up the completion of the REC and to deliver quality services throughout the whole country.
The Project supported RGZ to complete the REC in an accelerated time frame in the priority
urban and related rural areas, and further develop the ongoing or “maintenance? registration
system for registering transactions (such as sales and mortgages), focusing on improving
customer service. The improvements to ICT, strengthening of secondary transactions and
improvements to the control network were expected to benefit all RGZ offices and therefore all
Serbian real property owners. The legal extension subcomponent targeted the poor and otherwise
disadvantaged groups and real property owners.

Specific tasks (subcomponents) undertaken included:

   •   control network improvements, including support for the continuous operating network
       of Global Positioning System (GPS) stations;
   •   digital cadastre mapping (up-dating and conversion; renewal);
   •   REC formation involving data collection, delimitation, adjudication, survey and
       registration;
   •   focused support for REC creation in Belgrade;




                                                 3
   •   strengthening of the secondary transaction system (REC maintenance), especially the
       registration of sales, mortgages, subdivisions - including facilities improvements (office
       building and renovations, and office equipment);
   •   information and communications technology (ICT) systems modernization for REC; and
   •   provision of legal extension services for low-income property owners.

Component 2 Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening.
The objective of the Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening component was to
provide institutional development, capacity building and project management for RGZ. While
RGZ staff appeared to be the direct beneficiaries of this component, the improvements to
business processes, legal framework and customer service were expected to benefit all those who
used the registration and cadastre system.

Specific tasks (subcomponents) undertaken included:

   •   legal framework completion;
   •   research and development, strategy and business plan development and implementation,
       including a cost recovery strategy, and business process improvements;
   •   ICT strategy development and implementation;
   •   customer publicity and information campaigns, including outreach to real estate market
       professionals (real estate agents, bankers, lawyers, etc.);
   •   training and human resource development;
   •   project management for both headquarters and regional offices; and
   •   monitoring and evaluation, customer surveys and special studies.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised during the Project.

1.7 Other significant changes

The State Union of Serbia and Montenegro was dissolved on June 5, 2006. The Republic of
Serbia took over all obligations of the Project on the same date. Since the original goals of the
Project set out in the PAD were destined only for Serbia, the dissolution had no effect on the
Project. The new Constitution adopted on November 8, 2006 did not affect the Project.

REC targets adjusted. REC creation under the Project was executed for more CMs than
designed in the PAD. The original target was set at 91 CMs, and adjusted to 225 CMs during the
Project. Due to delays in obtaining land book data in the urban areas from the courts, the
commissions responsible for creation of the REC moved to peri-urbans areas that were not
covered by the land books and that could be completed much more quickly. When all basic data
from the land books became available in 2009, the commissions were able to return to the urban
areas and finish creating the REC, using both Project and RGZ funds. Completion was made
possible by a short extension of the closing date of the Project.



                                               4
In May 2010, an amendment was made to the dates set in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) for reducing the time to register a transfer of real property. The dates were extended by
one year to ‘ten days by the end of 2010 and five days by the end of 2011’. This extension was a
result of delays and then ultimately the cancellation of the development of an integrated ICT
system, as well as problems encountered by delays in the municipal courts handing over the land
books to RGZ, causing a delay in the creation of the REC.

A second amendment in May 2011 waived a requirement to establish RGZ as an executive
agency within the lifetime of the Project. The executive status was intended to enable RGZ to
work as an agency with financial and managerial independence from central government. In its
Five-Year Strategic Business and Annual Business Plan dated March 2010, RGZ concluded that
the initial expectations for becoming self-financing and creating an executive agency could not
be met within the time frame of the Project. In the same period the Serbian real estate market had
been heavily hit in the financial crisis, with a substantial reduction nationwide in sales and
mortgages, greatly reducing the fees collected by RGZ and thus its potential source of income.

Time extensions. The closing date of the Project was extended three times throughout its
execution, from October 31, 2010 as stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), to
March 31, 2012. These extensions were due to the need for additional time to finalize the REC
creation and the availability of extra funds due to cancellation of the ICT contract. Extreme
weather due to heavy snow hampered delivery of goods in the final month of execution of the
Project, requiring the third extension.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of background analysis. The Project was prepared by a large and experienced team
of experts, using the Japan Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund. RGZ had
the vision for the development of a land administration system but needed the expertise and
support from the Bank. Good technical assistance, utilizing the PHRD grant, was considered
necessary, partly due to the lateness in development of the registration and cadastre system in
Serbia compared to neighboring countries. The lessons learned there could be applied to Serbia.

The preparation under PHRD funding was thorough and formed the basis for the execution of the
Project. Support was provided in the areas of ICT, capacity building, digitizing of cadastre maps,
the legal framework, business practices to improve customer services, improvement of REC
services, human resources development and monitoring and evaluation. PHRD funds also
supported development of an ICT strategy, a land market study, a strategic business plan, a social
assessment and customer survey, and an assessment of the real property market. At initial project
preparation, US$ 9 million IDA funding was available. During the two months before appraisal,
an additional US$ 21 million became available for the Project, determining the final funds for the
Project at US$ 30 million. Despite the short notice, , the expert team was able to adapt the
project implementation plan prior to appraisal.




                                                5
Parallel funding. Much work was done by both RGZ and the Bank to bring in other donors.
After the donor conference for land administration in 2002 and the subsequent regular donor
meetings, the Bank’s additional funds proved to be an extra leverage for other donors to provide
funds for land administration development. Assistance was given at the start of the Project by
Sweden, Norway, Germany and the European Commission (EC), for well-defined and
independently manageable activities that supported components of the Project. This was
coordinated well by RGZ through the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Funds made available
by Norway and Sweden for digitizing and training made it possible to reassign the Bank’s funds
to other components, such as an increased area for REC creation. At the time that the Project
started, more than 40% of Serbia had already been covered by REC, primarily in rural areas.
With Bank funding, the Project was able to accelerate the creation of the REC, particularly in the
more difficult and time-consuming urban areas.

Risk assessment. Overall Project risk was assessed as Moderate at appraisal, with two elements
to be Substantial. The first risk was related directly to the PDO and concerned the SSCR law
being reversed to allow the courts to continue with registration; thus creating dual agencies for
registration and cadastre. This risk was mitigated by improving the service standards and REC
coverage throughout the Project, and in 2009 the single agency model was endorsed by the
SSCR law, thus eliminating the risk identified at appraisal. The second substantial risk related to
the implementation of the ICT system, with lessons learned in projects in other countries
showing that this would be difficult to implement fully. This risk did materialize and at the end
of the Project there was no system for the integration of both alphanumerical and graphical data
in a single database due to cancellation of the software development contract. Overall the risk
assessment at appraisal proved to be accurate.

2.2 Implementation

Real Estate Cadastre. A major goal of the Project was to further extend the REC, particularly to
urban areas, so as to develop the real estate market by ensuring legal security for the property
owners and other holders of rights. This was done using both accelerated and standard
procedures, depending on the reliability of the registration data obtained from either the land
books or the land parcel inventory system. The accelerated procedure required only a notice of
registration to the formal owner, with right to appeal, while the standard procedure required
publication in the public media to verify claims on property. As soon as it gained experience,
RGZ realized that the objective of 89 CMs set out in the PAD was easily within reach, and it
extended the target to 225 CMs in urban and peri-urban areas when handing over of the land
books by the municipal courts was delayed. This took place only in 2009. Outside the scope of
the Project, RGZ was developing the REC in rural regions and it was nearly completed (99.4%)
for the whole country by closure of the Project.

Development Objectives. The Mid Term Review (MTR) at the beginning of 2008 showed that
RGZ was speeding up registration and improving the quality of data and services. There was
much progress in the development of a new Law on State Surveying and Real Estate Cadastre,
which was adopted in 2009, and that would replace the SSCR Law. The new draft law stipulated
numerous improvements, leading towards faster and more efficient rights registration within the
REC, together with adequate resolution to various business procedures of RGZ, including
expansion of its range of duties. The real property market was becoming more active, requiring
                                                6
RGZ to anticipate future demands. The mortgage market was also developing strongly, caused in
part by the establishment of the National Mortgage Insurance Corporation (NKOSK) under the
Ministry of Finance (MoF), an incentive of the GOS to stimulate mortgages for families with low
incomes.

The institutional arrangements had been agreed upon in the DCA and the Project Council was
established 1½ years after the start of the Project. The Council was a high-level, inter-ministerial
committee with a mandate to ensure coordination and communication among the involved
ministries, with representation of the Ministry of Capital Investments, Ministry of International
Economic Relations and the Ministry of Finance. The MTR noted reduced commitment of the
Council until the appointment of the incumbent RGZ Director, but once re-established in 2009,
the Council proved to be very beneficial to the advance of the Project. An Advisory Expert
Group (user council) with representation of stakeholders and universities was intended to be
established but apart from two user workshops, the Group was never formally set up. This was a
missed opportunity and cooperation with the real estate market professionals would have further
assisted RGZ in developing responses to user demands within the Project.

In 2008, the influence of the world-wide financial crisis was being felt in Serbia, and the growing
real estate market was plummeting. The number of transactions registered fell by 15% and the
mortgages by 33%, thereby also reducing the fees collected by RGZ. As noted, this was a major
reason for postponing RGZ’s plans for the executive agency status. The real estate market is now
growing again and there had been good growth in 2011 and 2012.

Software development. The contract for software development for the integration of
alphanumerical and graphical data into one database was awarded and began in 2008. The Bank
had noted that 13 months was a short time frame for development, testing and integration of the
data, and training of RGZ staff. A number of events took place which affected the client’s trust
in the successful execution of the contract:
    • the contractor’s project manager was changed directly after contract award after
        agreement by the client;
    • severe delays in finalizing the Project Plan and the Business Analysis containing
        functional specifications and the data model resulted in the first extension of the contract;
    • contractor’s request to remove essential modules, to add additional functionality at high
        costs and to replace the software environment for the graphical component;
    • postponement of delivery of the software in various stages of its development, making it
        impossible to be used by RGZ for testing of the data.

Communications and trust were restored only temporarily when the contractor took internal
measures after receiving the client’s Notice of Supplier’s Default. However, when the graphical
component proved not to meet the contractual requirements, the client initiated the first
discussions to terminate the contract. Despite several attempts by client and contractor, with the
Bank’s mediation using expertise of independent consultants, RGZ terminated the contract three
years after its signing.

Although a disappointment to the Project, the cancellation of the contract did not substantially
influence the PDO goals. The envisaged ICT system was to allow registration in a centralized

                                                 7
database, thereby increasing the speed of registration of property transfers and mortgages,
facilitating workflow management and making data analysis easier. Existing software and
systems were improved and hardware and software licenses supplied, but this was not as good as
implementing the new system with integrated alphanumeric and graphical components.
Consequently, RGZ has made a new ICT strategy for the development of the required software.

AGROS. International recognition of a very successful implementation of the AGROS 1
Continuously Operating Reference Station (CORS) Network of Serbia was demonstrated by
RGZ being appointed as the Local Analysis Centre with responsibility to control 42 regional
stations in the European network. Commendably, RGZ has continued to improve its CORS
network and services by incorporating the existing private sector CORS and control centre on the
basis of an agreement for shared use of the CORS infrastructure and sharing out the user fees for
the CORS services.

Scanning of data. A major achievement of RGZ was the establishment of a center for scanning
maps and paper archives, including the land books. Norwegian funding enabled RGZ to set up a
permanent facility for creating a digital archive, replacing the paper archives located at its local
offices. The Project funded the renovation of the space in the building for the digital archive.

Customer satisfaction. The results of the third customer satisfaction survey in the last year of
the Project ranked RGZ third among the most trustworthy institutions in the country,
immediately after the church and the police. The survey provided a valuable input on how to
address both short-term and long-term operational issues that RGZ still had to address, and
included a broad spectrum of issues requiring policy formulation by government. A general
complaint by the public was that the REC registration was too complicated, despite the attempt
by the 2009 Law on State Cadastre and REC to simplify procedures. Other areas for
improvement, based on the survey findings, were RGZ’s communication program to regularly
update the progress of key RGZ activities to the stakeholders; monitoring of public perception of
RGZ activities; and managing expectations in relation to benefits from land administration.

Training. The execution of the Project’s training plan was very successful, with more than 8,000
training days provided to staff in areas such as system administration, business and graphical
applications, human resource management, establishment and maintenance of the REC,
geographic information system (GIS) and implementation of new laws. Training was conducted
primarily in RGZ’s own training center at its head office, which was refurbished and equipped
using Project funds. Study tours to Scotland, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden helped senior
RGZ managers and staff to broaden their perspectives. Findings and observations of the study
tours proved to be highly valuable, directly feeding into the design and implementation of land
administration activities. RGZ was also very successful in utilizing the training programs offered
by other donors. Further, the Project supported the First Serbian Geodetic Congress, held in
December 2011 and organized by RGZ, marking 175 years of the surveying profession in Serbia.
More than 400 participants from 23 countries attended the congress.

Risk. The Project was never at risk throughout its life cycle.


1
    Active Geodetic Reference Network of Serbia

                                                  8
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. A customer satisfaction survey and a social assessment were carried out in the
preparation phase using PHRD funds; the Bank supported a land market study. The results
provided baseline data on the real estate market, social conditions in the housing sector and the
quality of services. RGZ already had in-house capacity for input and output reporting and
regularly did so. An M&E plan was developed and extra training in M&E was built into the
capacity building component of the Project.

Implementation. In the beginning of the Project, RGZ perceived that M&E reporting was set up
to satisfy the conditions of the Bank, noting only the internal progress of the Project through
quarterly tables with indicators in relation to the PDO. Standard forms had been developed
containing fields which were difficult to understand and irrelevant to the real estate market. The
Bank was adamant in collecting and maintaining the baseline data to show the progress of the
Project and the impact on the real estate market for the whole of Serbia.
During a Bank mission in the second year of the Project, meetings were held with RGZ staff and
stakeholders to assess the effects of the Project on the daily activities of real estate agents,
lawyers, banks, developers and other real estate professionals. All representatives interviewed
demonstrated a positive attitude to the Project and were satisfied with the results that RGZ was
making. These results were a good incentive for RGZ to improve M&E reporting.

Two independent customer satisfaction surveys were conducted in 2008 and 2011, and they gave
information on the perception of the general public and the professional players of the real estate
market. M&E reporting continued to improve significantly throughout the Project, and with the
appointment of a full-time M&E officer in 2009, RGZ was fully committed to collecting the
required data for both external and internal analysis. Although initial ownership of the M&E
system was weak and early reports were poor, the results matrix and reporting was greatly
improved and deemed adequate for most of the project implementation period.

A land market study was prepared during the last month of the Project to report on the status of
the market and the satisfaction of the professional customers at completion of the Project. The
study noted that there is more clarity in the legal framework on the registration of property,
making for faster procedures and improved quality. The market players also recognize that the
speed of registration will be increased in the future once the REC has been fully created.

Utilization. Besides monitoring its internal activities, by the end of the Project, RGZ was
providing online data for both government and the private sector on the real estate market. The
Bank is confident that RGZ will continue to provide the market with transparent data, such as
numbers of transactions and mortgages, and customer satisfaction rating. In the future, RGZ can
extend this service by providing, for example, geo-located selling prices, gender and age of
buyers (subject to privacy laws), and other data relevant to the real estate market. RGZ can learn
from registration and cadastre organizations in other countries on data collection and
dissemination to the society.




                                                9
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Project’s compliance with the Bank’s safeguards policies were reviewed at entry to ensure
that all potential issues had been taken into account in the Project’s design. It was concluded that
only the Environmental Assessment safeguard policies were triggered by the Project. Although
not required, the Bank carried out a social assessment to determine the extent of illegal buildings
and the influence of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) on the proposed project. These
problems were considered significant; however, the decision was taken to continue with the
Project since a registration and cadastre system is a basic piece of administrative infrastructure
for legalization of such buildings and housing of IDPs. The resolution of the illegal buildings
issue was not part of the Project design.

The environmental category rating was C, and no assessment was required. Part of the REC
creation was dedicated to improving customer service. Renovation and refurbishment of a
number of existing local cadastre offices (LCOs) was carried out and two new structures were
built. Although it was not required, the Bank’s environmental specialist did conduct an
assessment in April 2009 and concluded that all the civil works financed under the Project were
environmentally safe and in compliance with local legislation and standards. Other than
construction and renovation of office space, the Project did not support other civil works, land
conversion, resource extraction or any activities that could potentially damage the environment.

The procurement activities under the Project were rated as Satisfactory. The PIU had gradually
gained experience during the execution of the Project and effectively managed more than 700
individual contracts. From the RGZ side however, contract management was not always its
strong side. This is demonstrated, for example, by RGZ not always responding timely in writing
to contract obligations and by often changing procurement plans.

Financial management of the project by the PIU was satisfactory. The Project used a suitable,
automated accounting system, had well qualified staff, and prepared accounts and reports in a
satisfactory manner. The PIU needed to work hard to maintain quality accounts because it was
difficult for them to identify RGZ counterpart transactions relating to the Project and to verify
those transactions in the reports provided by the central Treasury system. This could have been
improved by clearer identification of counterpart transactions in the Treasury accounting system
by establishing a sub-account for RGZ counterpart payments The project financial statements
audits were essential considering the complex relationship between the Project, RGZ and the
Treasury, and the audit reports did not identify any major issues. Initially, a limited scope entity
audit of RGZ (more precisely the audits of a number of regional centers each year) was also
required. However, the conclusion was that such audits did not add sufficient value to warrant
the costs, and the entity audit requirement was permanently waived starting 2009.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

ICT renewal. RGZ have adequate ongoing ICT infrastructure, but must give attention to
renewing its ICT system, integrating both the alpha-numerical and the graphical data into a
unified and centralized information system. A new strategy has been developed, which takes into
account the ever-changing pace of software and hardware development. The current strategy
includes the use of open-source software (which was not an option in the early years of the
                                                10
project). This is cheaper to procure, but will require more ICT expertise at RGZ to implement
and maintain the software. Support may be given by external companies in this respect, but a
thorough knowledge by dedicated staff needs to be present within the organization to manage
such a system.

Cost recovery and independent status. As noted, the obligation to implement the executive
agency structure including full cost recovery was waived during the Project. The real estate
market had been heavily hit by the economic recession, reducing the number of registrations of
transactions and mortgages as the primary potential source of income of RGZ. The Business Plan
adopted in 2010 reasoned that a self-supporting independent status was viable only in 2013, and
RGZ prepared scenarios in this timeframe. The project was restructured in 2010 to amend the
loan covenant and results framework to take this into account.

During the last year of the Project, the GOS made a proposal for a new project on the
management of land resources based on REC data, covering a number of issues that still need to
be addressed, but were not included in the project design. This includes proposals to deal with
informal developments, fragmented land parcels in rural areas, condominium rights and
associations and conversion of land still held in State ownership to the current users of that land.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Improving land administration through a reliable and efficient registration and cadastre system
was a high priority for the GOS well before the start of the Project and remains so at completion.
Before the Project started, a substantial part of the country had already been recorded in a unified
cadastral registration system (the REC), and the support of the Bank for the Project was the push
which RGZ needed to develop the REC further. The CPS 2004-2007 was built on three pillars –
create a smaller, more sustainable, more efficient public sector; create a larger, more dynamic
private sector; and reduce poverty levels and improve social protection and access to public
services. The Project has firmly supported these pillars, improving RGZ’s operations and
resources, providing transparency for an efficient real estate market for use by both the public
and private sectors, and improving protection of property rights.

The Project continued to build on the priorities identified by the GOS in the CPS 2008-2011:
encouraging dynamic private sector led growth to ensure incomes to converge with European
levels; providing opportunities and broadening participation in growth; and managing emerging
environmental and disaster risks. The development of a National Spatial Data Infrastructure
(NSDI) in the context of the European Union’s (EU) INSPIRE initiative has progressed well and
this will further stimulate cooperation and coordination in all aspects of land management.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project did indeed contribute to the development of an effective real property market. To do
this, the Project was to increase confidence and . lower transaction costs, by building an efficient
property registration and cadastre system.


                                                11
Increasing confidence. This was achieved by accelerating the property registration process
through improvements and support to the operations to create the REC. By completion of the
Project, the REC had been created for nearly the whole country, which was an enormous feat
considering the challenges at the start of the Project. The stakeholder workshop held at
completion of the Project concluded that the REC was a valuable asset to the real property
market, and welcomed dialogue between the public and private sectors; thus setting a footprint
for further cooperation. As previously stated RGZ is now considered the third most trustworthy
national institution behind the church and the police.

Lowering transaction costs. These costs are described under 3.3 Efficiency, and more detailed
in the Economic and Financial Analysis (Annex 3). Reduction in time to register and greater
volumes being processed without increasing staff numbers has effectively lowered transaction
costs to the government and the public. The transaction cost in terms of fees to the individual are
not lower than at the beginning of the Project, but the savings in: time to register and associated
reduction in delays in accessing property or mortgage financing; reduced numbers of visits to the
office; and ease of registering are significant. The detailed calculations for the ERR and other
analyses are provided in more detail in Annex 3.

Building an efficient property registration and cadastre system. The Project supported both
operational functions as well as institutional development for RGZ. Creation of the REC
involved data collection, delimitation of boundaries through surveying, comparison of the
records of land books and land cadastre, adjudication and registration. The geodetic reference
system was improved, a digital cadastral mapping unit was set up for updating and converting
paper maps, the maintenance registration system was strengthened for the registration of sales,
mortgages and subdivisions, and legal services were provided for low-income property owners.
The institutional framework was strengthened by customer publicity and information campaigns
to both the general public and professional groups such as real estate agents, lawyers and banks.
Further, there was substantial support for training and developing human resources, monitoring
and evaluation, customer surveys and project management. A large number of RGZ offices were
also renovated or newly constructed, and supplied with modern equipment.

The cancellation of the software development contract hampered the implementation of a
centralized ICT system, but minimally affected achieving the PDO and meeting the targets for
the key indicators. The processing time for registering transactions was improved drastically but
the five-day target was not achieved for all offices. At project completion, RGZ was developing
a strategic plan for the development of a unified, centralized information system, including
workflow management procedures. Much of the ICT infrastructure, which was provided by the
Project, is already in place.

In relation to the key indicators, the following results were achieved:

   •   increase in the number of transactions occurring in land and real estate by 27%, and nine-
       fold increase in the number of mortgages; and
   •   35% increase in satisfaction with services provided by the registry and cadastre system.




                                                12
Intermediate Operational Development results were:

   •   99.4% completion of the REC; and
   •   39 renewed or newly constructed LCOs with modern ICT equipment.

Intermediate Institutional Development results were:

   •   reduction in transaction turnaround times from 186 days to 7 days (average); and
   •   87% of customers satisfied with service.

These results were generally higher than the PDO goals set out at the start of the Project. The
figures for the transaction turnaround times can be confusing. Doing Business 2005 reported that
it took 186 days to register a property in 2005 and this improved to 5 days by the time Doing
Business 2012 was published. In fact, the 5 days is for those willing to pay an additional fee and
the average is 7 days. Doing Business assesses the time to register from the parties agreeing the
transaction and therefore includes the time for drawing up documents and paying fees before the
property gets to the registry office. It was estimated in 2005 that it took over 60 days just for the
registry office work. The improvements are dramatic, whichever base line data is used.

3.3 Efficiency

The Project was developed to improve the REC and registration services in order to alleviate the
major constraints on the development of real estate markets in Serbia. Benefits to both
individuals and Serbian society were measured in facilitated real estate transactions consisting of
property sales and leases, accelerated access to building land and land acquisitions for builders
and developers, and enhanced procedures for the privatization of State-owned assets that occupy
land. Another facet of the Project was the anticipated reduced per unit cost of service delivery to
clients.

Transactions, measured as applications for change of ownership by RGZ, have increased
dramatically since the Project’s inception; the total number of transactions in 2005 was 290,309.
After a small dip due to the financial crisis, the annual number of transactions was still 28%
higher at 370,947 by the end of 2010. The number of sale transactions as recorded by the GOS
Tax Authority increased over 8% from 128,936 in 2005 to 140,874 by 2011. Mortgages have
also greatly increased during the Project’s lifetime. The number of mortgages registered at RGZ
in 2005 was 8,664, while in 2010 it was 259% greater at 31,125, and in 2011 it was 373% greater
at 40,941 (please refer to Annex 3 for all graphs).

It should be noted that the rate of growth of the real estate market before the financial crisis was
steadily increasing from 10% in 2006 to another 15% in 2007 in terms of transactions recorded
by the Tax Authority. The rate of growth of mortgage transactions fell from 118% to a still
respectable 38% increase in the same time period. However, the crisis had devastating effects on
economies throughout the world and Serbia was no exception; transactions as recorded by the
Tax Authority declined at the rate of 2% but mortgages declined at the rate of 25%. Transactions
are still on the decline, suffering a drop of 13.6% when comparing 2011 to 2008, but recovery
was quick in the mortgage market: mortgages were growing fast at 25% in 2010 and 32% in

                                                 13
2011. With the measures taken by the GOS in stimulating home ownership for the lower income
bracket by the National Mortgage Insurance Bank NKOSK (please refer to Annex 3 for details),
there may be even faster rates of growth in the next few years.

RGZ has increased its efficiency in registering transactions. Most registrations were still being
done by the Land Book offices in 2005 because the bulk of the systematic creation of the REC
for urban areas was not completed. For RGZ, in 2005, the time needed to register was 27 days
for a sale transaction and 13 days for a mortgage. By 2010, it took 23 days to register a sale
transaction and nine days to register a mortgage. By the end of 2011, 54% of the transactions
were registered in five days or less, and the rest were completed within ten days, averaging a
little more than seven days country-wide. A fast-track five-day service is available for clients
prepared to pay double fees for registration. It takes less than eight days to register a mortgage in
all LCOs. The implementation of a unified and centralized ICT system, once developed, will
further reduce the time to an estimated five days or fewer for all LCOs. It is commendable that
RGZ have not only increased the efficiency of their services, but have done so at a time that they
had to take over all the registration work in urban areas from the Land Book offices.

However, the cost of service delivery to clients in terms of fees has not improved. Costs to
register a transaction and mortgage in 2005 were 3615.90 dinar (US$ 42.55) and 6026.50 dinar
(US$ 70.92), respectively. By 2011, the costs to register a transaction and mortgage increased to
6,872 dinar (US$ 80.87) and to 0.2% of the value secured by the mortgage, respectively, due to
high inflation in local currency and euro-denominated fees. Although these figures are still low
by international standards, further efficiency improvements can still be made to bring the costs
down.

Accelerated access for builders and developers on land and privatization of State-owned land are
two issues that are still not resolved. However, these issues were not under the direct mandate of
RGZ during the Project, and they were not part of the Project design. The 2009 Law on State
Survey and REC identifies a large expanse of new activities under RGZ’s mandate, including
property valuation, utilities cadastre, address registry, land use cadastre and land consolidation.
These activities should improve the current situation; however it will take a concerted effort.

The indicative economic rate of return (ERR) adopted from the approach used in the PAD is
based on an estimation of the expected impact on the overall land markets as a result of the
improvements made to the public services provided by RGZ, particularly regarding title security
and efficiency in market transactions. These improvements were measured by the increased
number of transactions as well as the average property prices, compared to baseline estimates
without the Project, the product of which would determine the total market value. In this context,
the average property price is a weighted measure for a property pool consisting of houses,
apartments and enterprises.

The PAD estimated an ERR of 30%. The current ERR based on actual ex-post project data is
128%. The key parameter driving this analysis is the number of REC folios to be completed
under the Project, which was estimated at 596,000 for the project life. However, the number
actually completed under the Project was 964,642, which was 162% above the project target as
assumed by the PAD, and this fundamentally changed all of the assumptions thereafter in the

                                                 14
model created for the PAD. Also, the number of transactions expected to be completed per year
with the Project was only 26,322 for 2011. Actual transactions in Serbia far exceeded these
expectations, reaching 140,874 in 2011. This in turn greatly increased the market turnover rates
to more than 13% in 2011. Therefore, the ERR greatly exceeded the PAD’s assumptions. To
control for the fact that not all of this growth can be attributed to the Project, the incremental net
benefits to transacting parties have been reduced to only 5% of market turnover as opposed to
20% of market turnover, as assumed in the PAD, and then only 70% of this was attributed to the
World Bank investment as only that is the portion of total project costs covered by the Bank loan
with the remainder provided by the GOS and parallel financing from Norway. At a discount rate
of 10%, the net present value of economic benefits directly attributable to the Project was
estimated to equal US$ 90 million in the PAD, three times greater than the amount of funds
invested. Today, the net present value of economic benefits attributable to the Project equal
US$ 178.83 million, which is nearly double the original target. Please refer to Annex 3 for the
model.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Both RGZ and the Bank were optimistic in the goals set out at the start of the Project. Although
the creation of the REC was already well underway, the Project gave the necessary impetus to
finish it, particularly in the urban areas. In most of the PDO goals, RGZ performed well, and the
key indicators showed that the end results were often higher than the targets set. Great
improvements were made in the quality of services provided for registering property transactions.

During the development of the Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORS), RGZ
cooperated with the private sector, sharing a joint geodetic reference infrastructure with more
stations established at completion than planned, giving more stability to the network. The joint
network is functioning well and Serbia has received high international recognition, being
appointed as the Local Analysis Center in the region. The target for digital cadastre mapping was
also well exceeded.

In its results matrix on current operational projects in Serbia, the CPS 2012-2015 concluded that
the real estate cadastre and registration was functioning relatively well, and that notable progress
had been made in the creation of a more efficient property market through improvements in both
registration and financing. The availability of secure land titles, it noted, was already having a
substantial effect on the use of mortgage backed financing. The Bank was instrumental in
achieving these positive outcomes through its support and the Project is considered to be very
successful.

The latest World Bank Doing Business indicators show that Serbia has improved in terms of
registering property from the 98th to 39th ranking globally. This was due to the reduced time
needed to complete registration, from 91 days in 2010 to five days in 2012, using the fast-track
option. The five-day option for all transactions would have been feasible if the ICT software had
been developed and implemented. At completion, 54% of all offices recorded transaction times
of five days or fewer, the rest between six and ten days.


                                                 15
Despite the set-back with the cancelled ICT software contract, the overall outcome rating of the
Project is satisfactory. The real estate market is facilitated by the REC throughout the whole
country and registration turn-around times have greatly improved, and these achievements
override the delayed unified ICT system. RGZ has developed a strategic plan and is giving
priority to its development and implementation, so further improvements can soon be expected,
thereby increasing efficiency and reducing the cost of registering property.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The social assessment and a special study on minority and gender issues pointed out a number of
social issues relevant to the Project. These issues included ethnic diversity concentrated in
specific regions; Roma people, the majority of which live in poor settlements; and gender. The
The PAD noted that the position of ethnic minorities was no different from that of the majority
Serb population with regard to property issues. The PAD also made a provision of legal
extension services for low-income property owners; RGZ provided assistance in the registration
process for everyone who asked for it, and gave free legal support to persons who were not able
to pay for it. Gender issues were addressed in the social and customer satisfaction surveys, but no
positive action was included in the project to improve the balance of registered owners between
men and women. The reports concluded that there is no legal discrimination and spouses are
protected in law even if they are not registered, but traditionally it is far more likely that the male
partner will be registered as the owner.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
With the constrained real estate market in the 1980s and 1990s, RGZ had ceased to function at
optimal level. However, throughout the Project, RGZ has developed itself from a reactive to a
proactive government institution. The 2009 Law on State Survey and REC identifies a number of
new duties to be carried out by the agency, and RGZ is ambitious in including these duties into
its daily business. Besides the REC, RGZ is already carrying out or anticipating responsibility for
property valuation, utilities cadastre, address registry, land use cadastre and land consolidation. It
is also taking a leading role in NSDI, and is researching the introduction of a three dimensional
(3D) cadastre. This demonstrates that RGZ is seriously expanding its responsibilities to related
fields.

Serbia still has many challenges and RGZ can play an important role in land administration
related issues. This will require both the expertise and good judgment of RGZ for the successful
implementation and efficiency of land management in general, thereby confirming the role of
RGZ in this broad field.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The completion of the REC at finalization of the Project was an enormous achievement, and
RGZ did far more than was anticipated when the Project started. The impact of creating the REC
has been very beneficial to the real estate market; and buying and selling with financial support
of mortgages had become common practice, as seen in the statistics on real estate. The
development of AGROS in combination with the private sector, including the role of RGZ as
regional coordinator of satellite data for accurate surveying, has been internationally recognized.


                                                  16
RGZ are an ambitious organization and are willing to accept responsibility of land management
issues, basic mapping needs, etc. This does have a downside however. The key task of
maintaining the registration and cadastre system needs to continue to be at the forefront so that
legal security in real property is maintained, thereby continuing to facilitate the real estate market
in registering transfers and mortgages. It is important for RGZ to focus on this key task, also
keeping in mind that this will be the basic source of income for the agency as an independent
public body in the near future.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A quick assessment of the real estate market was carried out at completion of the Project, with
interviews with the beneficiary and stakeholders on the effects of the Project on the real estate
market and the contribution of RGZ to the registration process. Customer satisfaction surveys
were also carried out towards the end of the project. The studies noted that there is more clarity
in the legal framework on the registration of property, making for faster procedures and
improved quality. The market players also recognized that the speed and ease of registration
were greatly improved and the quality of services had improved. Improved office facilities made
it much more reassuring and simple to go through the process of registration, and there is
confidence that greater efficiencies will be achieved once the REC records are fully automated
and available on-line. (This is the next phase of work that RGZ are planning).

A stakeholder workshop was held at completion of the Project, attended by facilitators of the real
estate market and universities. Points raised were the need for online publication of prices of
services and increased involvement of private surveyors. Moreover, RGZ should show more
presence at relevant business forums. The workshop concluded that the REC was a valuable
asset to the real estate market.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

A number of risks were defined in the PAD although none ranked as High Risk. The reversal of
the SSCR law was identified as a substantial risk, which would have resulted in a dual agency
responsibility for cadastre and land registration. A substantial risk was also identified for the full
implementation of the ICT system.

Legal changes in support of the single agency model for the REC had already reduced the
institutional risks at the start of the Project. The legal framework was further strengthened during
the Project, and the new SSCR law was passed in 2009. Together with the handing over to RGZ
of the land books by the municipal courts in the same year, this eliminated the threat of reversing
the earlier SSCR law, which would allow the courts to continue with property registration. This
would have eliminated the unified system.

The ICT system was not fully implemented at completion of the Project, due to the cancellation
of the contract for software development. The hardware and infrastructure however are
completely in place, and RGZ is taking all possible steps to develop and implement the required

                                                 17
software. With the knowledge acquired during the Project and the ICT Strategic Plan prepared at
the end of the Project, there is every confidence that it will be successful in this endeavor.

The PAD identified a number of modest risks and corresponding risk mitigation measures. At
completion of the Project, the REC had nationwide coverage and the beneficiaries were generally
satisfied with how RGZ was registering property and transactions, thus practically eliminating
the reputational and political risk to the government; it was clear from the start of the Project that
the primary role of RGZ was to establish the REC. Illegal constructions, privatization, restitution
and land consolidation still remain significant issues for the country and these exerted pressure
on the Project. Although these issues were not included in the Project, a sound registration and
cadastre system is an essential infrastructure for addressing them.

A new risk has arisen from the success of the Project and RGZ in creating the REC. This has
resulted in a large increase in the number of cases that need to be processed by the LCOs – most
transactions with urban land had previously been registered at the municipal courts using the
land books system. Now, however, all transactions come to the LCOs for registration. In the
main urban areas, this has resulted in significant pressure on staff and facilities, particularly in
some of the Belgrade LCOs, caused additionally by the increase in the number of registrations.
RGZ are looking at how to expand premises and increase staff numbers in order to avoid the risk
that backlogs will begin to emerge. RGZ is fully aware of this risk and has taken a variety of
steps to address it, although cooperation of municipal authorities to provide additional space is
probably required.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank team was well experienced and knowledgeable, applying a successful model to local
conditions. RGZ was very motivated in accelerating the creation of the REC, which it had
already started, and the Bank provided sound advice and assistance in this process. Good
preparation using PHRD funding was fundamental for the successful implementation of the
Project and the acquired knowledge proved to be a worthy asset during its execution.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank supervision took place on a regular basis, providing appropriate and well targeted advice
and observations. The aides memoires provided evidence of regular supervision and professional
advice given by the Bank’s experts throughout the Project. The Bank responded adequately to
the daily issues. However, the contract for the unified ICT software dragged on too long, and
more direct supervisory support of the Bank could have reduced the time needed to decide on
cancellation of the contract. This would then have given more time to reconsider further steps
and develop a new ICT strategy.

The fiduciary and safeguards policies were well managed and reported.


                                                 18
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank’s performance was adequate to the tasks and facilitated the success of the Project.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The GOS visibly supported the Project, beginning with the opening address given by the Deputy
Minister for Capital Investments (known as Ministry of Infrastructure at Project closure) at the
official launch of the Project in November 2004. Implementation was done by RGZ and the GOS
did not hamper progress of the Project through political intervention. It was also responsible for
the establishment of the Project Council, which proved particularly beneficial to the Project by
lobbying the Minister of Justice to ensure that the municipal courts transferred the land books to
RGZ.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
As noted, RGZ was well motivated in creating the nationwide REC. The advice given and the
actions agreed upon in the aides memoires were followed up and performance was generally
rated better than for previous missions. Most ratings were judged as satisfactory or moderately
satisfactory. The political vacuum after the national elections in 2007 caused delays and
management of RGZ changed three times during the Project, but has remained steady for the past
five years.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
With the completion of the REC and the general satisfaction demonstrated by the latest customer
survey, RGZ had shown its commitment to the Project. Cooperation between RGZ and the Bank
was satisfactory throughout the Project’s execution.

6. Lessons Learned

The lessons learned were:

   •   The Project was assisted by existing institutional arrangements and a satisfactory legal
       framework before its appraisal. The SSCR law had embraced the single-agency model for
       cadastre and land registration and the Government of Serbia had given the Project its full
       support. The lesson learned is that agreed institutional arrangements, legal framework, a
       viable single agency and government commitment are basic prerequisites for
       implementing cadastre and land registration projects.

   •   The Republic of Serbia had achieved good donor coordination in the area of cadastre and
       land registration; the Bank’s involvement provided a framework for project interaction
       with parallel donors. Good coordination of parallel funding is a requirement for the
       implementation of a successful project.


                                               19
•   Cost recovery was one of the specific tasks of the Project, resulting in financial
    independence from government. This goal was waived during the Project, due largely to
    the effects of the financial crisis on the real estate market and the resulting loss of
    potential income due to registration of fewer transactions. However, in the course of the
    Project, RGZ had taken over responsibility for a number of new and existing land-related
    activities from other public institutions, requiring additional public funding and thereby
    becoming more dependent on government. The lesson learned is that, if RGZ truly seeks
    financial independence, it should concentrate its efforts on its facilitating role in the land
    market and charging acceptable fees for registering property and mortgages. Fees need to
    be underpinned by the internal costs of RGZ requiring understanding of production
    norms, a cost-recovery plan and legislation to separate RGZ financially from government.

•   On the development of ICT, the roles of the client, the contractor and the Bank should be
    improved and recognized during the implementation of the Project.
       o The capacity of the client to manage large ICT contracts needs more support from
           independent ICT specialists. The client should be aware of the complexity of
           managing large ICT contracts and have more training to support him in this task.
           The client can then be more critical in monitoring the contents and progress of
           such contracts, scrutinize the reports produced by the contractor throughout the
           Project and take remedial steps if necessary.
       o Interaction between the client and the ICT contractor needs to be strengthened,
           starting from the beginning of the contract; the contract should not be treated as a
           turn-key project. The lesson learned is that the client and contractor should form
           managerial and technical commissions to discuss and monitor the software to be
           produced by the contractor and the data to be supplied by the client.
       o The PAD had noted a substantial risk in the implementation of the ICT system,
           and international technical assistance and supervision from the Bank were advised
           as risk mitigation measures. The Bank provided support on ICT issues during the
           missions and generally provided good advice. In view of the complexity of
           developing ICT systems a greater level of monitoring between the supervision
           missions would have been advisable and more insistence that the Borrower
           regularly utilizes external support for ICT project management would have been
           useful. As the Bank supports many projects involving ICT, it would be worth
           considering having full time expertise at the Bank to monitor how the various ICT
           systems are being managed.
       o Agreements on major project issues/activities should be detailed and documented
           with precision so as to avoid any misinterpretation later on. The client should
           keep sufficient written notes of the progress, challenges and agreements made
           during the ICT development.

•   The PAD did include establishment of a user council (Expert Advisory Group) to provide
    feedback to RGZ about client issues. Such a forum is necessary to understand the
    functioning of the real estate market and to initiate development of products for which
    there is a demand. On the other hand, the market can understand the internal challenges
    faced by the government organization. Dialogue creates understanding of each others’
    needs, and creates a mechanism for common planning for solutions to joint problems.

                                             20
       The role of the user council as a discussion forum and advisor to public and private
       sectors of the market was never fully understood by either sectors, and only two meetings
       took place. The lesson learned is that a common forum for public/private dialog is
       relevant for the development of real estate markets and should receive maximum
       attention in project preparation.

   •   There was a small research and development (R&D) component in the Project. However,
       R&D deserves more attention and needs to be promoted. A land registration and cadastre
       organization in any country is a key player in the real estate market and by nature and law
       it collects much data on property transfers and mortgages. This basic information can be
       aggregated and analyzed for statistical use for government, the private sector and the
       general public. RGZ could research the needs for generic data by its users through a
       marketing-, communications- or research and development department, thereby
       increasing its income and facilitating the functioning of the market by providing access to
       its accumulated data.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
RGZ thanked the World Bank team for the wholehearted support and professionalism that made
outstanding results possible during project implementation. Benefits of this project are of great
importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and development of the real estate market, as
the main driver of economic development.

Project implementation analysis in all segments was satisfactory which makes RGZ very proud
and at the same time grateful for such assessment. Most of the project goals had been
significantly exceeded, including the creation of REC in the Republic of Serbia.

Successful project implementation helped Serbia to make significant progress in the area of
registration services improvement; according to the Doing Business 2012 study conducted by the
World Bank, where Serbia jumped from a rank 97 to 38 in one year. At the same time, the RGZ
ranks third among Serbian institutions for citizens’ confidence.

Successful project implementation has provided conditions for further improvement in the field
of land administration and land resources management. RGZ will therefore continue its strong
support to all activities in the domain of land administration and land resources management.



(b) Cofinanciers
Although the Project enjoyed the donor support from Norway, Sweden, Germany, France, Japan
and the European Commission, there were no Cofinanciers within the Project. An overview of
donor support is given in Annex 2.a.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
No comments were received.



                                               21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage of
           Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                                 Appraisal
                                                                millions)

Operational Development and
                                             29.015                 32.372               112
Support
Capacity Building and
                                              5.043                  4.128                82
Institutional Strengthening

                Total Baseline Cost          34.058
Physical Contingencies
                                              1.434
Price Contingencies
                                              4.021
               Total Project Costs           39.514                 36.50                 92
        Total Financing Required             30.00                  29.30                 98



(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of                                   Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                Estimate       Estimate
                                          Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                   9.51           7.20            76
International Development Association
                                                            30.00            29.30             98
(IDA)




                                                 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Operational Development and Support.

This component consists of seven sub-components:

A.1. Control network improvements, including support for the continuous operating network of
     GPS stations;

At the start of the Project, there were three map projection systems in Serbia, creating problems
in relating geographic data to one single reference. To eliminate this problem, RGZ was already
developing a primary nationwide geodetic network which was connected to the European
Reference System called EUREF 2. To facilitate the rapid application of modern and efficient
surveying technologies for cadastre works, the real time satellite positioning system AGROS 3
needed to be completed. This network would then form the basic geodetic infrastructure required
for the long-term operation of survey work in Serbia. Furthermore, a pricing policy for supply of
positional data to the private sector and other government bodies needed to be developed.

During the Project, AGROS was transformed by incorporating the existing private CORS
network and control system into AGROS on the basis of an agreement for shared use of the
CORS infrastructure and sharing the user fee charged according to the single schedule of fees.
The joint network now has:

a) 45 stations in 41 locations, of which 13 are GNSS 4 (8 private, 5 RGZ property), and the
   remaining 28 are GPS receiving stations;
b) 2 control centers (main center and back-up); and
c) responsibility for the maintenance of the surveying reference system of the Republic of
   Serbia.

The joint network is functioning well and has received high international recognition, as
demonstrated by the appointment of RGZ as a Local Analysis Centre in the region, controlling
42 regional stations in the EPN (the EUREF Permanent Network). The agreements for data
exchange with the neighboring countries are ongoing and will be concluded in 2012. To support
the direct data exchange from other networks, RGZ will have to finalize the acquisition of
software licenses for the use of the respective stations under the Project.

The sub-component has exceeded significantly its target value of constructing 27 CORS stations
covering the territory of Serbia, and maintaining 30 CORS stations. The forthcoming
replacement of the GPS stations with GNSS stations will follow a step-by-step approach, such an
investment emphasizes the requirement for better financial independence of RGZ.




2
    EUREF stands for the International Association of Geodesy (IAG) Reference Frame Sub-Commission for Europe
3
    The Serbian Continuously Operating Reference Station (CORS) Network to improve the accuracy of surveying.
4
    Global Navigation Satellite System

                                                      23
Swedish support was valuable in providing expertise in densification of the CORS network,
capacity building and customer-oriented services. At the end of the Project, 282 paid clients were
making regular use of this data, and this number was still growing. Free data was provided to
universities and government departments. This component has exceeded the target values
significantly, and is assessed as “very successful?. With the establishment of the AGROS system,
a first prerequisite for establishing a National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI) has been
provided. This is in accordance with the European INSPIRE directive of March 2007, requiring
the establishment of this infrastructure within five years.

A.2. Digital cadastre mapping (up-dating and conversion; renewal);

The establishment of the REC requires cadastral maps in digital format. The conversion process
of the analog (paper-based) maps requires two phases: (i) scanning to raster format, and (ii)
vectorization of the cadastral boundaries.

The Project targets for building the digital cadastre mapping capacity were achieved in all
aspects, as follows:

 i. mass scanning of cadastre map sheets was completed for 100% of the territory of Serbia,
    largely exceeding the target;
ii. vectorization of cadastre mapping was completed as follows:

              Map Scale                    Result                  Target
              1:1000                       62,986 ha (154%)        41,000 ha
              1:500                        8,218 ha (103%)         8,000 ha*
              1:2500                       1,862,114 ha (3,948%)   46,000 ha

              * reduced at Mid-Term Review from 16,000 hectares

The cadastre map conversion program was achieved and significantly exceeded the Project
targets, on its way to delivering cadastre map services and maintenance by digital technology on
the basis of the planned complete digital cadastre mapping coverage of Serbia by the end of 2013,
using RGZ’s own resources. Digital vectorized cadastre maps are officially maintained in 1,529
CMs (33.8%) and are at an advanced vectorization stage in another 801 CMs (17.7%); by the end
of the Project, digital mapping technologies are used for service delivery and map maintenance
in more than 50% of the CMs (41% of the territory).

In parallel, RGZ has very successfully coordinated the inputs from several donors (Japan,
Norway, EU, France) in the field of digital topographic mapping, large-scale orthophoto
mapping, Geographic Information System (GIS) and remote sensing applications, thus making
successful steps for the establishment of the fundamental data sets in the course of development
of the Serbian NSDI. The Japanese JICA 5 project, which supported the development of the state
base (topographic) map at 1:10,000 and 1:5,000 scales, was successfully completed, and final



5
    Japanese International Cooperation Agency

                                                    24
results were officially reported in February 2012. The EU-CARDS 6 project, which financed the
production of digital orthophotos for Serbia, was completed and all orthophoto maps covering
Serbia with resolution of 40 cm for non-urban areas and 20 cm or 10 cm (Belgrade) for urban
areas are now accessible on RGZ’s website. The French project took aerial photos in the
southern part of Serbia in October 2011, and the first satellite imagery, remote sensing and
LiDAR 7 tests and trainings were realized.

A.3 and A.4      Real estate cadastre (REC) formation involving data collection, delimitation,
                 adjudication, survey and registration, including Belgrade;

In December 2003, data on real estate had been established in 44.4% of the 4,521 CMs,
particularly in the rural areas. In order to complete the REC for the whole country, two
procedures were agreed upon; (i) an accelerated procedure for 30% of CMs, and (ii) a public
display procedure only for 70% of CMs. In terms of priorities for the implementation of the REC,
the SSCR law 1992 and amendments of 2002 specified a priority to finalize the cadastre
mapping coverage by 2005 in those rural CMs where no land book existed and which were to be
subject to the accelerated procedure.

RGZ undertook the REC creation for rural CMs using its own resources, forming commissions
consisting of a lawyer, a surveyor and a local representative. The Project concentrated on urban
areas, where the legalization of illegal buildings, the expected privatization of urban land, and
the emerging real estate market demanded quick action. The Project targets were to complete the
REC for approximately 1,940 sq km of urban land within 54 selected urban municipalities and
37 CMs within the city of Belgrade. Registration was limited to cadastral data and land books,
but did not include land use and fertility grades for simplification purposes.

The establishment of the REC by accelerated procedure did not include public display. However,
owners and users were notified by mail and public posting. The SSCR Law provided for a 5-year
period to correct errors in the rights or the parcel recorded in the REC. All the rest of the
updating, including surveys of buildings, was left for registration on demand and performed by
the private sector surveyors. As this work was technically and legally more straightforward and
carried out with RGZ’s own resources, the Project concentrated on sites that required conversion
of land book data and the full public display and adjudication procedure. The 91 CMs were
selected on this basis.

With reference to the CMs where REC creation was supported by the Project, the REC was fully
established in the 134 8 CMs added to the Project in 2007, and in all 91 CMs– both in greater
Belgrade (Component A4) and the 54 towns (Component A3). This achievement, and
particularly the full REC coverage of Belgrade within the last two years of the Project, exceeded


6
   Community Assistance for Reconstruction, Development and Stabilization, an EU instrument for financial
assistance in the Western Balkans
7
   Light Detection and Ranging, an optical remote sensing technology that can measure the distance to a target by
illuminating the target with light, often using pulses from a laser (Source: Wikipedia)
8
  The municipal courts handed over the Land Books only in 2009, making it necessary for RGZ to extend the
number of CMs to areas not covered by the Land Books so as to allow the commissions to continue their work.

                                                        25
the original Project targets by more than twofold and within the original Project budget. This was
a highly commendable Project output.

Thanks to the dedication and full mobilization of RGZ for the completion of the REC before
Project completion, coverage expanded dynamically and was completed for all 4,521 CMs in
Serbia. RGZ had redirected its human resources flexibly to problematic areas, and completed all
REC creation work by the Project completion, thus very successfully achieving this paramount
target.

A.5. Improving Registration Services to the Public;

The economic impact of the Project was to be greatly influenced by the quality of service, timely
provisions of services and the perceived legal integrity of the property rights record. To gain
public confidence in the unified system and the unified records of the REC, RGZ needed to
establish respect for the legal integrity of its property rights records. The process of registration
of the transfer of rights (including mortgages and leases) must be seen by the public to be simple,
legally sound, inexpensive, rapid and reliable. At the start of the Project, RGZ offices were still
developing and improving their procedures and office infrastructure, and the aim was to provide
client accepted records in a user-friendly environment and a ‘five day’ registration service for a
standard transaction involving no boundary changes.

Despite the very positive improvements in the efficiency of registering property transactions in
Serbia, as reflected in the 2012 Doing Business survey, the last M&E report showed that the
target service standard of five days for registration had not been achieved at Project completion.
This was due in the first place to the lack of unified software and modern ICT system for REC,
but also to the mobilization of all RGZ resources in the REC creation, which had reduced RGZ’s
capacity to speed up registration services for maintenance registration. However, RGZ
management confirmed their commitment to meeting this service standard even without a new
unified software solution. RGZ has taken certain steps to improve the time for registration by:

  i.    introducing the ‘fast track’ procedure, with a higher fee, for a standard sale registration;
 ii.    establishing RGZ ‘windows’ in urban municipalities in Belgrade and other municipalities
        with a high transaction rate, where citizens could submit their request for cadastre
        service; and
 iii.   introducing a system for citizens to receive text message notifications when their request
        had been processed.

The trend shown in the last year for quick growth in the demand for REC services with the
successful completion of REC was reinforced by reported increased activity of the Serbian real
estate markets in the last months of the Project.

Throughout the Project, a total of 39 LCOs benefited from renovation works done mainly on the
client service area; this included two newly-constructed buildings.




                                                 26
A.6. Information and communications technology (ICT) systems modernization for REC;

The modernization of the ICT system was a requirement to improve the REC services to the
public, making it possible for the individual LCOs to operate more efficiently and effectively.
The system was to be integrated with other RGZ activities and to be linked to other government
services, such as planning or property tax collection. This would facilitate WEB based
technology for providing information to the public and professional users, a standard objective
seen internationally.

The project component included the supply of hardware, software development for the
integration of alphanumerical and graphical data into one database, communication equipment,
and development of local area network (LAN) and Wide area network (WAN) for the selected
52 LCOs. All of the above plans, with the exception of the software development, were carried
out for 66 offices, thereby exceeding the target by 27%. The unified cadastre software however
was not completed and the contract with the supplier was cancelled in March 2011.

The contract for the unified cadastre software was signed in March 2008, and planned to be
completed in April 2009. The components were (i) prototype development, (ii) data migration,
(iii) testing, (iv) pilot implementation, (v) roll-out in two phases – phase one in the 45 selected
high priority LCOs (10 centers and 35 offices), and phase two in the rest of the selected offices,
and (vi) training and maintenance of the new system. The Bank had noted that 13 months was a
short time frame to develop and implement the software including testing and integration of the
data, and training of RGZ staff.

A number of events took place which affected the client’s trust in the successful execution of the
contract:
   • The contractor’s project manager was changed directly after contract award, but
       eventually agreed upon by the client;
   • Severe delays in finalizing the Project Plan and the Business Analysis containing
       functional specifications and the data model resulted in the first extension of the contract;
   • The contractor’s request to remove essential modules, to add additional functionality at
       high costs and to replace the software environment for the graphical component;
   • Delivery of the software was postponed at various stages of its development. The
       software was necessary for RGZ to test the data.
   • At this stage of the contract (13 months after signing), the client sent the contractor a
       Notice of Supplier’s Default, listing all activities which the client considered to be late or
       ineffectual. The contractor accepted the claims of the client, replaced its project manager
       and presented the client a list of measures and promises for improved communications.
   • Communications did improve but not the expected progress. New software releases were
       repeatedly delayed and did not include the functionality agreed in the Business Analysis.
   • The quality of the data presented problems at this stage and after meetings between client
       and contractor on data migration issues, RGZ provided the contractor a ‘clean’ data set.
   • Using the new data in the following version of the software brought to light
       improvements in the alphanumerical part of the software but less stability of the graphical
       application compared to the earlier version of the software. And only a small number of
       the remarks made by the client had been addressed.

                                                 27
   •   In a subsequent meeting with the client, the contractor announced its wish to replace its
       subcontractor. However, besides responsibility for the graphical application, the
       subcontractor was also the main driver for the data model, the larger part of the business
       analysis and the migration. Replacement would also require further extension of the
       contract. This was not acceptable for the client.

Despite several attempts by client and contractor, and technical support of the Bank offering the
expertise of independent consultants, RGZ terminated the contract three years after its signing.
This left RGZ without the expected new software, and it had therefore to proceed with its
existing software, with limitations of efficiency and service delivery.

The first alert was given by the Bank 15 months after the contract between RGZ and the
contractor was signed, and two months after the initially planned delivery of the software. At this
stage, critical notes were made on the communication between RGZ and the contractor. Separate
missions were carried out by external consultants during the contract and objective advice was
given, such as splitting the alphanumerical component and the graphical component so as to
concentrate development of a country-wide database for alphanumerical data only. It is widely
recognized that the combination of the alphanumerical component with the graphical component
often leads to technical problems. Attention to the graphical component would follow once the
alphanumerical database was operational. However, RGZ rejected this proposed solution, having
set its goals on a unified system. During the September 2009 supervision mission, it was
accepted by all parties that an integrated system would be difficult to implement, yet the contract
was cancelled only eighteen months later. Given that the planning of the software development
was a critical issue of the Project, an alternative plan for development could have been made
during that period, in combination with an extension of the Project.

On the cancellation of the software development contract, questions need to be raised on the
roles of RGZ, the contractor and the Bank during the execution of the contract.
    • The management of RGZ changed three times during the Project and this had
        consequences for the ICT contract. The requirements were defined under different
        leadership than the implementation, creating misalignment between expectations and
        results.
    • The contractor changed its key staff directly after the contract was signed. Although
        accepted by the client, such replacement should have been scrutinized more thoroughly
        and only have been accepted after careful examination of the quality and experience of
        new staff, including a limited probation period to test capability of the execution of the
        contract. Action should have been taken earlier once it became evident that new staff was
        not suitable to carry on the assignment at hand.
    • The capacity of the client to manage large ICT contracts needs more support from
        independent ICT specialists. The client should be even more aware than it was of the
        complexity of managing large ICT contracts and have more training to support him in
        this field. He can then be more critical in monitoring the contents and progress of such
        contracts, scrutinize the reports produced by the contractor throughout the Project and
        take remedial steps if necessary. Experience in a similar project in Macedonia showed
        that an external ICT specialist was beneficial as independent quality assurance supervisor.


                                                28
      •   Communications between contractor and client were not fully effective throughout the
          contract. Although monthly reports were produced by the contractor, the intermediate
          results of the contract did not reflect the progress assumed to be made. Client and
          contractor should form managerial and technical commissions to discuss and monitor the
          software to be produced by the contractor and the data to be supplied by the client.
      •   Given the record of the failure rate of large ICT implementation worldwide, and the
          recent experience of the Bank in similar projects in Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia, the
          Bank should have been more alert in recognizing the problems in the contract and carry
          out continuous ICT monitoring by its own experts, with additional technical support by
          contracted external ICT experts. The PAD had noted a substantial risk in the full
          implementation of the ICT system and international technical assistance and supervision
          from the Bank were advised as risk mitigation measures.

RGZ adjusted its ICT strategy a month prior to project completion, but more attention needed to
be given to important management capacities such as planning, financing, human resources and
method of implementation. The Bank provided support in defining these criteria but the ICT
implementation fell outside the time limit of the Project. In 2012, RGZ is seriously considering
the application of FLOSS 9 software development techniques, similar to the ones employed in the
FAO SOLA project 10 as an alternative.

A.7. Provision of legal extension services for low-income property owners.

RGZ developed a Strategy for Legal Aid to Individuals with Rights in Immovable Property in
Serbia in 2006, thus meeting one of the required targets. This strategy, however, was not
implemented after two failed selection procedures for consultants to implement the strategy. An
independent review in 2009 concluded that RGZ had met the requirements of the DCA’s legal
aid covenant through the legal aid services provided directly by staff of RGZ. The following
missions verified that free legal aid services were rendered in all LCOs, and the services were
satisfactory. The number of the LCOs was 158 until the 2011 reorganization at RGZ, which
plans to reduce this number to 38 regional offices, with support of 120 outlying servicing
bureaus. There are 61 LCOs that provide legal aid and regularly report on it to RGZ’s head office.
Thus, the target for this subcomponent, which is to expand legal extension to 30 cities and towns,
has been exceeded in the Project. The M&E officer in the PIU regularly monitored the number of
offices reporting legal aid delivery as well as the type and number of requests in these offices,
and analyzed the data for eventual improvement of the service. Since the establishment of the
monitoring system for this type of legal services at RGZ in August 2009, there were nearly
15,000 cases reported of requests for legal aid being met.

The findings of the second customer satisfaction survey in May 2011showed a high satisfaction
rate among customers who used the RGZ legal aid. Of those who used it, 74% were satisfied or
very satisfied, which is an excellent result. However, there is a low awareness among citizens


9
     Free / Libre Open Source Software. This entails the use of free software licenses and keeping the development
     tools or code openly available to an agreed group of developers.
10
     Solutions for Open Land Administration of Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO),
     http://www.fao.org/nr/tenure/sola/en/

                                                          29
about this service. Some 72% of citizens interviewed did not know about the legal aid provided
by RGZ, while 86% said that they would have used it had they known about it. Several
recommendations on improving legal aid service were made on the basis of the survey results,
such as:

   i.   extending working hours for legal aid;
  ii.   providing more lawyers in the LCOs where the demand is high; and
 iii.   providing the staff working on legal aid with training on communication skills, etc.

Component B: Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening.

This component consists of eight sub-components:

B.1. Strategy and business plan development and implementation including a cost recovery
     strategy, and business process improvements;

RGZ developed a long-term corporate strategy (2006-2015) early on during the Project. With the
financial crisis, a new strategy had to incorporate its effects on the business of RGZ and its
ambitions as an executive agency with financial independence. An extensive Strategic Business
Plan 2010-2014 was prepared in 2009, covering both technical and financial issues. Market
research was done on the current products of RGZ and new products analyzed for use in the
public and private sectors. One of the conclusions was that self-financing was not feasible given
the current financial situation in Serbia, and the plan forecasted 2013 to be the first possible year
for self-sustainability. RGZ is strongly committed to independence and is currently preparing
plans to become financially independent in that year.

The Bank supported the advice given and the standpoint of RGZ by waiving the requirement to
become an executive agency before Project completion. Financial independence could be
adopted in incremental phases, as carried out in Slovenia in the beginning of the last decade. In
the immediate future, this would assure the sustainability of investments made so far in
technology and equipment modernization, office renovation, digital archive, etc. At completion,
the organization was about 70% self-supporting, but all funds generated are channeled directly to
the government. In return, RGZ receives a budget for carrying out its legal tasks in accordance
with the Law on State Survey and REC of 2009, but investments in, for example, new AGROS
stations and computer hardware and software will need to be considered and justified. The
economy of Serbia is expected to grow in the future and with it, the real estate market, thus
generating more potential income for RGZ in registering transfers of property and mortgages.
Once independent, RGZ could decide its own investments, based on the requirements of the
clients which it services.

The independent status would also allow development of a marketing plan in the RGZ strategy.
With the growing number of tasks of RGZ and its ambition in the future, a mechanism for
discussing the facilitating role of RGZ with the professional real estate market players and the
fellow public sector organizations will become necessary. The establishment of a reliable and
fast registration and cadastre system is a requirement for a successful real estate market, and
should facilitate the market. RGZ should take a leading role in the discussion with the partners at

                                                 30
management and implementation levels. The implementation of a marketing strategy is typically
a task reserved for staff with marketing capacities, offering the services of RGZ in accordance
with the requirements of the players of the market. Marketing personnel may also be chosen and
trained from within its current staff.

B.2. ICT strategy development and implementation;

After the cancellation of the ICT contract for software development, RGZ adjusted its strategy to
modular development of the ICT system, starting with the use of open source software for the
integration of alphanumerical and graphical data in a single database. This requires a strong ICT
team to develop such a system, which RGZ does not have in sufficient numbers. Staff are paid
two to three times less than in the private sector, and with a small number of staff with open
source knowledge, its capacity is limited. Training is given to keep personnel on board, but there
is substantial risk of losing staff. There are no plans to increase salaries of ICT staff. Under these
circumstances it is clear that RGZ will have to continue to rely on external support to develop
software both in terms of financing and in terms of technical assistance.

Prior to project completion, RGZ prepared a new ICT strategy. The Bank provided support in
defining issues relating to planning, financing, human resources and methods of implementation,
which RGZ included in its strategy plan. The ICT implementation falls outside the time limit of
the Project.

In 2011, an agreement was signed to establish an NSDI and a national geo-portal within the
context of the INSPIRE directive, using Norwegian funds. This is to be completed 31 December
2012.

B.3. Legal framework completion;

The Law on State Survey and REC entered into force on September 11, 2009. It stipulates
numerous improvements, leading towards faster and more efficient rights registration within the
REC, together with adequate resolutions to various business procedures of RGZ. The Law also
expands the range of duties of RGZ.

To implement the Law, RGZ prepared 17 regulations to further define the tasks to be done and
the legal provisions. These regulations were approved by Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and signed
by the director general of RGZ. These are:
   1. Digital orthophoto (Official Gazette RS, nr 27/10);
   2. License for geodetic organization operation and geodetic license (Official Gazette RS, nr
      33/10);
   3. Performing professional supervision and review and acceptance of work (Official Gazette
      RS, nr 43/10);
   4. Utilities survey and cadastre (Official Gazette RS, nr 63/10);
   5. Cartographic publications issuing (Official Gazette RS, nr 36/10);
   6. State border survey and register (Official Gazette RS, nr 44/10);
   7. Address register;
   8. Technical documentation for performing geodetic works and journal of works;

                                                 31
    9. Cadastral survey and Real Estate Cadastre;
    10. Method of keeping, using, presentation and issuing data held by RGZ;
    11. Geodetic-cadastral information system;
    12. Real estate appraisal;
    13. Basic geodetic works;
    14. Cadastral classification and land fertility evaluation;
    15. Topographic survey and topographic-cartographic products;
    16. Division of map sheets in state projection;
    17. Producing and maintaining geodetic bases in engineering-technical fields.

Other relevant laws which complement the legal framework on immovable property, but outside
the responsibility of RGZ are the:

-   Law on Construction and Planning, which was passed in July 2009 and regulates ownership
    of land, including land under buildings. This was in accordance with the 2006 Constitution of
    the Republic of Serbia, which reinstituted private ownership rights. It also regulates
    construction land and the legalization of buildings without building permits, making it
    possible to register this property at RGZ. Owners of illegal objects (that is, objects without
    the required building permits) are registered as holders of rights to the building but not as
    legal owners until the formalization has taken place. There is a market in these objects and
    taxes are paid when rights are transferred. The prices are lower than the official market, with
    all risks taken by the new right holder. These objects are in the process of legalization by the
    municipalities. Once building permits have been issued, the registration can take place.
-   draft Property Code which was published in draft form on the Ministry of Finance (MoF)
    website for public comment but has not been enacted.
-   Law on Restitution and Compensation, which was passed in September 2011. The GOS
    established a Restitution Agency which has issued invitations to owners of property
    nationalized after World War II to file claims for restitution for two years as from March 1,
    2012. Property to be returned or compensated includes real estate, construction land,
    agricultural land, forests, residential and office buildings, apartments, as well as movable
    property and companies. About 150,000 claims are expected, estimated at 4.5 billion Euros.
-   Law on Notaries, which was passed in 2010 and expected to be operational in September
    2012. Several seminars have taken place to inform the legal profession and train interested
    lawyers to become certified notaries. The MoJ will decide on the numbers of notaries needed
    per city or region. The notary will replace the law courts in simple issues but will not act as
    treasurer (escrow function) in the transfer of property. This will therefore simplify the
    registration of immovable property but the procedure will not change significantly.

RGZ has regularly published a bulletin on legal issues for internal and external use. At the end of
the Project, the seventh edition had been issued, and all editions have proven to be very popular.
The bulletin includes a question and answer section that staff report to be very useful.




                                                32
B.4. Customer publicity and information campaigns, including outreach to other professionals
     (real estate agents, bankers, advocates, etc.);

The social assessment at the start of the Project confirmed that the public was not aware of the
REC developments, even though more than 40% of the area of Serbia had already been recorded
in the REC. This was largely because nearly all of this area completed was rural, where
populations were less dense and transactions are rare. The project would be focusing on the more
difficult urban setting. The foreign mortgage banks had entered Serbia only in 2001 and the
property market needed to be established in combination with the legal security offered by a
well-functioning REC. The relationship between RGZ and the professional market players was
also underdeveloped at the time and much attention needed to be spent to improve the
cooperation between the public and the private sectors. At that stage, conferences had been
organized for the professional users, with television coverage, a web-site was being created, and
quarterly magazines on the activities of RGZ for professional sector were distributed. Despite
this attention, RGZ needed to create more awareness to both the professional users and the
general public.

In 2007, a Public Awareness Campaign (PAC) was initiated to raise public understanding and
mobilize support for the implementation of government reform of the real property registration
system. Specifically, the purpose of the PAC was to:

   •   educate the general public about the reforms and procedures in the country’s real
       property registration system;
   •   improve the public image of RGZ, particularly at the local level;
   •   build communication capacity in RGZ and its LCOs and at relevant ministries; and
   •   inform owners about the benefits of property registration and the establishment of an
       effective REC.

The completed products included RGZ’s visual identity, a list of FAQs (frequently asked
questions) and answers on REC, a step by step guide to REC registration, pamphlets, posters and
promotion materials, newspaper, public transport and billboard advertisements, radio and
television clips, internet banners and media coverage reports. Further products included a
brochure on the reforms in the field of property registration, a compendium of existing
regulations, a public relations manual for the work with customers, notice boards for LCOs, a
multimedia presentation and a CD business-card on REC, monthly video programs and radio
reports, and a standard form for a short TV commercial. The key awareness raising materials
were translated to Bosnian, Croatian and Hungarian languages, thus providing information to
minority groups. The PAC also made good use of events such as the opening of new LCOs or the
completion of the REC in a particular district for the purpose of public relations.

The demand for information grew significantly in the following months as a result of the PAC.
The customer satisfaction survey conducted in 2008 showed that the campaign had been noticed
and had raised the interest of the public, resulting in increased number of calls to RGZ. The
establishment of a helpdesk would have supported RGZ in successfully dealing with this
challenge but it was never set up. The increased interest also showed that the role had been


                                               33
mainly unclear; the difference between real property registration and legalization of illegal
buildings had often not been recognized.

For the professional players of the market and European partners, RGZ published biannually a
professional journal GeodetskaSluzba (Geodetic Service) in both the Serbian and English
languages on the developments on geodesy, cartography and REC at the agency. The Bulletin of
Cadastral Legal Practice was also published biannually. For its staff and internal market, RGZ
issued the monthly magazine RGZ Info.

RGZ also maintained good communications of its core activities online. It established,
maintained and improved its website http://www.rgz.gov.rs in both Serbian and English, making
more information available to the private and professional users online, which was in line with
the recommendation of the customer satisfaction survey. Special attention to land registration
and cadastre and the role of RGZ was given in a television news program in September 2011.
The portal http://www.geomreze.rgz.gov.rs was set up specifically for professionals of the
surveying sector. It launched its geo-portal http://www.geosrbija.rs in 2011, attracting more than
600,000 visits per month with frequent positive reactions of users. In the last quarter of 2011, a
promotional film was made and put on the RGZ website 11 on the services of RGZ and the
implementation and results of the Project, including the involvement of the Bank. It attracted
significant attention and resulted in numerous interviews being given by RGZ management to
different media.

B.5. Training and human resource development;

Even as one of the larger employers in the GOS, there was little documentation on human
resources in RGZ at the start of the Project, and no defined strategy beyond systemization to
periodically review and adjust the numbers and caliber of staff. The GOS had developed a
human resource management system for placement in ministries and agencies, and a training
plan had to be developed at RGZ to comply with this system.

Other donor support (EU, Sweden, Norway, Germany and France) also contained some form of
training, and RGZ agreed with the Bank to prepare one integral training plan for all training
needs. The Bank also recommended that RGZ set up a training unit.

The training plan was developed taking into account the training needs and priorities, target
groups and selection criteria for trainers and trainees, available resources, the different donors’
training priorities and time considerations. The plan included a five year training strategy with a
timeline, necessary budget for each activity and their resources (donor support). An annual
training plan was written prior to the year of execution. A permanent training unit at RGZ was
established and a training coordinator appointed, assisted by one staff member in each
department. RGZ was strongly committed to staff training.




11
 http://www.rgz.gov.rs/template1a.asp?PageName=2011_10_03_04&LanguageID=3, and
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v119ICEr4YM

                                                 34
The training subcomponent was successfully implemented throughout the Project, with
numerous training courses, workshops, sessions and other events. Training for more than 8,000
person days were given in real estate market and administration, cadastre, registration, law and
ICT, including user ICT training and management, with hundreds of workshops and other
training events organized; thus raising the competence level of RGZ The achieved training
outputs exceeded the requirements in almost every item. Eleven areas were covered and included
REC, modern ICT concepts, software and hardware, real estate markets and valuation, study
tours and conferences, legal issues and project implementation. The evaluation questionnaires
indicated satisfaction with the level of training.

In terms of achievement of the Project targets, all of the indicators were satisfactory.

The Project also supported the first geodetic congress held in Serbia to mark 175 years of
surveying profession. There were more than 400 participants from 23 countries attending the
congress. High level government officials, representatives of the donor community and
international finance institutes attended the congress opening session, and the event attracted
substantial media coverage. RGZ presented the latest achievements of geodetic science and
profession in Serbia around five topics: 1) GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite System)
technologies; 2) INSPIRE; 3) Property valuation and management; 4) 3D cadastre; and 5)
Remote sensing as support to regional development.

B.6. Project management for both headquarters and regional offices;

The DCA set up conditions to maintain project arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. These
included a Project Council, an Advisory Expert Group and a PIU.

Prior to establishing the Project Council, a Project center was created to advance the Project
through its development. The center, whose steering committee constituted the management
board of RGZ, served as a liaison between RGZ and the PIU. The Project Council was only
established a year after the start of the Project. The Council is a high-level, inter-ministerial
committee to ensure coordination and communication among the involved ministries, and
consists of representation of Ministry of Infrastructure, Ministry of Economy and Regional
Development, and Ministry of Finance. Once established, the Council has been very beneficial to
the advance of the Project.

A representation of professionals of the real estate market met at the start of the Project, which
clearly showed the demand for consultation with users and stakeholders of the property market.
The consensus of the group was that efficient and fast registration of properties and transactions
would be a key element to promoting entrepreneurship and attracting investors. Despite the
recognition of the need for consultation, the Clients’ Advisory Group was set up only after the
Mid-Term Review of the Project in February 2008 and met only twice. This was a missed
opportunity, and cooperation with the real estate market professionals would have assisted RGZ
in developing user demands within the Project. However, in mitigation RGZ claimed that it was
difficult to get private sector people to give up their time and attend meetings. RGZ organized
two workshops in 2009 with the Advisory Expert Group and Citizens Advisory Group, with
participation by ministries, agencies, banks and scientific institutions.

                                                 35
The PIU was set up at the start of the Project, under direct responsibility of the management of
RGZ. It collaborated closely with the Project center, and met weekly with the Board of Directors
of RGZ. The PIU consisted of a project manager, a secretary/interpreter, and experts in
procurement, ICT, finances, training, surveying, civil engineering and M&E. The PIU was
responsible for administration and project management, financial management and reporting,
procurement of works, goods and technical services, technical support concerning ICT, legal
issues, cadastre and survey, project activities planning, quality control and contract
implementation, M&E and document archiving.

There were some delays in implementing the procurement activities after the highly experienced
procurement officer resigned in the last year of the Project. Although advertizing of the position
locally did not produce a satisfactory result, an experienced part-time consultant from Bosnia and
Herzegovina was contracted for the remainder of the Project. While the procurement specialist
provided support with the preparation of tender documents, evaluation and reporting, the daily
contract management and procurement supervision continued to be a task shared between the
members of the PIU and coordinated by the head of the PIU.

The overall Project management throughout the Project was satisfactory.

B.7. Research and development;

RGZ does not have a special organizational unit that deals with R&D; this task is entrusted to
each organizational unit within the RGZ and within each organizational unit’s scope of
competences.

In 2007, RGZ investigated the increased scope of work and workload for the REC when the land
books offices were to close and hand over the books to RGZ. A pilot project was planned in
2008 to test sporadic, on demand registration. Tests were also planned to utilize existing
orthophoto maps in Belgrade and Niš to improve the rate of completing the REC, improve
document management, understand the implications and opportunities for utilizing the
information system for multiple purposes to other agencies, and to provide model offices with
improved standards and targets. The pilot project however was not carried out when new
management decided to continue with the systematic approach of real estate registration.

Further R&D activities were implemented mostly in 2008 and 2009, and covered technical topics
such as the use of AGROS and orthophoto maps for cadastral surveys, improvement of REC
creation and maintenance procedures, and establishing the NSDI, including aspects of the
implementation of ISO 19100 Geographic Information Quality Standards. This work has had a
positive impact on the progress towards establishment of the NSDI of Serbia.

However, R&D deserves more attention and needs to be promoted. A land registry and cadastre
organization in any country is a key player in the real estate market and by nature and law it
collects much data on property transfers and registration of mortgages. This basic information
can be aggregated and analyzed for statistical use for government, the private sector and the



                                               36
general public. RGZ should research the needs for generic data by its users through its own
marketing, communications or research and development department.

B.8. Monitoring and evaluation, customer surveys, and special studies.

There are no further remarks than the ones made under Chapter 2.3 of the main report and Annex
5.




                                              37
Annex 2a. Donor support

Parallel donor support was funded by the European Union, Norway, Sweden, Germany, France
and Japan for well-defined activities. The donor support consisted of the following:

European Union - European Agency for Reconstruction

Project title             : EU-CARDS partnership program.
Worth                     : € 5 million (about USD 6.5 million)
Support provided          : Digital orthophoto map production and technology implementation
                          : RGZ was provided with production equipment for digital
                            orthophoto maps, used as a GIS basis to update existing maps,
                            transform maps into the state co-ordinate system, NSDI, urban
                            development design and planning.
Duration                  : November 2005 - December 2010.

Kingdom of Norway

Project title             : Statens Kartverk Twinning Project
Worth                     : € 2.62 million (about USD 3.28 million)
Support provided          : Support was given in the establishment of a scanning center, a
                            digital archive, a web-portal, assistance in GIS and an NSDI
                            strategy in compliance with EU- INSPIRE Directive. Further
                            support was given in the development of NSDI.
Duration                  : 2005 - 2012

Kingdom of Sweden

Project title             : Capacity building for Real Estate Cadastre and Registration Project
Worth                     : € 4.7 million (about USD 5.88 million)
Support provided          : Capacity and competence of the RGA to realize its development
                            goal is strengthened and sustained for the future. This was
                            provided by SIDA (Swedish International Development
                            Cooperation Agency) and Lantmäteriet (Swedish Mapping,
                            Cadastral and Land Registration Authority)
Duration                  : 2006 - 2012

Federal Republic of Germany

Project title             : Land management and real property registration
Worth                     : € 2.0 million (about USD 2.5 million)
Support provided          : Land management process improvement and efficacy increasing,
                            provided by GIZ (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale
                            Zusammenarbeit).
Duration                  : 2003 - 2012



                                             38
Republic of France

Project title        : Property valuation
Worth                : € 0.47 million (about USD 0.59 million)
Support provided     : Perception of valuation, collecting French experience, designing
                       methodology of (mass) valuation and legal framework; resulting in
                       a draft law with provisions for maintaining a property valuation
                       register.
Duration             : One year

State of Japan

Project title        : Project preparation using PHRD grant
Worth                : USD 0.38 million
Support provided     : Financing of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) to support the
                       GOS in the preparation of the World Bank project.
Duration             : 2003 - 2004

Project title        : Capacity Development of Digital Base State Mapping using JICA
                       funds
Worth                : € 1.5 million (about USD 1.88 million)
Support provided     : Establishment of a digital base mapping system including map
                       maintenance; assistance in making regulations; and development
                       of a training program.
Duration             : 2011 - 2012




                                        39
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The main goal of the Project was to build a more efficient property registration and cadastre
system by increasing the area covered by the REC and improving registration services, in order
to remove constraints on the development of land markets in Serbia. Implementation of the
Project was to result in benefits to individuals and society via (a) facilitated real estate
transactions consisting of property sales and leases; (b) accelerated access to building land and
land acquisitions for builders and developers; and (c) enhanced procedures for the privatization
of State-owned assets which occupy land. However, (b) and (c) were not direct mandates under
the Project objectives, and thus the Project is not judged against them. Builders and developers
were also to be able to build faster and transact more freely, owing to an enhanced process for
land acquisition that would be afforded by the unified REC supported under the project. A
reduced per unit cost of service delivery to the clients, reflected in the future fee structure of
RGZ, was to accompany these improvements.

Operating constraints on the Land Market
At the time of the Project’s inception, according to the economic annex in the PAD,
approximately one million illegally constructed buildings existed, of which 200,000 were in
Belgrade alone. The status of “land user? did not provide sufficient security to investors,
especially in the cases of property rights ambiguities, which could stifle investment. Private land
ownership needed to be reinstated in urban areas to enable the transition toward a mature land
market. Ownership rights were not secure and land management was far from optimal, with the
result that the real estate market was restrained in its functioning and domestic and foreign
investors could not invest in a reliable manner. The mortgage system was hardly available, and
mortgage owners had little security. A direct consequence was that more than 70% of apartments
had not been registered, illegal settlements and structures had been erected in the vicinity of
major large cities, and land-related civil disputes constituted at least 30% of the total cases in the
judicial system. Furthermore, data on the parcels in the cadastre did not match the data from the
land books and the situation in the field, causing long delays when the need arose to correct it.

Although some of the same constraints still remain, the situation
has greatly improved. Property rights are more secure as
conceived by the GOS; an increasingly well functioning mortgage
market has arisen; and the interest rate on mortgage loans has
decreased 222 basis points from 7.67% in 2003 to 5.45% in 2011,
which can be at least partly attributed to the trust in the now
reliable property registration and cadastre system.

According to Serbian Daily News 12, by the end of 2011, there were a total of 85,676 mortgages
in Serbia, 59,000 of which are indexed to the euro, and 22,700 tied to the Swiss franc. The
average euro-indexed loan stood at EUR 33,000 (about US$ 43,000) and the Swiss franc-tied
loan at CHF 47,000 (about US$ 51,000). The default rate on home loans was at 1.3% at the end



12
     Reported on January 18th, 2012


                                                 40
of 2011, which is below default rates on other types of lending. The State guarantees payments
of the mortgages for families with incomes lower than 150,000 dinars (about US$ 1,765) per
month at favorable interest rates at 1.5% to 4% below normal rates. The costs of the state
guarantee are 1.5% to 3% of the loan, to be paid once at loan issuance. The Government recently
made a decision to ease requirements for state home loan subsidies for prospective home owners,
and this cuts the down payment from 10% to 5% with the Government’s participation increasing
from the current 15% to 20%, as the Central Bank demanded a 20% down-payment, an amount
that is not affordable by many. Concurrently, the maximum annual interest rate for these home
loans will be lowered from the current 4.9% plus the six-month Euribor to 4.5% plus the six-
month Euribor, which is currently at 1.4%. With the government investing heavily in the home
loan subsidies, it can be expected that the number of home loans will increase in the future.

This creates an unusual relationship between the interest
rate set by the Central Bank and the interest rates charged
on home loans. Under normal conditions, the interest rates
on home loans would be expected to exceed the Central
Bank interest rate by a small margin, usually 0.5%, so that
banks are able to make a profit. Due to the subsidized home
owner rates, however, the banks in effect receive their
payback in the form of a subsidy and are mandated by law
to charge an interest rate below market rates.

While the interest rate on mortgages has decreased significantly, the security of property rights
continues to be threatened by the ongoing restitution issue, which was not to be addressed by the
Project. However, the Serbian government has recently greatly improved the environment for
security of property rights in this respect by enacting the Law on Restitution and Compensation
in September 2011. If implemented promptly and with adequate resources, this reform will help
to clarify ownership issues and thereby make property investments more secure, and therefore
more attractive to investors.

Issues over land ownership rights have been cited in the economic annex in the PAD as well as
in interviews with private stakeholders in Serbia such as the American Chamber of Commerce.
Conversion of property rights to full ownership rights was made possible under the 2009 Law on
Spatial Planning and Construction, which was a key component in the process of building more
robustness into property rights as citizens and legal entities holding use rights to real property are
now entitled to convert those rights to full ownership. However, several factors have led to
frustrations in the conversion process and have created possible threats to existing ownership
rights. These factors are: weaknesses in implementation, a lack of training of officials executing
the conversions, and the absence of critical regulations. As a result, conversions have not been
completed in a timely manner. This in turn has meant that in many cases evidence of ownership
could not be provided in time to obtain construction permits, leading to delays and cancellations
of construction activity. Progress on the implementation of regulations and guidelines with
regards to the mid-2011 amendments made to the 2009 Law on Spatial Planning and




                                                 41
Construction has been good. Valuation methods have been clarified and by September 2011, a
decree on the conversion process had been adopted. 13

The economic annex of the PAD also discussed the issue
of illegal buildings, which is still a major constraint in
Serbia today and often is a direct consequence of problems
with the issuance of construction permits. The number of
illegal properties is still commonly thought to exceed one
million. Illegal buildings generally cannot be used as
security for mortgages and are hence thought of as “dead
capital? in the words of Hernando de Soto. The loss in
foregone property tax payments for local municipality services and lost contributions from the
infrastructure fee required as part of the process for obtaining a permit can be as high as 80
million euro (about US$ 105 million) annually in taxes and 1.6 billion euro (about US$ 2.1
billion) in infrastructure fees over the last two decades.

Despite the remaining problems, the value of land and real estate has increased since Project
commencement. The global financial crisis caused prices to drop from their 2007 highs, but they
remain well above the figure for 2005, as shown on from the total value of real estate for which
transfer tax was collected by the GOS Tax Authority. Similarly, the amount of property tax being
collected by the Authority has increased, as the Authority becomes aware of more properties
through the REC.

Further, the successes of the Project can be used as the basis for resolving some of the current
land-related challenges facing the country today. The market for buying, selling and leasing real
estate is more efficient, the mortgage market has developed, government officials are well
educated and experienced, there have been positive legislative reforms in recent years, and the
REC is fully established across the country. Serbia’s progress towards EU membership has
added another positive element.

Transactions, measured as applications for change of
ownership by RGZ, have increased dramatically since the
Project’s inception; the total number of transactions in
2005 was 290,309. After a small dip due to the global
recession, the annual number of transactions was still 28%
higher at 370,947 by the end of 2010. The number of sale                            (RGZ)




transactions as recorded by the Tax Authority increased                                           (RGZ)
over 8% from 128,936 in 2005 to 140,874 by 2011.

Mortgages have greatly increased during the Project’s
lifetime. The number of mortgages registered at RGZ in


                                                                                               (RGZ)




13
     More information can be found from the Land Chapter in the Serbia Country Economic Memorandum, 2011


                                                       42
2005 was 8,664, while in 2010 it was 259% greater at 31,125, and 373% greater at 40,941 by
2011.

It should be noted that the rate of growth of the real
estate market before the financial crisis was steadily
increasing from 10% in 2006 to another 15% in 2007 in
terms of transactions recorded by the Tax Authority. The
rate of growth of mortgage transactions fell from 118%
to a still respectable 38% rate of growth in the same time
period. The crisis had devastating effects on economies
throughout the world and Serbia was no exception; while
transactions as recorded by the Tax Authority only declined at the rate of 2%, mortgages
declined at the rate of 25%. Transactions are still on the decline, suffering a drop of 13.6% when
comparing 2011 to 2008. However, recovery was quick in the mortgage market; mortgages were
growing fast at 25% in 2010 and 32% in 2011. With the measures taken by the GOS in
stimulating home ownership for the lower income bracket by the National Mortgage Insurance
Bank (NKOSK), there may be even faster rates of growth in the next few years.

RGZ has increased its efficiency in registering
transactions. In 2005, the time needed to register was
27 days per transaction and 13 days for a mortgage. By
2010, it took 23 days to register a transaction and 9
days to register a mortgage. By the end of 2011, 54% of
the transactions are registered in five days or less, and
the rest are completed within ten days, and it takes less
than eight days to register a mortgage in all LCOs. The
implementation of a new IT system, once developed,
should even further reduce the time to five days or
fewer for all offices of RGZ.

However, the cost of service delivery to the clients has not improved. Costs to register a
transaction and mortgage in 2005 were 3615.90 dinar (US$ 42.55) and 6026.50 dinar
(US$ 70.92), respectively. By 2011, the costs to register a transaction and mortgage increased to
6,872 dinar (US$ 80.87) and to 0.2% of the value secured by the mortgage, respectively, due to
high inflation in local currency and euro-denominated fees. The cost to register a property can be
as high as 17,389 dinar (US$ 204.63), which includes the cost for the geodetic survey in the field,
mapping, registering in the REC on the existing owner, and changing the ownership. With an
average monthly salary of 36,639 dinar (US$ 431.16), the cost to register a transaction is over
15% of the monthly salary and nearly 50% of the average monthly salary to register a property.
Further improvements still need to be made to bring the costs down.

As mentioned earlier in the ICR, accelerated access for builders and developers on land and
privatization of state owned land are two issues that are also still not resolved. However, these
issues were never under the direct mandate of RGZ during the Project, and they were not part of
the Project design. The 2009 Law on State Survey and REC identifies a large expanse of new
activities under RGZ mandate, including property valuation, utilities cadastre, address registry,

                                                43
land use cadastre and land consolidation. These activities should improve the current situation,
although it will take a concerted effort, and create the infrastructure for addressing the
outstanding issues.

The indicative economic rate of return (ERR) is adopted from the approach used in the PAD and
is based on an estimation of the expected impact on the overall land markets as a result of the
improvements made to the public services provided by RGZ, particularly regarding title security
and efficiency in market transactions. These improvements were measured by the increased
number of transactions as well as the average property prices, compared to baseline estimates
without the Project, the product of which would determine the total market value. In this context,
the average property price is a weighted measure for a property pool consisting of houses,
apartments, and enterprises.

The PAD estimated an ERR of 30%. The current ERR based on actual ex-post project data is
128%. The key parameter driving this analysis is the number of REC folios that were to be
completed under the Project, which was estimated at 596,000 for the Project life. However, the
amount expected to be actually completed under the project is 964,642, which is 162% above the
number assumed by the PAD, and this fundamentally changed all of the assumptions thereafter
in the model created for the PAD. Also, the number of transactions expected to be completed per
year with the Project was only 26,322 for 2011. Actual transactions in Serbia far exceeded these
expectations, reaching 140,874 in 2011. This in turn greatly increased the market turnover rates
to over 13% in 2011. Therefore, the ERR greatly exceeded the PAD’s assumptions. To control
for the fact that not all of this growth can be attributed to this Project, the incremental net
benefits to transacting parties have been reduced to only 5% of market turnover as opposed to
20% of market turnover, as assumed in the PAD and then only 70% of this was attributed to the
World Bank investment as only that is the portion of total project costs covered by the Bank loan
with the remainder provided by the GOS and parallel financing from Norway. At a discount rate
of 10%, the net present value of economic benefits directly attributable to the Project was said to
equal US$ 90 million in the PAD, three times greater than the amount of funds invested. Today,
the net present value of economic benefits attributable to the Project equal US$ 178.83 million,
which is nearly double the original target.

Please see below for the model.




                                                44
With and Without Project Comparisons Using Projections for Property Markets
                                                                                             Implementation Period                                               Operational Period
                                                                    Year 1        Year 2       Year 3      Year 4           Year 5          Year 6     Year 10        Year 15       Year 20
Number of Properties                                Unit             1,057,961   1,057,961    1,057,961      1,057,961      1,057,961      1,057,961   1,057,961      1,057,961     1,057,961

Without Project
Average Property Price (Serbia)                     US$/RSD              58366      60153           60865       77131           88456         98714      100,000        100,000       100,000
Market Turnover                                     %                     11%        11%             11%         11%             11%           11%          11%            11%           11%
Number of Transactions                              Number          116,375.71    116,376         116,376     116,376         116,376       116,376      116,376        116,376       116,376
Market Turnover (Size)                              US$ Million          6,792      7,000           7,083       8,976          10,294        11,488        11638          11638         11638

With Project
REC Expansion                                      %                       0%        24%             24%         24%             24%            5%
REC Expansion - Cumulative                         %                       5%        15%             25%         50%             75%           91%         100%           100%          100%
Properties in REC                                  Number            52,898.05    158,694         264,490     528,981         793,471       964,642    1,057,961      1,057,961     1,057,961
Properties not yet in REC                          Number            1,005,063    899,267         793,471     528,981         264,490        93,319            -              -             -
CMs                                                                      3,311      3,520           3,711       3,915           4,018         4,143
Computation For Properties (or Market Segment) in REC

Market Premium for Properties in REC                Percent             1.00%       1.00%           2.00%       2.00%          3.00%          3.00%       3.00%          3.00%         3.00%
Market Turnover with REC                            Percent            12.19%      13.61%          16.15%      13.95%         13.61%         13.32%      14.41%         15.91%        17.57%

Number of Transactions for Properties in REC        Number            6,446.80   21,600.60         42,717      73,787         107,973       128,448      152,487        168,357       185,880
Average Property Price                              US$                 58,955      60,761         62,107      78,705          91,192       101,767      103,000        103,000       103,000
Market Segment Turnover (Size) for Properties in
REC                                                 US$ Million        380.07       1,312           2,653       5,807              9,846     13,072       15,706         17,341        19,146

Computation for Properties (Market Segment) Not Yet in REC
Number of Transactions                              Number            122,489     122,403         128,152      73,787          35,991        12,426              -            -               -
Market Size                                         US$ Million          7149        7363            7800        5691            3184          1227

Recap of REC and Non-REC Market Segments
Number of Transactions                              Number             128936      144004          170869      147574         143964         140874      152,487        168,357       185,880
Market Turnover (Size)                              US$ Million         7,529       8,675          10,453      11,499         13,030         14,298       15,706         17,341        19,146
Results of Analysis

Value of Incremental Market Turnover                US$ Million        736.89     1,675.06        3,369.81    2,522.51       2,735.74       2,810.49    4,068.54       5,703.25      7,508.09

Incremental Net Benefits to Transacting Parties     US$ Million         36.84       67.00          112.33       72.07              68.39      62.46       339.05         475.27        625.67
of which attributable to Bank Loan                  US$ Million         25.90       47.10           78.97       50.67              48.08      43.91
Project Costs - IDA +GOVT                           US$ Million         -6.58       -7.28           -9.89       -7.32              -5.91      -2.54
Parallel Finance - Norway                           US$ Million         -1.25       -1.88
Cash Flow                                           US$ Million         18.07       37.94       69.08           43.35              42.17      41.37       339.05         475.27        625.67
IRR Cashflow                                               -30.00       25.90       47.10       78.97           50.67              48.08      43.91
                                                                                             NPV@10
                                                    IRR                 128%                 %                $178.83    Million


                                                                                             45
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                    Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
                          Senior Land Administration
Lynn Holstein                                                    ECSSD
                          Specialist and Task Team Leader
Victoria Stanley          Senior Analyst                         ECSSD
Miroslav Ruzica           Sr Social Scientist                    ECSSD
Ireneusz M. Smolewski     Senior Procurement Specialist          ECSPS
Jonathan Pavluk           Sr Council                             LEGEC
Jonathan Formoso          Sr Finance Officer                     LOAG3
Michael Gascoyne          Sr Financial Management Specialist     ECSPS
Miroslav Frick            Project Analyst                        ECCYU
Maria Bouquet             Lawyer and YP                          ECSSD
Rory O’Sullivan           Country Manager                        ECCYU
Stephen B. Butler         Real Estate Lawyer
Vladimir Evtimov          Cadastre and Registration Specialist    FAO
                          Project management and
Gavin P. Adlington
                          Registration Specialist
Suha Satana               Economist, FM Specialist
Rumyana Tonchovska        ICT Specialist
Ron Logan                 Institutional Specialist
Helge Onsrud              Cadastre/registration Specialist
Supervision/ICR
                          Lead Land Administration
Lynn Holstein                                                    ECSS3
                          Specialist and Task Team Leader
                          Lead Land Administration
Gavin P. Adlington                                               ECSS3
                          Specialist and Task Team Leader
Stephen B. Butler         Consultant                             MNSPR
Aleksandar Crnomarkovic   Financial Management Specialist        ECSO3
Michael Gascoyne          Sr Resource Management Officer         WBICA
Anna Georgieva            Country Sector Coordinator             ECSSD
Vivien Gyuris             Consultant                             ECSS6
Lewis Raymond Hawke       Sr Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3
Nikola Ille               Sr Environmental Specialist            ECSS3
Olivera Jordanovic        Operations Officer                     ECSS3
 Nikola Kerleta           Procurement Analyst                    ECSO2
Alexandra Cristina
                          Junior Professional Associate          ECSS3
Montealegre
Cesar Niculescu           Environmental Spec.                    ECSS3
Ireneusz M. Smolewski     Senior Procurement Specialist          ECSO2


                                          46
Victoria Stanley             Senior Operations Officer           ECSS3
Yan Zhang                    Country Sector Coordinator          EASPS
Samantha Ashley De Martino   Junior Professional Associate       ECSS3
Johannes M.A. de Jong        Sr Land Administration Specialist   ECSS3
Mika Tőrhőnen                Land Specialist                      FAO
Chukwudi Okafor              Social Specialist                   ECSS3
Rumyana Tonchovska           ICT Specialist                       FAO
Ron Logan                    Institutional Specialist            ECSS3
Suha Satana                  Economist                           ECSS3
Angelo Durso                 Cadastre Consultant                 ECSS3
Jűrg Kaufmann                Geodesist Consultant                ECSS3
Tony Lamb                    Legal Consultant                    ECSS3
Vladimir Evtimov             Land Specialist                      FAO
Tuomo Heinonen               Real Estate Market Specialist        FAO



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                            39.9                    129.08
  FY04                                            20.7                    291.67
                             Total:               60.6                    420.75
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                           1.0                        6.38
  FY05                                          25.9                      134.43
  FY06                                          31.3                      102.75
  FY07                                          21.2                      105.77
 FY08                                           22.7                      110.03
  FY09                                          33.9                      139.07
  FY10                                          28.0                      144.12
  FY11                                          21.4                      118.73
  FY12                                          21.2                       80.93
                             Total:            206.6                      942.21




                                             47
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Before starting the Project, a broad social assessment related to land issues was carried
out. The assessment was done among 1,000 randomly chosen persons living throughout
Serbia. One of the most important issues raised was the problem of buildings constructed
without the required construction and development permits, including extensions,
alterations or reconstructions. In Belgrade, some 200,000 apartments and houses are
estimated to be illegally built, and 1,250,000 in the whole of Serbia. The challenge to
legalize these constructions was considered too large to solve at the time of preparing the
Project. There was no institutional and legal framework in place to solve the issue, nor
was there a solid recognition and wish of government at all levels to resolve the problem.
However, the GOS recognized the importance of an effective national property rights
system as a prerequisite for economic growth and broadening economic prosperity
through land and housing development, wise stewardship of natural resources, increased
use of property as collateral for credit purposes, increased property tax collection, and
efficient land markets. Further, a property rights system would form the basic
infrastructure for the legalization of illegal constructions.

Further, the survey showed that the general public had difficulties distinguishing between
legalization and registration of real property, presenting a challenge for RGZ to inform
both the public and the real estate professionals such as brokers, lawyers and mortgage
bankers, and to monitor customer satisfaction during project progress.

During the Project, customer satisfaction surveys were carried out in 2008 and in 2011.

Customer satisfaction survey 2008
At the time the survey was done, Serbia was enjoying a growth rate of 7.5% of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) and the majority of interviewees were of the opinion that Serbia
was moving forward in development. Net wages had doubled since the survey held in
2004 and the number of persons entering the residential property market was growing.
Although only 26% of the population was aware of REC restructuring, 98% of the
citizens said that registration should take place at a single organization.

The survey showed that the public needed to be better informed on the implications of
registering property; 67% thought their property was registered; 70% thought they would
benefit from cadastre reconstruction; 80% had faith in what RGZ was doing; and 77%
were satisfied with the overall service of RGZ. However, the professional users and the
private citizens who had been in contact with RGZ noted a number of problems. These
were the quality of information provided, the complexity of procedures, inconsistent
expertise of staff in providing correct information quickly, courtesy of staff, unfriendly
reception areas, short visiting hours, long queues and the price of services.

Customer satisfaction survey 2011
The results of the third customer satisfaction survey ranked RGZ third among the most
trustworthy institutions in the country, immediately after the church and the police. The
survey provided a valuable input on how to address both short-term and long-term



                                            48
operational issues that RGZ still had to address, and entailed a broad spectrum of issues
requiring policy formation by government. A general complaint by the public was that
the REC registration was too complicated, despite the attempt by the 2009 Law on State
Cadastre and REC to simplify procedures. Other areas for improvement, based on the
survey findings, were RGZ’s communication program to regularly update the progress of
key RGZ activities to the stakeholders; monitoring of public perception of RGZ
activities; and managing expectations in relation to benefits from land administration.




                                           49
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A stakeholder workshop was held on May 23, 2012, attended by 30 persons,
predominantly from the private sector and universities. The improved services offered by
RGZ were much valued by the stakeholders of the real estate market. Suggestions were
made for RGZ to show more presence at business forums and to interact more frequently
with the private sector. Prices of services offered by RGZ should be published on its
website. In response, RGZ said that services depend on a number of variables, making
publication complicated. Other suggestions were made on more online information,
stronger involvement of the private sector, particularly surveyors, which are currently
estimated at 1,500 professionals, and implementation of land consolidation tools.

A quick assessment of the real estate market was prepared at the end of the Project to
report on the status of the market and the satisfaction of the professional customers at
completion of the Project. The study noted that there is more clarity in the legal
framework on the registration of property, making for faster procedures and improved
quality. The market players also recognize that the speed of registration will be increased
in the future now that the REC has been fully created.




                                            50
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The decade following the breakup of former Yugoslavia had been very difficult for the
Republic of Serbia. Conflicts in the region, inefficient economic management, week
governance and international isolation had contributed for the GDP to drop to less than a
half of the 1989 value, with the external debt exceeding 130 percent of GDP and annual
inflation higher than 113 percent. Statistical data for 2002 indicate that 10 percent of
citizens of the Republic of Serbia lived in absolute poverty, with some 600,000 refugees
and IDPs placing additional pressure on overloaded social services.

The consequences of this situation were:
     • More than 75 percent of apartments had not been registered in a sustainable
        registration system;
     • Land transactions in rural areas had not been legally registered for the most part;
     • Vast number of illegally developed buildings – there were some 1,200,000 in
        Belgrade only;
     • Unfinished cases had been piling up in municipal courts, with some 20 percent of
        disputes relating to land or property (records);
     • Cadastral maps were outdated or incomplete and there was no match between
        land parcel in land cadastre offices and the land courts;
     • Only 20 percents of the territory had been covered by the land registry system in
        the municipal courts, while the remaining territory was covered by land cadastre
        only.
After the elections in 2000, there had been significant changes as against the 1990’s. The
average annual growth of GDP was more than 4 percent during the period 2001 – 2003,
inflation decreased to the upper single-digit level and reforms and economic restructuring
was initiated.
A reform plan by GOS was formulated early 2001, relating the following fields:
establishment of a modern State, based on the rule of the law; revitalization of the
economy; and poverty alleviation and upgrading social protection.
GOS had understood that an efficient property rights system was the prerequisite for
economic development and expansion of economic prosperity through the development
of housing settlements and commercial areas, improved natural resources management,
increased use of property as collateral and efficient property markets.
In 2002, a high-level governmental committee was established, presided by the Prime
Minister, which focused on land registration, property markets, privatization and property
rights. The government strategy also included provision of priority support for the Real
Estate Cadastre, to be established on the entire territory, and efforts to resolve the issues
of illegal development.
Amendments to the SSCR Law 1992 were passed in 2002, so as to cover the majority of
functions necessary for the introduction of a secure property rights registration system.
GOS had thereby confirmed the single institution model adopted in 1992.
In July 2002, GOS had addressed the World Bank with a request to support the resolution
of property-related issues, with the contract on credit with the World Bank signed on
June 9th, 2004.



                                             51
Project Development Objective and Key Indicators
The overall objective of the Project was to increase confidence and lower transaction
costs by building a more efficient property registration and cadastre system, with the
purpose of contributing to the development of effective real property market.
To achieve this objective, the Project would support both operational tasks and
improvement of the REC, as well as institutional development of RGZ. To achieve
sustainability of the integrated cadastre and land registration system at RGZ and its local
offices, the Project would support business process improvement and accelerated transfer
of the registry system from the courts to RGZ.

Key performance indicators were:
       1) increase in the number of transactions occurring in land and real estate, and
           increased volume of mortgages;
       2) increased satisfaction with services provided by the registry and cadastre
           systems. Intermediate Operational Development results will be measured by:
               a. percentage completion of the real estate cadastre;
               b. overhauled RGZ offices with modern ICT system.
Intermediate Institutional Development results will be measured by:
    a) reduction in transaction turn-around times; and
    b) percentage of customer satisfaction with services provided.

Increase in transaction number
Data collected during project implementation (2005 – 2012) indicate constant growth in
number of transaction, except for the period of global economic crisis.

Customer satisfaction
Ownership of real estate is relatively widely present among the adult population in
Serbia; bearing in mind that ¾ of citizens own some type of real estate.
Citizens mostly note the importance of property rights registration, believing that it is
important to register property rights for each real estate, for the purpose of efficient
property rights protection. In the opinion of most of the citizens, local real estate cadastre
offices of RGZ were perceived to be responsible for property rights registration.
Apart from positive valuation of reform influence, citizens generally had optimistic
attitudes regarding sustainability of this reform in Serbia.
On the level of confidence of citizens in public institutions, RGZ was placed third,
together with the police, directly after the institutions with traditionally the highest level
of citizens’ confidence, such as church and military. This is considered a success and
reflects optimism in Serbia’s economic future, despite the generally negative perception
of the citizens of Serbia on the current economic situation. Another success factor was
the perceived satisfactory quality of services provided by local RGZ offices.

Service Provision Quality
The quality of services provided by the RGZ was reflected through a number of project
developments. Reconstructed offices facilitate easy access to information and provide
pleasant atmosphere at all local offices with skilled and friendly staff. Users of the local
cadastre offices are familiar with services that offices provide. Citizens are generally



                                             52
satisfied with services provided, but simplicity of registration and the time needed for
resolution of individual claims would improve the score.
The use of internet is relatively low in Serbia, with only a little more than one-third of the
adult population making use of this form of information resources. Citizens who have
visited the website of RGZ usually consult the basic information about REC at least once.
This includes addresses and contact information about services of RGZ and forms for
submitting requests. The quality of internet services is highly valued. On the other hand,
RGZ developed a wide range of service for the professional users including banks, real
estate agencies, surveying companies etc. Services include the central register of
mortgages, the NSDI portal and the geo-portal.

Percentage of the Real Estate Cadastre Established
At the end of the Project, REC had been established for 99.4% of Serbia, significantly
exceeding the original project plans. The remaining 0.6 % will be completed by August
2012.

Decrease of Time Necessary for Transaction Registration
Citizens can obtain advice from RGZ experts regarding issues in the field of property
rights registration. Clients with the prerequisites and knowledge may access the REC data
online. Property rights registration has been simplified and accelerated. Most of the local
offices complete secondary transactions within 5 days.




                                             53
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The GOS was the only cofinancier of the Project, with financial input of 5.74 million
Euro’s (USD 7.2 million). RGZ was the beneficiary and partner.

A number of activities related to the project were financed by other donors and described
in the report.




                                           54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, Serbia and Montenegro, Real Estate Cadastre and
Registration Project for Serbia, April 26, 2004 Report 28484

Loan Agreement and amendments

Borrower’s Project Implementation Plan and annexes, March 2004

Annual Work Plan RGZ

Monitoring and Evaluation Reports

Project Annual Reports

Aides Memoire, ISRs for the Project

Review of Legal Aide Services, January 2010

Country Economic Memorandum, December 2011

UNECE Country Profile on Housing Sector for Serbia and Montenegro, 2006

Five-Year Strategic Business and Annual Business Plan of RGZ, March 2010

Technical Report, Project Monitoring and Evaluation and Real Estate Markets, Feb 2009

Country Partnership Strategy, 2008 – 2011, 2012 – 2015

RGZ Bulletin 2010

Doing Business Report 2012

Customer Satisfaction Reports 2008 and 2011

Quick Assessment of the Serbian Real Estate Markets, March 31, 2012




                                         55
