                                                                                                               99814
Information About Property in Serbia is a Click Away
Vesna Kostic, Sr Communications Officer in the World Bank
Belgrade Office, offers this story.
                                                                    Photo Gallery
An eight-story apartment building stands at number 42
Radovana Simića—Cige Street in Belgrade, the capital of
Serbia. Built between 1975 and 1976, tenants moved in the
following year.

Until a year ago this apartment building didn't officially exist.
The property registration records said a small house stood on
that plot of land.

This is an example of the state of property registration in         Related Links
Serbia until recently. When Serbia started land administration
reforms in 2004, only nine percent of all cadastre                  The World Bank in Serbia
municipalities had unified and updated property and                 Real Estate Cadastre and Registration
ownership records. Many land transaction records were               Project
incomplete, out of date, or not noted at all.
                                                                    Republic of Serbia Project Website
The situation was the worst in cities, with fewer than 30           Republic Geodetic Authority
percent of apartments registered in any of the viable               Ministry of Environment, Mining and
registration systems. The procedure was so gruesome and             Spatial Planing
lengthy that no one wanted to bother.

                         Nada Poljak, a 59 year old travel agent, was among the people who never
                         cared much about registering her most valuable asset—an apartment in
                         downtown Belgrade. Then a few years ago, she decided to open her own
                         private business. She needed collateral for a bank guarantee. Her cozy
                         apartment was an obvious choice.

                       "At the time, all the hassle I went through when registering the ownership of the
                       previous apartment came back to me. My God, I thought, it would take me ages
Nada Poljak            to get a property folio. I will have to run around from courts, to municipalities, to
                       cadastre, and back. But once I started doing it, I found the things have
improved dramatically and I had the property folio in my hands within a few days."

                         Nada is only one among millions of Serbian citizens who are benefiting from the
                         modernization of the system of property rights registry in the country which
                         happened thanks to reforms taken by the Government of Serbia and supported
                         by the World Bank through the Real Estate Cadastre and Registration Project.

                        Milica Tomić, an associate lawyer in the "Miljan Miljanić Law Office" explains
                        how messy the starting point was: "Before, you really needed a proper guide to
                        take you by the hand from one government institution to another if you wanted to
Milica Tomić            achieve anything. Even then you couldn't be sure the job would be done since
                        records were incomplete, often out of date, and sometimes didn't exist. Now
you have all the data updated and gathered at one place."

                         Tanja Tasić, the head of the department in the Republican Geodetic Authority,
                         remembers difficulties on the other side: "Since all the data were hand written, it
                         was frequently impossible to read them, so one needed the skill of a code
                         decipherer to figure out who owns what, where, and why. Today everything is
                         digital, and with just a click of your computer mouse you have all the details
                         about any property."

                         Serbia has established a unified register for almost all of the cadastre
Tanja Tasić              municipalities.

                         "Serbia now has a unified and complete record of real estate ownership for the
              first time in its history," says Nenad Tesla, the Director of the Republic Geodetic
              Authority. "We have processed over 17 million cadastre plots and over 600,000
              mortgages. We registered over 5,000 buildings, garages, and warehouses that
              were not recorded."

              The project also supported training for more than 1,500 employees, 36 cadastre
              premises were refurbished and modernized, two new buildings were built, digital
Nenad Tesla   archives established, and a national network of 44 permanent Global
              Positioning System stations developed.
