                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27375

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-31420 TF-26597)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 32.9 MILLION (US$ 45.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                                 FOR A

                           THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT




                                              June 15, 2004




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective March 12, 2003)

                                 Currency Unit = Córdoba (C)
                                          C 1 = US$ 0.07
                                       US$ 1 = 14.74 Córdobas

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1 - June 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMUNIC   Asociación Municipalidades Nicaragüense
ASDI     Swedish International Development Agency
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDD      Community Driven Development
CEPRODEL Center for the Promotion of Local Development (Centro de Promoción de Desarrollo
         Local)
COSUDE   Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency
ECLAC    Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
ENACAL   Nicaraguan Water and Sanitation Enterprise
FISE     Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia)
GON      Government of Nicaragua
HIPC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INAA     National Water Institute
INEC     National Statistics Institute
INIFOM   Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development
IPDP     Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
KfW      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (German Institute for Reconstruction and Development)
LSMS     Living Standards Measurement Survey
MECOVI   Regional Program on Living Conditions and Poverty Survey Information
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOH      Ministry of Health
MIS      Management Information System
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PMF      Preventive Maintenance Fund
PRA      Participatory Rural Appraisal
PRODEL   Local Development Program (Programa de Desarrollo Local)
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Program
RAAN     North Atlantic Autonomous Region

RAAS    South Atlantic Autonomous Region
SIMCEP  Primary School Improvement System (Sistema de Mejoramiento de Centros Escolares de
        Primaria)
SETEC   Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
SWAP    Sector-Wide Approach Program/Project
UTM     Municipal Technical Unit (Unidad Técnica Municipal)

                             Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                Country Manager/Director:       Jane Armitage
                  Sector Manager/Director:      Ana-María Arriagada
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Andrea Vermehren

                                         NICARAGUA
                            Third Social Investment Fund Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. FISE's Contribution to Capital Investment in Health and Education       37
Annex 9. Preventive Maintenance Fund (PMF)                                       40
Annex 10. List of Consultancies and Training Financed under Credit 3142          43

Project ID: P040197                                                  Project Name: NI FISE III
Team Leader: Andrea Vermehren                                        TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: NI FISE III                                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-31420; TF-26597
   Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General water supply and sanitation: 11% ;-Other social services:
                            6%; Health: 16%; Education: 53%; Sub-national government: 14%
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Rural services
                            and infrastructure (P); Social risk reduction (P); Poverty strategy,
                            analysis and monitoring (S); Indigenous peoples (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/29/1998                                     Effective: 12/31/1998                03/25/1999
     Appraisal: 08/14/1998                                         MTR: 09/30/2000                  12/31/2000
      Approval: 11/10/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/FISE
                      Other Partners:      IDB, KfW

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S. Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:                Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Andrea Vermehren                               Willem Struben
ICR Primary Author:             Willem Struben; Lorena M.
                                Cohan; Kathryn L. Johns Swartz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Nicaragua Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia, FISE) was created by
the Government of Nicaragua (GON) in November 1990 (following a decade of civil war and accelerated
economic decline) as a temporary social safety net program to help protect and improve the standard of
living of marginal social groups during the period of economic adjustment, through the provision of
temporary employment and social and economic infrastructure and services. Over the years, it contributed
to substantial investment in priority subprojects selected by the communities of the poorer municipalities,
and transformed its focus from emergency support to poverty alleviation investments.

To continue IDA's support of the Government's poverty alleviation efforts and FISE's investment program,
the Third Social Investment Fund Project (FISE III) was prepared and approved in November 1998. The
project was designed in close cooperation with other donors, particularly the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) and the German Development Bank KFW. The main objectives were to:

(a) Provide essential small-scale infrastructure, mainly in education, health, and water supply and
sanitation (in close coordination with the responsible line agencies);
(b) Focus on the poorest communities; and
(c) Strengthen municipal management, on a pilot basis, to improve sustainability of subprojects at the local
level.

These objectives were to be achieved through targeted small-scale investments, and pilot initiatives
including: (a) strengthening municipal and community involvement; (b) addressing the deficient provision
of rural water supply; and (c) enhancing the participation of women and indigenous groups. Furthermore,
the FISE III Project was designed to improve the efficiency and equity of FISE's overall resource
allocation, increase subproject sustainability, enhance quality assurance, and expand the role of local
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in its operations at the municipal/community level.

Assessment
Considering the economic and social indicators of the country at the time FISE III was approved, the
objectives were clear, realistic, and of critical importance. Although access to basic infrastructure had
improved during FISE I and II (1990-1998), social indicators continued to be inadequate with
approximately half of the population living below the poverty line and one-fifth below the extreme poverty
line. The FISE III focus on poverty alleviation required a more comprehensive development approach,
including more systematic community participation in all phases of the subproject cycle, and a stronger
involvement of local governments. In addition, it required emphasizing water and sanitation supply, and
more effective inclusion of vulnerable groups, particularly women and indigenous.

The FISE III Project was consistent with both the Government's priorities and its strategy for poverty
reduction, and IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Nicaragua (1998). The Government's social
sector policy aimed to expand access to social services (basic education, health, and water supply);
improve efficiency and accountability (at the national and local levels) in the delivery of social services; and
focus on the most vulnerable groups that suffer from malnutrition and extreme poverty--all of which were
targeted by the FISE III Project. Furthermore, it directly supported one of the three principal objectives of
the CAS (to develop human capital and protect the poor) and, indirectly, addressed a second objective (to
develop the rural sector and strengthen environmental protection) by concentrating on the poorest
communities (located in rural areas) and including a rural water supply focus.




                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
In October 1998, just before the FISE III Project was approved, Nicaragua was hit by Hurricane Mitch,
which caused heavy rains, flooding, and landslides, particularly in the northwestern region of the country.
To address the emergency reconstruction needs in the most affected municipalities, the project focus was
temporarily concentrated on repair and clean-up activities (e.g. opening up rural access roads), and
procurement process were made more agile. These temporary adjustments were aimed at providing
immediate access to basic social services and thus consistent with the original project objectives (see also
Section 3.4), while procedures were simplified with approval by the Bank's management.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components financed with an SDR 32.9 million IDA Credit (US$45.0 million
equivalent), Government counterpart funding, and cofinancing for a total cost of US$165.7 million:

Component 1. Subprojects. (US$136.2 million; IDA US$39.7 million). This component would finance
social and economic infrastructure subprojects identified and sponsored by communities, NGOs, and/or
local government representatives. Most of the demand was expected to be for: (a) education (construction,
rehabilitation, and expansion of schools and related subprojects); (b) health (construction and rehabilitation
of health posts and centers, as well as latrines and related subprojects); (c) water supply and sewerage
(construction and improvement of water supply and sewerage infrastructure in rural areas with
concentrated populations; and a special effort to increase the number of subprojects in rural areas with
isolated populations); and (d) social subprojects (construction of and equipment for child-care centers,
shelters, and homes for the elderly, family gardens, and maternity homes).

Component 2. Capacity Building of Municipalities/Communities. (US$5.6 million; IDA US$0.6
million). These pilot activities would finance: training activities for municipalities and beneficiaries;
activities in micro-regional municipal planning; special subprojects for indigenous peoples; programs
specifically targeted at women; training seminars and workshops with NGOs and local contractors; and
seminars for the transfer of FISE's know-how to government agency staff. This component would also
support the Preventive Maintenance Fund (PMF) to help provide the cost of maintenance of primary
schools and health posts in an increasing number of municipalities.

Component 3. LSMS, Monitoring and Evaluation. (US$2.0 million; IDA US$2.0 million). This
component would finance: (a) analysis of the 1998 Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS);
updating of FISE's poverty map, and analysis of the 1998 FISE Impact Evaluation; (b) review of FISE's
project appraisal, monitoring and evaluation systems, including its environmental systems, and (c) LSMS
and FISE impact evaluation data collection in 2001, and focused studies under MECOVI (a regional
program to generate accurate survey information regarding living conditions and poverty in Latin America
sponsored by the Bank, IDB, and the Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean-ECLAC).

Component 4. Project Management. (US$21.9 million; IDA US$2.6 million). This component would
finance: FISE operating costs (not financed by IDA); office expansion and rehabilitation; staff training
activities; improvement of the MIS system; vehicles; equipment; consultancies; and external auditing (both
financial and concurrent).

3.4 Revised Components:
To address the need for emergency reconstruction and disaster prevention following Hurricane Mitch, the
Government requested a minor adjustment in the project composition with the addition of a disbursement
sub-category for disaster mitigation subprojects (approximately SDR 3.3 million). This was formalized in



                                                      - 3 -

an Amendment to the Credit Agreement dated July 16, 1999. However, relatively little of this category was
actually used since the Credit was not yet effective when Hurricane Mitch hit and the IDB was able to
provide substantial funding immediately on somewhat easier terms. A bit later, IDA approved a separate
project dealing with emergency preparedness in March 2001 (Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction
Project; Cr. 3487-NI) which built on the experience of and cooperated with FISE. Most of the resources
allocated for emergency works were subsequently re-allocated to the original disbursement categories.
Thus, the basic project composition changed little.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is considered highly satisfactory because of its focus on the Government's
poverty alleviation strategy (particularly expanding access to basic social services following a highly
progressive resource allocation), its impulse to move the institution from an infrastructure approach to a
more comprehensive local development approach, and the reflection of policy priorities and operational
experience in the project design. In addition, the inclusion of important data collection (LSMS) and
poverty/evaluation studies which had significant impacts beyond the Social Investment Fund were an
enlightened approach allowing FISE to be measured by more than mere outputs, to report credibly on its
achievements, and to allocate resources ex ante based on objective, high-quality data using the resulting
Poverty Map. The quality of project preparation substantially contributed to start FISE's reorientation from
a reconstruction mechanism to a major player in local development.

The project was consistent with the Government's poverty reduction strategy and sector policies as well as
with IDA's CAS. The design of FISE III took into account several lessons learned, not only from FISE I
and II Projects, but also from other social funds, including issues related to:

        · Quality: An effort was made not to overemphasize efficiency at the expense of subproject
        effectiveness and sustainability. Subprojects became more integral (schools with small playgrounds
        and pathways, retaining walls, etc.)
        · Sustainability: The need to include explicit training measures and financial resources to ensure
        appropriate operation and maintenance of infrastructure at the community and municipal levels
        was correctly identified, and resulted in the creation of the successful Preventive Maintenance Fund
        (PMF) in 1998 (see Annex 9), the first of its kind in Latin America.
        · Institutional strengthening: The project appropriately emphasized the need to have strong
        cooperation and communication between FISE, line ministries, and other government agencies--an
        issue that had proven to be a significant problem during FISE II. The incorporation of a "capacity
        building of municipalities/communities" component into the project was of strategic relevance.
        · Implementation performance: At appraisal, the usefulness of FISE's key performance indicators
        as tools used to monitor implementation performance was recognized; similarly, impact and
        beneficiary assessments were integrated.
        · Subproject cycle: The need to systematically revise the subproject cycle, which is crucial for the
        efficient and effective implementation of the project, was also incorporated into the project design.

The Bank arranged for a PHRD grant to support the design of the project, particularly focusing on
innovative areas and efficient and effective procedures for FISE. It provided the basis for the significant
decision by FISE management to strengthen the role of municipal governments in subproject management
and foster community involvement, thus promoting important aspects of local development and
decentralization. This strategic decision was taken by FISE at a time when local development and
decentralization were not explicit priorities of central government, and a well-defined decentralization
strategy did not exist. The experience and lessons from the pilot phase launched under the project informed
elements of Government's decentralization efforts during subsequent years (e.g. participatory municipal



                                                      - 4 -

planning processes and strengthening project management of municipalities).

Furthermore, the PHRD helped design measures to better address the needs of indigenous communities and
increase the participation of women in decision making, subproject implementation and maintenance. The
project design was based on comprehensive social, indigenous, and gender assessments. The Social
Assessment included a desk review of regional assessments and a Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA)
that included meetings with mayors, local NGOs, indigenous and women's groups. The PRA targeted the
Northern and Southern Atlantic Coast Regions (RAAN--North Atlantic Autonomous Region and
RAAS--South Atlantic Autonomous Region), where 58 percent of the population is indigenous and
Afro-Caribbean. A key finding was the low capacity of municipal governments and, in some cases, the
absence of municipal governments. In compliance with OD 4.20, an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
(IPDP) was designed to include a Participatory Micro-Planning strategy for the Atlantic Coast Region with
an Indigenous and Gender Focus. Based on these findings, a pilot was designed that would first be carried
out in a few municipalities, and would use specialized NGOs, legitimate community representation, and an
open menu of subprojects (e.g., construction of walking bridges and piers, navigation canals,
production/commercialization projects for men and women). For this purpose, FISE's fiduciary instruments
would be simplified, and tailored to a new modality of decentralized administration and community-based
subproject management. This new modality would expand FISE's ability to satisfy the identified demands
of isolated population groups, and would serve as a testing ground for the decentralization processes. A
gender specialist also conducted a Gender Assessment. An institutional strategy for the promotion of
women inside FISE's organization, and the inclusion of gender considerations in FISE's Operational
Manuals (including the project cycle) were drafted by FISE, and included in the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP).

Regarding the Environmental Assessment, it was determined that this project would have no significant
environmental risks, and that no resettlement would occur as a result of the project investments. Since FISE
III was a follow-up project, it had already incorporated several important initiatives related to
environmental issues, such as creating and staffing an environmental unit and developing procedures to
integrate environmental selection criteria. Nevertheless, this project would conduct further training and
sensitization programs, and develop new environmental menu items that would be eligible for FISE
financing.

The project provided for a substantial LSMS, Monitoring and Evaluation component, designed by FISE
management with considerable support and expertise from the Bank. This component met critical needs for
the Government and FISE to obtain social and poverty data as the basis for the design and implementation
of the country's Poverty Map, the drafting of the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy, and the design of
poverty alleviation programs (e.g. a Conditional Cash Transfer Program). It also provided for a
comprehensive and well-designed impact evaluation of FISE activities (see Section 4.1), recognized as
exemplary for a Social Fund and beyond.

Project appraisal also appropriately identified the risks that FISE III could face during the course of the
project with incorporation of appropriate risk mitigation measures in the project design to the extent
possible, including: weak line ministries (attention to decentralization and inter-institutional coordination);
reduced counterpart funding (funding from other donors and importance given to the social sectors);
demand for investments in excess of FISE's capacity, which would therefore affect the quality of FISE's
output (increased participation of NGOs in the project cycle with gradual decentralization of
responsibilities to municipalities/communities); sustainability of investments (beneficiary participation and
training in operation and maintenance, and expansion of the PMF); weak municipal capacity (incorporation



                                                      - 5 -

of capacity building activities); and political pressures at the central and local government level (joint
monitoring and supervision by donors, staff continuity in FISE and adherence to Operational Manual and
targeting mechanism).


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's overall performance is considered satisfactory. FISE is one of the world's most
experienced social investment funds, and this is reflected in the quantity and quality of project
outcomes. FISE III met its objectives of supporting the Government in its poverty alleviation efforts by
providing small-scale infrastructure subprojects, while focusing on the poorest communities and
selected vulnerable groups, piloting municipal management of the subproject cycle, and strengthening
community participation. However, the project's performance in certain components was stronger than
in others.

Provide essential small-scale infrastructure. FISE III continued to contribute substantially to
increasing poor communities' access to priority social infrastructure. As described in detail in Section
4.2 and Annex 8, FISE played a major role in improving access in both the education and health
sectors, managing between 25 and 30 percent of capital expenditures in those sectors. Aside from
managing the planning, construction, and maintenance of health and education infrastructure, FISE was
instrumental in clarifying the technical standards for schools, health facilities, and community centers.
To achieve economies of scale in contracting out infrastructure, FISE had to be very precise in
specifying the technical requirements of each subproject. As a result, the Ministries of Health and
Education designed prototypes that could be done at a reasonable cost under exacting quality standards.
Before FISE existed, both ministries lacked a well-defined design for their basic infrastructure or strict
guidelines for quality standards. Indeed, neither of the two ministries had the necessary expertise for
the massive infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion that has been provided by FISE at a high
technical quality. Without the specialized contributions of FISE in targeting, participatory planning,
contracting of the construction, and maintenance of basic health and education infrastructure, social
service coverage would undoubtedly be less than it is now.

The FISE III Project also strengthened and improved the rather new Preventive Maintenance Fund
(PMF) to ensure the routine maintenance of completed education and health infrastructure by
communities with support from municipal governments. Although line agencies did not contribute to the
fund, as originally foreseen, the PMF proved to be an effective way of introducing local leaders to the
importance of regular maintenance of infrastructure, thus contributing to its sustainability (see Annex
9).

FISE III financed relatively little in the water supply and sanitation sector, mainly due to a deliberate
decision by FISE to first work out an agreed policy with the National Water Institute (INAA) and the
Nicaraguan Water and Sanitation Enterprise (ENACAL) (see Section 4.2), and to a lack of focus and
capacity in the institution. This was somewhat disappointing because of the importance of water supply
and sanitation for poverty reduction, and also because provision of small-scale water supply systems in
rural areas was one of the pilot initiatives for the project (prior to project approval, a Water Law was
passed which limited INAA to regulatory activities and established ENACAL as a semi-privatized
executive body for mainly urban water supply, leaving FISE as the major source of supply in rural
areas). This effort could have benefited from an association with NGOs experienced in this sector, as
proposed by Bank staff (and as done by FISE recently in a subsequent project).



                                                       - 6 -

Focus on the poorest communities. One of the most notable achievements of the FISE III Project was
its contribution to the objective of helping the Government focus on the poorer communities by
establishing a comprehensive, detailed, and reliable database on poverty statistics, and information on
the social sectors. This data has proved to be immensely useful for Nicaragua; it was the basis for the
establishment of a new Poverty Map, a Poverty Reduction Strategy Program (PRSP), agreement on the
CAS, and the measurement of the Millennium Development Goal achievements. It also allowed the
country to become part of several important initiatives and programs, such as the Heavily Indebted
Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative and Education for All (see Section 4.2, Component 3).

As confirmed by the Impact Evaluation carried out in 1998-99 (see Annex 3), the FISE II Project had
been successful in reaching the poor at all levels: municipal, community, and household. Extremely
poor municipalities received more resources per capita from FISE than better-off municipalities. The
detailed and agreed poverty map allowed FISE management to allocate FISE III resources in
accordance with levels of poverty of the municipalities, and helped to resist pressure from local
representatives to favor well-connected municipalities. Although the relatively better-off municipalities,
particularly some cities, received more than their share agreed at appraisal, per capita resource
allocation was still highly progressive (see Section 4.2) . In addition, FISE was instrumental in gaining
wider public sector acceptance of a stronger poverty focus during the project implementation period,
which was quite an achievement.

Strengthen municipal management and community participation. The FISE III Project also played
an innovative and essential role in establishing and strengthening the concepts of community
participation and decentralization to the municipal level, and in promoting these concepts at the national
level. Based on extensive studies and pilots, FISE in collaboration with the Nicaraguan Institute for
Municipal Development (INIFOM), developed and supported the implementation of the Participatory
Municipal Planning Process. This critically important activity (facilitated by NGOs trained by FISE
staff) helped the communities prioritize their investments as an input into agreed Municipal Investment
Plans. Furthermore, in order to prepare for the decentralization of the subproject management to local
governments, FISE commissioned an important study (carried out by a Nicaraguan university) to assess
the administrative and financial capacity of the country's 152 municipalities. Based on this assessment,
the initial nine municipalities to manage the entire subproject cycle (including financial transfers) were
selected and received technical assistance to do so. This activity, however, was not well coordinated
with INIFOM which later led to some duplication of support in a few municipalities with regard to
establishing a computerized system to manage the subproject cycle.

Overall, the project played a significant role in facilitating the cooperation between the central
government and poor municipalities and communities, thus strengthening local development,
governance and democracy. FISE's work with the communities also contributed substantially to
increasing their social capital as documented in the "beneficiary assessments" that FISE carried out
annually. FISE's implementation of innovative measures including its support to the Participatory
Municipal Planning Process, the PMF, the strengthening of municipal infrastructure management, and
community training were of such importance that FISE was visited by representatives of the social
investment funds of Guatemala, Honduras, the Dominican Republic, and Mongolia. Based on an
evaluation (carried out with IDB funds) of the pilot on decentralized subproject management, the
incoming FISE administration decided to expand and deepen this effort in its 2002-2004 program (with
support from subsequent IDA, IDB and KfW projects), increasing the number of municipalities which
manage FISE investment resources to 50 municipalities in 2004.




                                                       - 7 -

FISE coordination with other public sector entities. FISE management provided substantial attention
to coordinating with the responsible line agencies, but the working relationships were somewhat
inconsistent since they depended largely on the capacity of the line agencies (see Section 5.2).
Cooperation with the increasingly responsive Ministry of Education was good, but less than
satisfactory with the Ministry of Health and the water supply agencies (INAA and ENACAL). The
KfW-funded study on the PMF's performance pointed to the weak collaboration as it was noted that
there was a lack of awareness of the existence and benefits of the PMF at the central levels of the
Ministries. However, local health and education representatives were quite actively involved in the
PMF's implementation. It should be noted that, recently, both FISE and the line agencies are making
new and seemingly more successful efforts to ensure that they are working within the same policy and
operational framework.

The pilot initiative on "strengthening municipal management and community participation" was
designed to be closely coordinated with INIFOM, the agency responsible for municipal capacity
building. A formal agreement was reached between INIFOM and FISE on how to work together.
During implementation, however, coordination of the two was only partially successful: While the
participatory municipal planning methodology was mutually agreed and support to local governments
was divided geographically, there was little coordination in designing and implementing the
decentralized project management cycle despite donor's persistence to ensure collaboration. These
shortcomings are mostly attributable to a lack of political will and competition between the two
organizations, and weak implementation capacity of INIFOM as well as overconfidence on FISE's side
when initiating the process.

Emergency response after Hurricane Mitch. FISE provided immediate and significant contributions
(mainly funded by the IDB) in response to the emergency situation caused by Hurricane Mitch in 1998.
When Mitch hit, FISE quickly sent task teams to the affected areas, which were allowed to make most
decisions on the spot, without time-consuming reference to the central office. The result of this effort
was an impressive program of repair and provision of critical access to facilities. It should be noted that
after the emergency period (3 months), FISE quickly returned to its normal operating procedures, thus
avoiding problems that some of the other Social Funds in Central America encountered after
transforming procedures to support an emergency situation. This experience helped later to strengthen
the case for decentralizing subproject management to local governments. Furthermore, FISE's
successful crisis response informed the creation of a national emergency response system, supported
under the IDA's Disaster Management Project.

In summary, the main project objectives were achieved. FISE could have accomplished even more,
however, if project execution had not been affected by the coordination issues with other public sector
entities mentioned above and by project management weaknesses around the 2002 election period (see
Sections 4.2 and 5.3). The latter had a slowing impact on FISE's efficiency and output: FISE's
disbursements in 2002 were only about half of what they had been historically and only picked up in
2003.This situation was not resolved until late 2002 when the new FISE administration was fully
functional.

Achievement of Social Objectives

Poverty Targeting and Equity. FISE III was a Program of Targeted Intervention, and achievement of
the poverty alleviation objective was substantial. FISE's resource allocation formula called for a highly
progressive per capita allocation, strongly favoring the population in municipalities of extreme and high
poverty levels. As shown in Table 1, the actual per capita beneficiary allocations were equivalent to


                                                     - 8 -

US$55 for municipalities of extreme poverty, US$30 for municipalities with high levels of poverty, and
US$21 for the less-poor municipalities. While these actual allocations fell short from the negotiated per
capita allocations (see Annex 1), due to some significant investments in the 23 less-poor municipalities
during the 1999-01 period as explained below, the allocations are still a convincing indicator for FISE's
targeting effort and are unmatched by other public sector institutions.

This fact is also confirmed when considering the allocation by level of poverty of municipalities. FISE
increased its allocations to both the poorest and the less-poor municipalities at the expense of
allocations to mid-level poverty municipalities. Extremely poor municipalities received more (40
percent of total funds) than agreed at appraisal (36 percent), but high poverty municipalities received
only 41 percent as compared to 57 percent agreed at appraisal. Finally, municipalities of medium (less
poor) poverty were given 19 percent of total funds compared to 7 percent originally planned (see Table
1). The larger allocation than expected to the less-poor municipalities was largely the result of three
factors: (a) emergency investments after Mitch in less-poor municipalities which were affected by the
hurricane; (b) a problem with the poverty map in the Atlantic Coast Region (see below); and (c)
financing of some larger health facilities with Government funds that were not included in the
Municipal Development Plans, without considering the equity guidelines of the Poverty Map.

         Table 1: Targeting and number of beneficiaries by poverty level (all donors)

  Poverty level       Number of          Ex-ante allocation for Actual number Actual cost of     Number of
                    municipalities         subprojects (in US$  of subprojects subprojects (in   beneficiaries
                                           millions, estimated)                  US$ millions)

 Extreme                  70                      49.25                   1,272            50.14      915,532
 High                     45                      77.35                   1,146            51.51    1,720,268
 Medium                   37                      9.60                      470            23.47    1,108,266
 TOTAL                    152                    136.20                   2,888          125.12     3,744,066
        Notes: (a) Source: FISE MIS as of June 30, 2003, (b) Table does not include subprojects funded
        by the Preventive Maintenance Fund, nor by special funds for Hurricane Mitch repair, (c)
        Amounts in fifth column are costs of contracts for subproject formulation, execution, and
        supervision, and not actual disbursements, (d) Actual cost figures exclude beneficiary
        contributions in labor, materials, and land.

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan. FISE III formalized the focus on special needs of indigenous
groups; achievement of the objectives of the IPDP was modest. As planned, the pilot Participatory
Micro-Planning with Indigenous and Gender Focus program for the Atlantic Coast Region was carried
out in two municipalities with indigenous populations, Siuna (RAAN) and Cua Bocay (Jinotega).
Implementation was supported by two local NGOs, Centro Humboldt and FADCANIC, but suffered
from the fact that the earlier poverty map, used until 2002, mistakenly indicated that most
municipalities in the coast region were in the medium and high poverty ranges, instead of extreme
poverty (this was corrected in the new poverty map introduced in 2002). As a result, resources
allocated to the Atlantic Coast municipalities were limited, and by the time the planning process was
finished, all resources for executing subprojects were already committed. Thus, the identified
subprojects were postponed for implementation under the follow-up Poverty Reduction and Local
Development Project (Credit 3504-NI, March 2001).

A social and environmental assessment of natural resources in the Atlantic Coast Region and Jinotega,
carried out in 1999 with Swiss funding, was commissioned by the Bank to assess the feasibility of
implementing small-scale subprojects with local technology. The study provided useful information on



                                                          - 9 -

subproject design using appropriate technology in the region. However, under FISE III no such projects
were implemented due to the fact that funds were already committed when the study was completed.
However, the recommendations of the study were later used by FISE (under the subsequent IDA and
IDB projects) to start implementing appropriate technology subprojects in the region.

Gender. FISE III introduced the concept of gender in FISE's policies and operations; achievement of
the gender objective was modest. A gender policy was generated by FISE with the help of consultants.
Its implementation required substantial conceptual changes in the institutional gender composition,
business operations and assistance to the public, and training of promoters and NGOs, which took time.
However, since October 2002, FISE's new management has actively pursued this topic. For example,
the gender focus in Municipal Investment Plans was evaluated to provide for adjustments in the
Participatory Municipal Planning methodology. In addition, in March 2003, a Gender Unit was created
as a functional structure within FISE. Furthermore, several consultancies are being developed to
incorporate a gender focus in the entire project cycle, in the definition of training and sensitizing
modules, and in the design of a system of indicators to monitor the integration of gender in all of FISE's
activities. FISE has also made several gender related modifications to its CDD (Community Driven
Development) Manual. Still, as shown in Annex 1, over the project implementation period, the
percentage of female members of community subproject committees was less than half of the
percentage projected.

Environmental Objectives. Achievement of the environment objectives was substantial. FISE's use of
its environmental assessment unit gradually improved, and these activities have now been fully
integrated.

Private Sector Development Objectives. Achievement of the private sector objectives was substantial.
The project continued to help strengthen the local contracting and consulting industries through the
provision of work following strict technical design and procurement criteria.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I. Subprojects. Satisfactory
FISE continued to produce a substantial number of good quality works in poor communities and, in
addition, the agency showed a gradual, but substantial improvement in its municipal and community
participation policies and practices. FISE also demonstrated measured progress in its policies and practices
dealing with the indigenous communities.

Output by Sector
FISE contracted a total of 2,888 education, health, water supply and sewerage, and social subprojects at a
cost of US$ 125.1 million (during March 1, 1998 to June 30, 2003, all donors) (see Table 2). This
represented about 77 percent of the total number and 92 percent of the total costs estimated at appraisal. It
should be noted that the project was "demand driven," thus responding to investment requests from
communities and municipalities, prioritized through a participatory planning process. Although sector
resource allocations depended on community demand, it is interesting to note that they diverged quite
significantly from the estimates made at appraisal. As estimated at appraisal, most resources were assigned
to the education sector. However, the actual number of subprojects in this sector and their cost exceeded
the estimated figures considerably. Community and municipal service resource allocation was in
conformity with the projected amount, but other sectors received much less than predicted. In health, there
was a deliberate decision by FISE, in agreement with the Bank, to reduce commitments because of the
Ministry of Health's increasing difficulties in covering operational costs for health facilities. In water and
sanitation, there was also a deliberate decision by FISE to work out an agreed policy with INAA and



                                                     - 10 -

ENACAL before continuing with investments, but, in this case, the importance of the sector, particularly
the pilot for small-scale rural water supply and sanitation, should have warranted more aggressive action
by FISE, for example through partnerships with NGOs experienced in this sector (which FISE is now
doing in a subsequent project) in order to be able to respond to requests from communities for small-scale
water and sanitation projects. Similarly, for the environmental protection subprojects, action was stalled
because of disagreement among FISE's managers on the sustainability of these activities. But in any case,
the projected sector allocations were only rough appraisal estimates, and for the most part, the selected
subprojects reflected community priorities.

                     Table 2: Number and cost of sub-projects by sector (all donors)
          Sector            Number (estimated at            Cost (in US$      Actual number Actual cost (in
                                  appraisal)                  millions,       of subprojects   US$ millions)
                                                             estimated at
                                                             appraisal)
Education                            1,260                       40.86             1,880            66.28
Health                               1,307                       23.15              365             20.20
Water and sanitation                  327                        25.88              145             13.95
Social assistance                     379                        20.43              128              7.13
Community and
municipal services                    363                        14.98              364             17.01
Environmental
improvement                           134                        10.90               6               0.55
TOTAL                                3,770                      136.20             2,888           125.12
                                         Note: See notes under Table 1.

As shown in Table 3, between March 1, 1998 and June 30, 2003, FISE benefited approximately 3.7 million
people. The largest number of beneficiaries was in the health sector (40 percent), followed by community
and municipal services (31 percent), education (22 percent), water and sewerage (6 percent), social
assistance (0.9 percent), and environmental improvement (0.2 percent). Although most of the subprojects
were carried out in the education sector, there were more beneficiaries in the health sector, because health
posts serve a greater number of people.

                                     Table 3: Number of beneficiaries by sector
                                     Sector                Number of beneficiaries
                           Education                                832,847
                           Health                                   1,505,599
                           Water and sanitation                     211,918
                           Social assistance                         33,181
                           Municipal and                            1,153,006
                           community services
                           Environmental                              7,515
                           improvement
                           TOTAL                                    3,744,066
                                                Source: FISE MIS.

It also should be noted that FISE, like most, if not all, Social Funds, does not have a satisfactory definition
of "beneficiaries," and therefore, as a result, it is really only useful to compare number of beneficiaries



                                                        - 11 -

within the same sector, but not between sectors.

Relative Quality and Cost
The quality of the completed works was generally satisfactory, as confirmed by various studies, including
the Impact Evaluation and subsequent annual quality assessments. The cost of the works carried out by
FISE, compared to the cost of works carried out by other agencies, was relatively high. However, two
cost-efficiency studies, carried out by both local and international consultants during project
implementation (see Annexes 3 and 8), found it difficult to find useful comparisons, and concluded that
FISE's works were seemingly more expensive, but also more comprehensive and of better quality. FISE
thus provided better assurances of subproject sustainability.

As shown in Table 2, the average subproject cost was the equivalent of US$43,000, or 19 percent above
the US$36,000 cost projected at appraisal. This was mainly due to the outcomes and recommendations of
FISE's Impact Evaluation, which caused FISE to implement more comprehensive subprojects including
complementary subproject measures such as footpaths, swings, retention walls, and drink water tabs for
schools, and electricity for health facilities. All sectors showed higher than projected average costs, but
health subprojects were exceptionally more expensive, and turned out to be more than 200 percent above
expectation (US$55,000 instead of US$18,000). This increase can be ascribed to a government decision to
have FISE manage the reconstruction of a number of small hospitals, which were beyond the normal scope
of FISE activities (fully funded by Government).

Component 2. Capacity building of municipalities/communities. Satisfactory. FISE III contributed
greatly towards the capacity building of municipalities and communities through the implementation of the
pilot Municipal and Community Strengthening Program, which provided for: (a) Participatory
Micro-Planning; (b) the Preventive Maintenance Fund (PMF); (c) training for community participation;
and (d) decentralization of subproject administration and management. Overall, as a result of FISE's
contribution in this area, there have been significant changes in the way social investment is decided upon
and carried out; new attitudes have been created towards maintenance of public buildings; local capacity
and transparency have been increased; and inter-institutional dialogue has been strengthened.

Participatory Municipal Planning. This new instrument, used for FISE III subproject identification and
prioritization, targeting, negotiation, and articulation of municipal investments, culminated in Municipal
Investment Plans, of which FISE funded a large portion. To develop the Municipal Investment Plan, 1,629
community workshops (totaling 64,161 people, of whom 40 percent women) were carried out for 2,946
community subproject committees (totaling 15,017 members, of whom 37 percent women). NGOs, trained
by FISE staff, provided the necessary community training. As of December 2002, 144 out of 152
municipalities completed Municipal Investment Plans, and 7,548 subprojects were identified (total of about
US$350 million).

Preventive Maintenance Fund. The PMF is an institutional and financial mechanism that was created by
FISE in April 1997 to provide incentives to local governments, communities, and sector agencies for the
co-financing of routine maintenance of completed education and health facilities. A pilot phase that
included nine municipalities began in early-1997; this was expanded to 45 municipalities by October of the
same year and to 58 in 1998. Under FISE III (counterpart funding) , this increased to 110 municipalities in
1999, 107 in 2000, and 111 in 2001 (although it declined to 89 in 2002 because of a shortage of
government funding). The PMF has achieved the active participation of 2,161 school councils and 434
health post subproject committees. For each US$1 invested by the PMF, local governments and
communities financed US$0.28. During the implementation period of FISE III, the PMF covered 36
percent of all primary school and health post infrastructure (a multitude of the number foreseen at


                                                       - 12 -

appraisal; see Annex 1), and is now in the process of extending funding to all primary schools. This effort
was recently evaluated by a team of KfW-funded consultants, and was found to be generally useful,
although it also requires some strengthening. It was suggested that the operation of the PMF should, where
possible, work directly with communities instead of centralizing the administration of funds at the
municipal level, in order to empower communities to manage the maintenance of their subprojects rather
than having to rely on local governments (see Annex 9).

Community training. The training (handled by NGOs) included the facilitation of social communication
and the strengthening of beneficiary participation by preparing communities to take over responsibilities in
the management of the subproject cycle, including subproject identification, prioritization, operation and
maintenance. During FISE III, 1,450 subproject committees were trained, for a total of 5,664 participants
(16 percent women). This compares to 1,500 committees for 7,500 participants projected at appraisal. The
lower than projected numbers were partly the result of some overemphasis of capacity building at the
municipal level over community training by FISE when starting the pilot effort, and partly due to the freeze
in training in 2002 following the change in administration.

Decentralization of the subproject cycle. This new concept would lead to municipalities being in charge of
all activities within the subproject cycle, including the administration of financial resources. As part of the
project, a pilot program covering nine municipalities was carried out, in which the municipalities invested
US$9.5 million in the first year, representing 7.5 percent of the total FISE operations of that year. The
results of the pilot program show that, with the decentralization of the subproject cycle, there is a better
response to subproject demand, the subprojects are completed in half the time it takes at the central level,
subprojects are 14 percent less expensive, and the process has a significant impact on local economies in
the construction, professional services, financial services, and trade sectors. In 2002, 22 co-financing
agreements (including the nine pilot municipalities) were signed for the expansion of the decentralization of
the subproject cycle, another 25 followed in 2003. A continuous concern, however, is the sustainability of
the operating costs of the Municipal Technical Units that now manage the subproject cycle. So far, FISE
provides funding, on a declining scale, to local governments to hire local consultants to support the
decentralization process, and help set up the system. The pilot in nine municipalities showed that not all
local governments were able to absorb the cost after three years of support, as envisioned at the start of the
pilot. However, the central government's growing commitment to strengthen local governments, reflected in
a substantial increase in fiscal transfers to local governments in 2003 and the efforts around creating a civil
service law at the same time, could contribute to improving prospects for sustainability of any effort
supporting local governments.

Component 3. LSMS, Monitoring and Evaluation. Highly Satisfactory. This component provided major
returns. The LSMS, managed by FISE, but carried out by INEC (with some support from MECOVI and
the Bank) in 1998/99, led to a new poverty map, which was used by FISE as of January 2002. The LSMS
and poverty map outcome were discussed extensively with both public and private stakeholders, and
provided the Government with detailed and up-to-date information on the location and status of the poor.
The study was followed by another LSMS in 2001, which further contributed to the Government's
database. Both surveys helped the country in drafting a Poverty Reduction Strategy Program (PRSP)
acceptable to the donors, and in meeting the criteria for debt relief in the context of the HIPC. The data
were also essential to both Government and Bank during the discussions on the new CAS, and for reporting
on the Millennium Development Goals, and the LSMS has now become an established instrument in
Government. These products are of such high quality that the Government and the Bank are frequently
asked by other governments for advice on this complex subject.

The LSMS was closely linked to the FISE impact evaluation study, managed by FISE with strong


                                                      - 13 -

support from the Bank, carried out under this component. The comprehensive study provided FISE with a
substantial analysis of its policies and operations, sector by sector, on what worked and what did not.
Following extensive discussions between FISE, line agencies, beneficiaries, NGOs, and donors, FISE, with
the help of local and foreign consultants, adopted most of the corrective changes coming out of the study
and follow-up discussions (see Annex 3).

The component also contributed to funding the substantial technical assistance activities carried out in the
context of Nicaragua's participation in the MECOVI program, a regional initiative to generate accurate
information regarding living conditions and poverty in Latin America, sponsored by the IDB, ECLAC, and
Bank.

Component 4. Project Management. Satisfactory. This component financed substantial office
rehabilitation, equipment, vehicles, and staff training, and financial and operational audits. Various
consultant studies led to improved operational manuals for subproject appraisal, contracting, and
supervision. This component also financed a pilot effort to establish a regional office in Matagalpa (as part
of FISE's decentralization efforts), which was to be responsible for most project cycle activities in that
northern department. An evaluation of the performance of this regional office showed that it helped
establish closer contacts with the local stakeholders, reduced subproject costs, and fostered local economic
development. Yet, the pilot was canceled in early 2003 because it had increased FISE's overhead costs.

During 2001, an institutional diagnostic study helped identify some management weaknesses in FISE,
including insufficient internal communication and coordination, as well as a lack of decisiveness at the top.
The main cause of these issues was internal friction between FISE senior managers, which had an impact
on FISE policies and operations, nearly paralyzing the subproject cycle (see Section 5.3), and finally
causing the need for a six-month closing date extension of the Credit to complete its final works, goods, and
service contracts. The new administration, however, addressed these issues by making changes in personnel
as well in the institutional structure so that the identified weaknesses were overcome in 2003.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As mentioned in the PAD, because the project was fully driven by community demand, no cost-benefit
analysis was carried out at appraisal. During project implementation, however, a great number of relevant
evaluations and studies were carried out as described in Annex 3. Most prominently, the FISE impact
evaluation study was carried out in 1998-99 as part of a larger effort of client countries and the Bank to
assess the impacts of Social Investment Funds worldwide ("Evaluating Social Funds"). In the case of
Nicaragua, it provided substantial data, giving the basic justification of FISE's approach. Subsequent
studies provided additional information on FISE's comparative costs and the quality of works funded by
the institution. On the basis of this information and follow-up discussions with stakeholders, FISE
improved its technical criteria and design standards, as well as its production processes.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was substantial in the following areas:

Impact on Central Government. FISE III had positive impacts on the Central Government during project
implementation, mainly due to the positive outcomes documented through the impact evaluation studies, the
outputs of the LSMS, and the capacity shown by FISE to respond quickly and substantially to emergency
needs in a disaster situation. The LSMS led to the establishment of an agreed poverty measurement



                                                       - 14 -

mechanism and the basis for a social protection policy, strengthening the Nicaraguan Statistical Institute
(INEC), and providing useful information as well as an exemplary evaluation methodology for the
Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (SETEC) and the planning unit of the Ministry of Finance. FISE's
response to the Hurricane Mitch disaster helped initiate a coordinated emergency response, which
subsequently was taken over by the new emergency response team in the Vice-Presidency, assisted by the
IDA-supported Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project. The project was also quite successful in
strengthening its sector cooperation with the line agency in education, but less so in health and water
supply. Perhaps most importantly, however, the `municipal and community strengthening' pilot informed
central government in its effort to develop a broader decentralization strategy. FISE's experience in this
pilot was key in promoting a collaborative effort (in coordination with INIFOM) to encourage local
management of resources and processes, participation and accountability as important elements in the
country's democratization process.

Impact on Municipal Governments. The project significantly contributed to municipal government
strengthening. FISE III introduced the concept of micro-planning at the community level, leading to
Municipal Investment Plans, and it assessed the municipal capacity to manage subprojects. The respective
pilot provided nine municipalities with the tools and capacity to manage the full subproject cycle. The
municipal planning tool was established in collaboration with INIFOM, the association of mayors
(AMUNIC), and relevant donor agencies (DANIDA, GTZ, etc.). Ideally, INIFOM and FISE would also
have jointly strengthened local government capacity ­ each in their area of expertise (INIFOM in municipal
administration, finance, cadastre, etc., FISE in investment management,). Through their weak collaboration
(see Section 4.1), both institutions lost an opportunity to advance the agenda for a more comprehensive
approach to local development. Overall, the activities financed under the FISE III Project helped establish
a new type of relationship between central government, local governments and communities, thus
contributing to stronger governance and democracy.

Impact on Communities. The project helped to strengthen communities by establishing a participatory
planning process that starts at the community level, by promoting well-organized subproject user
committees and training those committees. The project, initially, was not as successful in following up on
agreed criteria for community contributions in cash or in kind (labor, land, materials, etc.). However, this
was corrected in March 2003, when the MIS was modified to be able to register and quantify local
counterpart contributions.

Impact on NGOs and Community-Based Organizations. The project was less successful in promoting
NGO involvement and capacity building. FISE did identify and train a substantial number of NGOs to help
manage the micro-planning activities throughout the country, but it could have done more to collaborate
with and promote the involvement of NGOs or other community-based organizations in other policy and
operational activities, where those organizations may have a comparative advantage, such as in managing
water supply and sanitation subprojects and other community related activities.

Impact on FISE. Analytically as well as operationally, FISE has been (and continuous to be) one of the
stronger public institutions in Nicaragua. The project helped strengthen FISE's institutional development
considerably by providing a combination of space for innovation (pilots) and research (evaluations, LSMS,
other studies (e.g. municipal capacity)). Cross-cutting topics including community participation, gender,
environment, indigenous and the inclusion of other special target groups were promoted and established
during the FISE III period. FISE staff had access to an ample set of training which, among other factors,
led to an important shift from an infrastructure to a local development focus throughout the institution.
Less successful were the efforts to develop capacity to adequately respond to the challenges with water
supply and sanitation subprojects. This effort was only marginally successful due to the reasons mentioned


                                                     - 15 -

above in Section 4.1. Finally, FISE's internal communication and coordination problems (see Section 4.2)
caused a temporarily set back in the institutional development which was then overcome by the new
administration.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Natural Disaster. Hurricane Mitch caused major damage and required temporary amendments to the
poverty map-based investment allocations and FISE's procurement regulations.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Shortage of Government Counterpart Funding. Government counterpart was estimated at a total of
US$21.0 million for administrative costs and the PMF over the four-year period 1999-2002; it only
provided US$16.6 million due to the country's ongoing fiscal crisis. Additional donor funding, however,
made up the difference. As a result, this limitation in counterpart resources did not cause major delays in
project implementation. The limited counterpart funds did, however, reduce the amount available for the
PMF. To accommodate this reduction, FISE decided to provide maintenance funds only to communities
with subprojects financed by FISE, while earlier, FISE had opened up the fund to all health and education
facilities, independent of their source of investment funding.

Initial Lack of National Decentralization Policy. At the end of the 90s, Government did not have a
well-defined national decentralization and local development strategy. INIFOM, responsible for developing
part of such strategy, was carrying out a variety of donor-supported local government strengthening
initiatives, but was unable to develop a coherent approach. At the beginning of the FISE III Project, FISE
started to design and implement its pilot municipal planning and municipal subproject management efforts
in a virtual vacuum and spent a lot of time and effort to develop this critically important area. Under the
new administration, however, the decentralization topic gained momentum and a decentralization policy
was developed, informed by both INIFOM and FISE experience, among others, although much remains to
be done to define responsibilities of the relevant actions.

Inconsistent Coordination with Line Agencies. Despite major efforts during project preparation to help
ensure proper coordination and cooperation between FISE and the responsible line agencies in education,
health, and water supply/sanitation, this only succeeded fully in education. The working relationship
depended largely on the capacity of the line agencies. Coordination with the Ministry of Health continued to
be difficult, and initially resulted in various health centers without staff and/or medical supplies, which led
FISE to practically freeze further investments in such facilities. Also, the coordination of FISE with
INAA/ENACAL continued to be problematic; INAA was not able to provide the necessary policy
framework for FISE's water supply and sanitation plans, and ENACAL could not agree upon an acceptable
division of labor with FISE. Still, it was finally decided in 2001 that FISE would be responsible for water
supply schemes in remote rural areas, and more recently (2003), that FISE is responsible for most of the
rural water/sanitation portfolio in Nicaragua.

Change in FISE Leadership. After FISE's long term (10 years) Executive President resigned in
September 2001, a substitute was appointed and, over the next seven months, FISE went through two
further changes of its Executive President. These changes and the institutional renewal that came with the
new government, all contributed to the delay in project completion. Since July 2002, FISE has been going
through a process of stabilization, strengthening, and institutional renovation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project Management Issues. During 1999-01, FISE's policies and operations were increasingly affected


                                                       - 16 -

by a growing division between senior managers. This situation gradually led to a virtual schism in the
project cycle, with staff of one section not cooperating with staff of the other section. It also had
implications for operations in the field. This conflict had implications for staff morale and a negative
impact on the introduction of new operational policies and speedy project implementation. The situation
was eventually corrected in July 2002 through an intensive team building process led by the new Executive
President, aimed at re-creating a shared vision in the entire institution.

In addition, one year before the elections, senior FISE staff members were asked to contribute to the ruling
party. After high-level donor intervention, the request was retracted, and a subsequent Bank mission to
audit procurement and financial management did not discover any wrongdoing; neither did an audit carried
out by an audit firm specifically contracted with IDB project funds. Although this situation was relatively
quickly corrected, FISE's former Executive President should have rejected this type of request from the
administration. Based on this experience, FISE then introduced a "code of ethics", approved by FISE
donors, for its staff in the institution's Operations Manual.

Lack of Integrated Management Information System (MIS). Like many other social investment funds,
FISE had two MIS systems, one for operations/subproject management and another for administration and
finance. Both systems provided excellent access to internally consistent data, including the elaborate list of
key performance indicators agreed at appraisal. However, the existence of two parallel systems caused
substantial additional work to reconcile and retrieve data and elaborate management reports. The
management divisions mentioned above resulted in the lack of integration of these two systems. This was,
however, quickly addressed under the incoming management in 2002 so that today, FISE has a sufficiently
integrated system.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost was US$157.8 million, of which IDA financed SDR 32.9 million (this amount was
originally equivalent to US$ 45.0 million, but, due to changes in the exchange rate between the SDR and
the US Dollar, ultimately amounted to US$ 43.8 million) (see Table 4). At appraisal, FISE had expected
US$ 101.6 million in co-financing, but actual funding totaled US$75.3 million or 48 percent of the total
project cost. Government counterpart funding was expected to be US$19.1 million or 12 percent, but
actuals were US$ 38.7 or 24 percent. At appraisal, FISE's operating costs were estimated as 11.6 percent
of FISE's total costs; actual operating costs were 13.6 percent (see Section 7.6).

                                           Table 4. Total Project Cost
                 Source            Estimated Total Cost      Actual Total Cost     Percent of actual total
                                      (US$ millions)          (US$ millions)                 cost

           IDA                              45.0                    43.8                      28

           Government of                    19.1                    38.7                      24
           Nicaragua
           Cofinancing                     101.6                    75.3                      48
           expenditures

           TOTAL                           165.7                   157.8                      100

    Notes: (a) Source: FISE MIS as of October 31, 2003, (b) Cost figures reflect disbursed amounts, and do not
    include the cost of labor, land, and materials contributed by the communities. It should be noted that disbursed
    amounts for subprojects are less than the total cost of contracts for those subprojects, because the latter are put
    into the MIS at an earlier stage of the subproject cycle and include contracts for subproject modifications
    (ordenes de cambio), (c) Government contribution of US$38.7 million includes US$16.6 million for the PMF
    and FISE administrative expenditures.



                                                        - 17 -

Project funding by source is detailed in Table 5 below. The amount disbursed for subprojects was
US$120.9 million, compared to US$136.2 million projected at appraisal. A similar comparison for training
showed US$1.8 million and US$5.6 million, for LSMS and M&E US$1.7 million and US$2.0 million, and
for project administration US$33.5 million and US$21.7 million. IDB was the main funding agency, and
IDA a close second.

                     Table 5. Total Project Cost by Component and Source of Financing
    Project Component        Cost (in US$   Cost (in                      Financed by (in US$ millions)
                              millions, at    US$
                              appraisal)    millions,
                                            actual)       IDA       IDB      OPEC     KFW      GON      ASDI    COSUDE
Subprojects                         136.20       120.87      38.82     44.04    4.00    14.71    13.34      0.93    5.03
Training of                            5.60        1.77       0.75      0.67             0.03               0.32
municipalities/communities


LSMS, Monitoring and                   2.00        1.72       1.66                                          0.06
Evaluation
Project Management                   21.70        33.48       2.55      4.02             0.73     25.4      0.78

TOTAL                               165.70       157.84      43.78     48.73    4.00    15.47    38.74      2.09    5.03
    Notes: See Table 4.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, sustainability is rated as likely.

FISE Sustainability. The probability that FISE will be able to continue its operations is quite high, due to
the fact that it is the most efficient government agency in Nicaragua for the provision of basic social
infrastructure, and is an integral part of the Government's poverty reduction and decentralization strategy.
FISE's internal procedures have proven to be effective in targeting desired groups, ensuring technical
viability and quality investments, promoting local development and providing adequate transparency. Its
targeted allocation of resources and involvement of beneficiary communities reduce major political risks,
and help to ensure that high social return subprojects are directed to the poor. Its menu of subprojects
promotes efficiency, and oversight by external donors has fostered continuity and the preservation of an
institutional memory through FISE's staff. In addition, the Government fully recognizes the pivotal role that
FISE plays in the promotion of local development, and is committed to keeping FISE functioning. Some
issues, correctly identified in the appraisal report, including weak line ministries and limited counterpart
funding, remain. As far as the latter is concerned, it should be noted that some of FISE's operating cost has
been borne by the IDB, which is now gradually being phased out. An issue that will have to be addressed in
the future is the sustainability of the operating costs of the Municipal Technical Units in the decentralized
municipalities. Both, the recent increase in fiscal transfers to municipalities and the new civil servant law
could contribute to helping solve this issue, thus making the probability of sustainability of these efforts
more likely.

Subprojects Sustainability. There is also a high probability that FISE's subprojects will be sustainable,
due to several factors. Primarily, as described above, the PMF exists for education and health
infrastructure maintenance. In addition, the creation of a comprehensive program of beneficiary community
training in the operation and maintenance of all infrastructure subprojects--including the establishment of
user groups/committees for operation and maintenance, and the provision of tool kits for water supply and
sanitation subprojects--will help build greater attention by the communities in operating and sustaining
their facilities. Of course, the completed works will require proper staffing and materials to be provided by


                                                       - 18 -

the responsible line agencies. This is ensured in the case of education, but, despite various agreements with
the Ministry of Health at every level, is still an issue for some health facilities in very remote areas, which
is why FISE, in consultation with the Bank, has drastically cut its involvement in this sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
FISE III has been followed up by the IDA-financed Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
(Credit 3504-NI). This project was launched in 2001, and its main development objective is to assist the
Government in implementing a portion of its poverty reduction strategy through FISE by: (a) continuing to
improve access to priority small-scale social and economic infrastructure and services to the poor; (b)
strengthening local capacity (municipalities, community organizations, NGOs, and the private sector); and
(c) developing a coherent social safety net. The project aims to assist FISE in moving from a strong focus
on infrastructure to a more comprehensive approach of poverty reduction--including greater participation
at the local government and community level, and contributing to the country's social safety net. This
project is providing further assistance to communities in ensuring their proper role in operating and
maintaining completed works.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in preparing the project was highly satisfactory. The Bank arranged for a Japanese
(PHRD) preparation grant to help identify and develop new issues that FISE should be pursuing, including
the need for municipal strengthening to promote community involvement, and the need for more systematic
efforts to address the needs of indigenous communities and the participation of women in the development
process. Bank staff and consultants were associated with the preparation of all aspects of the project,
including scrutiny of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and agreement on a detailed series of key
performance indicators. Bank staff also contributed substantially to helping design the monitoring and
evaluation activities, which were of critical importance to both FISE and Government in designing and
implementing the country's poverty alleviation strategy (see more detail, see 3.5).

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision was also highly satisfactory. The Bank provided ample technical
assistance, and helped FISE deal with its fiduciary responsibilities. A Mid-term Review was carried out in
late-2000 and showed substantial progress in project implementation. The Bank provided detailed advice
and support on (i) technical aspects (LSMS, monitoring and evaluation, MIS, subproject decentralization
pilot, and water supply pilots, indigenous peoples development, gender mainstreaming, environment
standards, etc.), (ii) procurement and financial management aspects: fiduciary issues in particularly were
intensively audited before the elections, to ensure that the Bank's requirements continued to be met, and (iii)
organizational development aspects (institutional diagnostic, facilitation of communication, organizational
structure, etc.). This was done in close coordination with FISE's main donors, frequently carrying out joint
supervision missions. Bank supervision was facilitated by the continuity of staff and an experienced task
team which coordinated closely with. The Bank also responded immediately and well to FISE's request for
a temporary and easier processing following Hurricane Mitch.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
FISE's performance in preparing the project was highly satisfactory. The Government was mostly involved



                                                       - 19 -

in project preparation, through its participation in the successful LSMS and M&E components. However,
it did give FISE full authority to design the project on the basis of technical criteria. With the help of the
PHRD grant, FISE prepared pilots to carry out municipal/community micro-planning; subproject
management by the municipalities; and indigenous development activities. FISE's team was experienced
and dedicated, and provided major inputs for both the subproject investment and the study components of
the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during project implementation is rated satisfactory. Particularly under the
first administration, the Government did allow FISE all necessary leeway to carry out its agreed program
activities. Although it provided less than the required counterpart funding (see Section 5.2), this did not
affect the quantity and quality of implementation. The inclusion of the FISE Executive President in the
Social Cabinet facilitated coordination among ministries and agencies, although there was room for
improvement.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
FISE's performance during implementation was satisfactory. FISE did a good job in helping promote
major social and poverty-related studies, in producing good products in technical terms, and in designing
and starting the pilots aimed at municipal/community micro-planning and subproject management by
selected municipalities, and a generally good job in meeting its fiduciary responsibilities. Various
procurement and financial management review missions by Bank staff and consultants found few and
minor issues, which were generally corrected satisfactorily. Similarly, the annual financial audits and
quarterly operational audits, which were useful as a management instrument, did not identify major issues.
FISE's environmental unit did a very good job in developing helpful tools and mainstreaming
environmental aspects, and should be an example for other social investment funds. In fact, the unit
manager helped another Nicaraguan agency to establish a similar methodology and approach. FISE also
was very active in obtaining additional donor funding, and in responding to Hurricane Mitch. However,
FISE did not progressively pursue some of the more innovative practices and operations (including
implementing appropriate technology in the Atlantic Region, and water supply and sanitation), temporary
hindered by internal frictions, and did not sufficiently reach out to potential allies like INIFOM. As
explained in Annex 8, the cost of administration at 13.6 percent of subproject investments was acceptable
(the extremes being 10.5 percent in 2000 and 22.6 percent in 2002) but on average somewhat higher than
in the past (11%). This was due to: (i) the introduction of cross-cutting themes and the consequent
recruitment of additional staff and consultants dealing with gender, environment, indigenous populations,
community strengthening, and municipal capacity building; and (ii) the one-year freeze of investment
commitments.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, taking into account that FISE was operating in a
conservative environment for the most part where there was little or no outside institutional support.




                                                      - 20 -

8. Lessons Learned

Promotion of Subproject Sustainability. The issue of subproject sustainability is crucially important and
complex, involving both the central and local levels. FISE III was unable to foster line agency involvement
in the maintenance of completed facilities, and the municipalities/communities experienced funding
constraints. To address the maintenance needs and promote the various participants' sense of
responsibility, FISE introduced the concept of pooling funds for maintenance with the creation of the PMF.
Funding was to be provided by the responsible line agency, the municipality/community, and FISE
(one-third each). Although this effort was only partially successful, it did help to make the municipalities
aware of their responsibilities, and increased the likelihood of sustainable subprojects.

Introduction of Innovative Approaches. New approaches need time to be integrated, particularly in a
conservative environment such as Nicaragua, where there is also a lack of general institutional capacity,
both at the central and local government levels. This weak capacity justified the major efforts aimed at
micro-planning and municipal management of the subproject cycle, and identifying new mechanisms to deal
with the special needs of the indigenous population. Also, although issues such as environment, indigenous
population, and gender equality were initially seen as "donor-driven," continued donor emphasis on the
importance of these issues has gradually made them part of FISE's agenda. In addition, more recently, the
new concepts have been accepted outside FISE. For example, both INIFOM and the rural development
agency have received advice from FISE.

Decentralization of Subproject Cycle to Local Level. Decentralization of the subproject cycle improved
client responsiveness and municipal participation; increased managerial capacity of local governments; and
reduced subproject costs. However, its cost-effectiveness is not clear; local governments' lack of
appropriate funding endangers hiring of qualified staff to operate subprojects. Finally, participation and
capacity building has to be balanced carefully between communities and municipal governments.

Involvement of NGOs and Other Community-Based Organizations. Social funds should continue to
promote the involvement of NGOs and other community-based organizations, particularly in training
activities related to participatory planning and operations and maintenance. There is a tendency on the part
of the client to want to keep control of all aspects of implementation, and not to involve organizations such
as NGOs, and work directly with communities. Although FISE contracted NGOs to handle
municipality/community training in micro-planning, it could have done much more to benefit from the
comparative advantages some NGOs have, for example, in community development, water supply
programs. The social fund managers may need to be encouraged more strongly by the Bank to involve
specialized and experienced NGOs in design and implementation of programs and operations.

Continuity and Experience of Staff: The same Bank staff was available throughout project design and
implementation, which did contribute to institutional memory, and helped consistency in the Bank response.
There was also continuity in FISE and until the elections; the senior management team did not change until
2002. Thus, for most of the implementation period, the Bank and FISE team had a lot of experience
together and a good working relationship with each other. It is clear that substantial changes in managers
are costly; the drastic change in management following the elections obviously caused some delay in project
implementation, particularly since there had been high staff continuity for about ten years. An extra effort
to train the new managers and staff after the changes, particularly in fiduciary matters, could have helped
mitigate the impact.




                                                      - 21 -

Importance of Poverty Map. As evidenced in FISE, the use of an accurate and agreed poverty map for
subproject resource allocation can help a social investment fund withstand political pressures to lend more
to favored municipalities and communities. Still, social investment funds as other social programs, are
attractive and therefore subject to political influence, and this requires careful monitoring. Social
investment funds should be encouraged to adopt a Code of Ethics to guide program staff in decisions and
procedures, and protect them as far as possible from political interference.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Objectives and Outcomes of FISE III

The general objective of the project was to improve living conditions for the poorest segments of the
Nicaraguan population, reduce the negative effects caused by deterioration or lack of small-scale social
infrastructure that provides basic services in education, health, water and sanitation, with an emphasis on
the most vulnerable communities, and to focus efforts on ensuring, through community and local
participation, the operation, sustained use and maintenance of the facilities built.

In this context, the Emergency Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia, FISE)
transitioned from being an institution responding to conditions produced by the ravages of war and
structural adjustment policies to an effective and operational instrument of the Government of Nicaragua
for alleviating poverty, thereby aiding in obtaining better investments in human capital through the
provision of basic social infrastructure.

The impact evaluation showed significant results: regarding primary education, in the rate of enrollment,
promotions and in the age for entering the first grade, as well as in the rate of access (25 percent);
regarding drinking water, in improvements in the quantity and quality of the service, and a reduction in the
distance to water stations (600 meters); and regarding health, in the reduction of negative effects in
height­weight­age indicators, malnutrition and diarrhea. The progress achieved thus demonstrated the
strength that institutional capacity represents for the country.

The New Institutional Paradigm

A new paradigm was defined as part of the project based on a vision of local development, decentralization
and citizen participation, and it incorporates a cross-section of elements, such as environmental
management, gender and attention to vulnerable (ethnic) groups, which made it possible to improve
efficiency, equality and sustainability in the provision of public goods and services, as well as social
controls. This context considered the local government and the communities to be the main partners
working to achieve the project goals.

This new model yielded positive results by basing itself on demand, integrating the social fabric of the
communities with the institutional fabric of the local governments, establishing a new relationship in the
levels of government, sharing in decision making, increasing the competitiveness of local actors and their
responsibility for preventive maintenance, and facilitating coordination of the agencies intervening at the
local level. The model was one approach developed within the country in the area of decentralization and
now constitutes the premise for territorial and sectoral organization for investment.

The design of this model introduces a few complexities, such as changes in the way investments are made,
an integrated focus, an emphasis on the process, negotiation with stakeholders, and transfer of



                                                      - 22 -

responsibilities. It was not always possible to meet needed requirements appropriately in the time available,
since the goals also had to be met.

Geographic Distribution and Focus on Project Benefits

FISE, in conjunction with the National Institute of Statistics and Census (Instituto Nicaragüense de
Estadísticas y Censos), the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (Secretaría Técnica de la Presidencia),
and the World Bank, drew up the new poverty map officially recognized by the Nicaraguan Government as
being the most reliable instrument for the allocation of resources, and as a reliable and effective tool for
designing policies and programs focusing on the poor and for prioritizing primary education, water supply,
health, social welfare and other services.

Use of the map makes it possible to redistribute funds, concentrating a greater percentage of the resources
disbursed on the poorer areas of the country. FISE was able to prioritize its resources for poverty
alleviation, although some aspects were not always as suitable as they could have been.

Vulnerability and Risk

At the end of 1998, Hurricane Mitch placed Central America and Nicaragua in categories of high
vulnerability and risk. Project execution and institutional dynamics changed as a result of the devastating
impact of the hurricane and the organizational and administrative measures that were taken to deal with the
emergency. FISE decentralized, with flexible, forceful and appropriate procedures for meeting the demands
arising from the destruction and for rebuilding damaged infrastructure.

Because of the emergency caused by Hurricane Mitch, along with the rains that occurred in the following
years, FISE concentrated its efforts and resources on establishing different methods of operation, with the
result that expected outcomes from investments in extreme poverty were not achieved during the period,
given the appearance of bias that produced distrust in the way resources were allocated.

Institutional Strengthening and Environment

FISE was given a window of opportunity in which to develop a strategic plan based on the logical
framework, in which it presented a vision of the future, a programmatic goal, the quality of the goods and
services to be delivered, achievement and impact indicators, an updated objective, and a risk analysis. This
became more ingrained with the new administration, once it could rely on an operational planning
instrument, the Annual Operation Plan (AOP).

Also of note is the creation of various institutional mechanisms within the regulatory framework. Most
notable among these are the Operational Regulations, which represent a compilation of the concepts,
criteria and principal rules, for both the institution and its Project, which were arrived at by a consensus of
all the stakeholders.

Research and development introduced new typologies to the menu of projects, and programs such as the
Social Development Innovation Fund (Fondo de Innovación para el Desarrollo Social) and the indigenous
program were defined, a system was applied to monitor the quality of works, the impact and qualitative
assessment of beneficiaries and the performance indicators that measure institutional activities.

An institutional diagnostic was conducted and identified problems in the management of project cycles
(duplication), a lack of attention to municipalities, problems of communication and coordination, as well as


                                                       - 23 -

the internal problems already indicated arising from disputes that have now been overcome with the new
administration, which was able to redirect the institution's challenges to the new circumstances and context.


Other items that affected the institution were the electoral situation over the past few years, which naturally
produced changes in both the local and central governments. These processes produced institutional
instability and inertia at all levels of government.

Outlook

Looking ahead, the National Development Strategy, the Enhanced Strategy for Economic Growth and
Poverty Reduction (Estrategia Reforzada de Crecimiento Económico y Reducción de Pobreza) (so named
by the President's Secretariat for Coordination and Strategy [Secretaría de Coordinación y Estrategia de
la Presidencia]), the Solidarity Program, the National Decentralization Policy aimed at local development,
and the new methodology for allocating resources from financial institutions and international cooperation,
namely the sector wide approach (SWAp), all constitute a new macroinstitutional framework necessarily
encompassing public social investment in Nicaragua and FISE, a multisectoral crosscutting investment
fund linking the central and local levels.

These changes will imply new ways of operating for various strategic plans within FISE, including
fundraising, methodologies for targeting and allocating funds, transitioning from a project management
focus to a programmatic sectoral and territorial focus for investment based on targeted and externalized
(decentralized) demand, changed project components (human and social capital), typologies and design
reflecting the various geographic and strategic realities of the nation (business agglomerations and
opportunities, public service coverage and social welfare interventions), simpler procedures and increased
flexibility, financial sustainability, and as a result, institutional strengthening.

It will also be necessary to resolve the discrepancy in the social policy and investment applied to the poor
that exists between the need for jobs and income that will bring them into the country's economic and
productive life and the provision of infrastructure as an instrument for alleviating poverty.

A map is currently being drawn up reflecting the level of poverty and of dynamism of each municipality.
Six categories will be established, making it possible to streamline all the government's resources within
different investment packages, starting from basic services, maintenance and infrastructure, investments in
infrastructure, development and social welfare services. FISE will find its proper place within this
structure, given its basic investment approach and its clearly differentiated products.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederafbau (KfW)

In the period following Hurricane Mitch (1999-2002), a limitation of FISE was its failure to appropriately
base municipal allocations on the Poverty Map, having invested significant resources in 23 municipalities
belonging to the two groups that were the least poor, allocated to 53 municipalities belonging to the poorest
group. Along this same line, for the first time in its institutional history, FISE invested resources that were
not considered part of the stock of money subject to the equity guidelines of the Poverty Map, for purposes
of investing in "on request" projects that were not considered in the Municipal Investment Plans. These
additional resources mainly came from revenues from the central government.

Another limitation that needs to be mentioned deals with the emphasis FISE gave to the municipal factor, to



                                                        - 24 -

the detriment of the community factor, i.e., the training, strengthening and qualification of communities and
the various types of local development committees (follow-up committees, as FISE calls them). The reason
for pointing this out is the conviction that if the social funds attend to municipal strengthening and
decentralized management of project cycles, it is because by doing so, they can work better and more
effectively to serve poor communities.

Related to the above is the operation of the Preventive Maintenance Fund (PMF), which should have
required greater attention by the communities themselves, in close collaboration, of course, with the
respective municipality. Decentralizing at the local level does not necessarily mean centralizing at the
municipal level, since the communities themselves can take charge of managing the maintenance funds for
each of their projects.

A point that needs to be underlined is the excessive attention that FISE gave to the educational
infrastructure projects, to the detriment of requests from the communities for small projects involving
drinking water, basic sanitation and tertiary communications channels.

A consequence of FISE's insufficient collaboration with the sectoral authorities stood out in the evaluation
of PMF's performance, in which the lack of awareness of the existence and benefits of PMF at the central
levels of the Ministries of Education and Health was shown to be a serious weakness. This situation was
even more obvious in 2001 and 2002, since almost 60 percent of PMF's resources were affected.

We are aware of the financial shortcomings of the Nicaraguan Government, yet that is no reason to conceal
the fact that the FISE budget (including the budget for operating expenses) is essentially covered by
international cooperation, and in the case of the decentralized municipalities, FISE transferred the problem
of sustainability of the Municipal Technical Units' operating costs to them.

We believe it is important to mention that FISE was quickly able to overcome the temptation to continue
working in emergency mode once the very brief period of actual emergency had passed. Not having fallen
into this temptation saved FISE from the serious problems that other funds in the area continue to suffer.
Lastly, we wish to point out that during the period corresponding to this ICR, KfW's contribution (in the
form of a grant) was in the range of US$15.5 million.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                       - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Sectoral distribution and amount (in US$     Education: 1,260 (40.9)                   Education: 1,880 (66.3)
million) of contracted sub-projects           Health: 1,307 (23.1)                      Health: 365 (20.2)
                                              Water and Sanitation: 327 (25.9)          Water and Sanitation: 145 (13.9)
                                              Other community services and              Other community services and
                                             municipalities: 363 (15.0)                     municipalities: 364 (17.0)
                                              Social assistance sector: 379 (20.4)      Social assistance sector: 128 ( 7.1)
                                              Environment: 134 (10.9)                   Environment: 6 ( 0.5)
Distribution of per capita investment of     Extreme: 124                              Extreme: 55
sub-projects contracted in each of the three  High:       37                            High:    30
poverty categories (in US$)                   Medium:       6                           Medium: 21
PMF coverage in terms of the number of       Number of schools and pre-schools: 1450 Number of schools and preschools: 6160
establishments of the primary education and Number of health posts: 175              Number of health posts: 1097
health networks


Source: FISE MIS as of June 30, 2003
Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Number and amount (in US$ millions) of           3,770; (US$136.2)                     2,888 (US$ 125.12)
contracted sub-projects (both centralized and
decentralized)


Number of municipalities that have access to     146                                   144
the Preventive Maintenance Fund (PMF)
Number of municipalities with Tri-Annual         Extreme: 36                           Extreme: 35
Municipal Investment Plan (MIP), according         High:     20                         High: 23
to poverty level                                   Medium: 4                            Medium:2


Number of Community Sub-Project
Committees with second-round training:             1,500                                 1,450
Total men and women:                               7,500                                 5,664
Total women:                                       2,250                                   883
Total number and amount (in US$ millions) of     3,963 (US$170.0)                      2,975 (US$153.28)
evaluated projects

1End of project
"Projected in last PSR column" are taken from numbers projected in January 1998 for December 2001.
"Actual/latest estimate column" are numbers as of June 30, 2003 (closing date). During project implementation,
FISE used a list of 51 indicators (see PAD); these tables reflect the major ones.




                                                               - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   Appraisal         Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate            Estimate          Appraisal
                          Component                                US$ million         US$ million
1. Subprojects                                                       136.20               120.87                 89
2. Capacity Building of Municipalities/Communities                      5.60                 1.77                32
3. LSMS, Monitoring and Evaluation                                      2.00                 1.72                86
4. Project Management                                                 21.90                33.48                153

Total Baseline Cost                                                  165.70               157.84
                            Total Project Costs                      165.70               157.84
                     Total Financing Required                        165.70               157.84
Note: Cost reflects disbursed amount.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB              NCB                      2          N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                                0.00             26.20             11.70             96.50          134.40
                                      (0.00)            (26.20)           (11.70)            (0.00)         (37.90)
2. Goods                                2.00             1.30               0.10              0.00           3.40
                                      (2.00)             (1.30)            (0.10)            (0.00)          (3.40)
3. Services                             0.00             0.00               3.70              5.00           8.70
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.70)            (0.00)          (3.70)
4. FISE Operating Costs                 0.00             0.00               0.00             19.20           19.20
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
    Total                               2.00             27.50             15.50             120.70         165.70
                                      (2.00)            (27.50)           (15.50)            (0.00)         (45.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB              NCB                     2          N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                          Other
1. Works                                0.00             22.22             20.20             82.70         125.12
                                      (0.00)            (22.22)           (20.20)           (0.00)         (42.42)
2. Goods                                0.34             0.49               0.53             0.18           1.54
                                      (0.34)            (0.49)            (0.53)            (0.00)          (1.36)
3. Services                             0.00             0.00               3.80             3.99           7.79
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)            (3.80)            (0.00)          (3.80)
4. FISE Operating Costs                 0.00             0.00               0.00             25.40          25.40
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
    Total                               0.34             22.71             24.53            112.27         159.85
                                      (0.34)            (22.71)           (24.53)           (0.00)         (47.58)
Notes: (a) Source: FISE MIS procurement data as of October 31, 2003, (b) Figures are contracted amounts and may
not add up due to rounding; (c) Contracted amount for works (both total cost and cost funded by IDA) exceeds



                                                      - 27 -

   disbursed amount, because MIS procurement data for each sub-project reflect all contract amounts, including
   amounts of recontracting where applicable.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Subprojects                 39.70         0.00        96.50       38.82         13.34     68.71       97.8      0.0      71.2
2. Capacity Building of         0.60         0.00         5.00        0.75         0.00       1.02       125.0     0.0      20.4
municipalities and
communities
3. LSMS, Monitoring and         2.00         0.00         0.00        1.66         0.00       0.06       83.0      0.0       0.0
Evaluation
4. Project Management           2.60        19.10         0.00        2.55         25.40      5.53       98.1     133.0      0.0
Total                          45.00        19.10       101.50       43.78         38.74     75.32       97.3     202.8     74.2

   Notes: (a) Figures are disbursed amounts, (b) IDA total reflects US$1.2 million "exchange loss", (c) Amounts may
   not add up due to rounding.




                                                           - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Since the FISE project is fully demand driven, no cost-benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal.
However, as described below, a great number of relevant evaluations and studies were carried out during
project implementation. Since these studies are expensive and the outcomes are still relevant, no ex-post
                         1


study is planned for FISE III.

Ex-Post Impact Evaluation Results
The Ex-Post Impact Evaluation was carried out in 1998-1999, and reviewed the impact of FISE's primary
education, rural health post, latrine, and water and sewerage subprojects executed between January 1994
and June 1997 with respect to: (a) targeting the poorest municipalities, communities, and households; (b)
community priorities and participation; (c) subproject utilization rates and operational and physical
sustainability, and d) impact on beneficiaries' access to services and health and education status. The report
was completed and issued in December 2000, largely due to the complexity of the work.

Nicaragua was one of the first countries to conduct an impact evaluation of its social fund, using
methodologies based on the use of a comparison group to construct a counterfactual. The impact evaluation
was also one of the first to assess a social fund's household level poverty targeting, which was carried out
by comparing FISE beneficiary households' consumption levels to the national distribution as established in
the 1998 Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS).

Poverty Targeting
The results of FISE's poverty targeting were assessed at the municipal, community, and household levels.
At all three levels, FISE proved successful in reaching the poor:

   l At the municipal level, the study found that "extremely poor" municipalities received more FISE
         resources per capita than the other municipal categories, and that the resource allocation to the
         poorest had become more progressive over time. However, the allocation varied substantially by
         sector. FISE water system investments were the most progressive in reaching municipalities in
         extreme poverty, as almost half of the investments were directed to this group. Education and
         health investments were also well targeted at extreme and high-poverty municipalities. Equally,
         investments in the environment, municipal infrastructure, and latrines were reasonably well
         targeted. Most regressive were investments in social assistance, as less than 10 percent of those
         investments went to municipalities in extreme poverty and more than 40 percent to municipalities
         with medium and low poverty levels.
   l At the community level, the study showed that both education and health investments were
         reasonably well targeted to potential beneficiaries: in education the poorest 40 percent received just
         over 40 percent of investments and in health they received 58 percent. However, sewerage
         investments were regressive with the poorest 40 percent receiving less than five percent of
         investments.
   l At the household level, the study showed that targeting of both education and health investments
         was slightly more progressive than at the community level, reflecting the fact that poorer
         households within the targeted communities chose to use FISE investments. FISE latrine
         investments were very pro-poor, with over one-third of investments targeting direct beneficiaries in
         the poorest one-fifth of the population. In contrast, FISE's sewerage investments were less well
         targeted, with the least poor 30 percent of households receiving close to 60 percent of investments.
         Water investments were distributed about even across the population.

FISE aims to reach the poorest of the poor. However, the household data reveal that only in primary


                                                      - 29 -

education and latrines (not in health, water and sewerage) were FISE investments progressively distributed
among the 17 percent of the population living in extreme poverty, and only for latrines do these investments
remain progressive for the poorest 10 percent.

Impact Results and Sustainability
The study showed that most beneficiaries were satisfied by their experience with FISE, as over 80 percent
deemed the experience to be either satisfactory or extremely satisfactory. FISE's investments were generally
the most valued investments received by the communities, although community participation in subproject
design, construction, and supervision was found to be insufficient. Government participation was also
considered insufficient, as 70 percent of beneficiaries believed that local government did not participate in
key aspects of subproject development. They also believed that responsible line agencies were not able to
provide adequate maintenance services; only half thought that the participation of the Ministry of
Education was good or average, and less than half had that impression of the Ministry of Health.

The study showed a significant, robust impact of FISE's primary education investments on education
outcomes, and pointed to a significant probable impact of FISE's water investments on health outcomes.
FISE's water and sanitation investments significantly improved access to those services, but no measured
impact was detected on health outcomes. The results of FISE's health investments pointed to a probable,
significant impact on the utilization of health posts to treat children with diarrhea, but showed no impact on
health outcomes. Results by sector were as follows:

   l In the educationsector, FISE's interventions induced: (i) increased enrollment in schools by
        one-fifth; (ii) a significant drop of the age of children entering primary school from 8.6 years to 7.9
        years old; and (iii) a reduction of the education gap (the difference between students' actual and
        ideal age for grade), particularly for children from the poorest quintiles. They also showed an
        increase in the number of teachers and staff, as well as better access to piped water, electricity, and
        bathrooms.
   l In the health sector, the study showed an increased use of rural health posts in specific instances,
        such as children under six years of age suffering from diarrhea; however, FISE's impact on health
        outcomes was not clear. It also showed that FISE's health posts had more staff and volunteers, and
        had more medical materials, equipment, and furniture.
   l In the water sector, data showed that in areas of FISE investments there was a net increase of 25
        percent in households with access to piped water. There was a positive impact on the distance to
        the water sources, as well as a positive effect on stunting in children under six, reducing the
        incidence from 25 percent to 14 percent. However, although maintenance proved generally
        acceptable, half of the completed systems did not provide sufficient water. Also, community
        participation was insufficient.
   l Sewerage investments had a positive impact on access to sewerage systems, but were generally
        and almost unavoidably not located in the poorest areas, and connection rates were frequently low.
        In addition, community participation was minimal. On the positive side, beneficiaries reported that
        the presence of the systems has led to improvements in road connections, the incidence of sickness,
        as well as insects and standing water.
   l Latrine investments generated a net increase in access to sanitation facilities of close to 20 percent
        in the communities where FISE invested, but no significant results were found of the impact on
        diarrhea or malnutrition.

Cost Studies
Cost studies were carried out to assess whether the execution of subprojects by FISE was more efficient
than other agencies, as well as to identify the reasons for differences in cost structures. The studies' main


                                                      - 30 -

findings were that:

    l In education, FISE incurs more costs than comparable agencies, but this can be explained by the
        fact that FISE spends a considerable amount of resources on external works, such as retention
        walls, terraces, as well as playing fields. In addition, community contributions to the cost of works
        were less for FISE than for others.
    l In health, FISE is also more expensive than other agencies, which in this case is due to the better
        quality of construction materials and generally better infrastructure design. In this sector,
        community contributions to the cost of the works were higher for FISE than for other agencies.
        Regarding latrines, FISE is more expensive, with the exception of PRODEL (Local Development
        Program/Programa de Desarrollo Local). This seems partly due to geographical reasons, such as
        difficult access. Also, in comparison, FISE has more extensive and, thus, more costly
        pre-investment and supervision methods.
    l In water supply, FISE is also more expensive than other agencies. However, FISE's water
        subprojects are technically more complex. Except for Doctors Without Borders, FISE subprojects
        get less from beneficiary communities than other financing agencies. This is due to FISE's policy of
        paying for unskilled labor, because it was created as an employment generating social fund. Last
        year, FISE, in coordination with INIFOM, changed this policy, and is now asking for community
        contributions in the form of unskilled labor, materials, land, or cash.
    l In sewerage/sanitation, PRODEL and ENACAL show higher costs than FISE. Like in the water
        sector, other agencies ask for higher community contributions. It should be noted that, in this sector
        too, FISE places more emphasis on materials, pre-investment, and supervision.

The studies conclude that, taking into account all construction and administrative costs and the quality of
the end-products, FISE is basically not more expensive than others. However, it is evident that the cost
issue warrants considerable further attention. The studies also point out, and the Bank and other donor staff
findings confirm, that:

    l FISE generally makes use of higher quality materials and better construction methods, has a
        nation-wide coverage with very disperse geographic areas, and contracts out all of its construction
        work.
    l In all sectors, except for health, community contributions to FISE's subprojects are lower than the
        counterpart funding for works carried out by other agencies.
    l FISE exerts a better control of its projects through its project management tools and use of its
        software system. FISE clearly comes out as the leader in terms of defining the different steps of
        each project cycle, ex-ante analysis, and supervision of subprojects.
    l In comparison to other agencies, FISE has a more positive impact on the private and public sector,
        by setting points of reference, such as prices and procedures, for the building industry.

It should be noted that, methodologically, the study posed a challenge: given the relative size of FISE's
social investment, there is no comparable agency in terms of size. Therefore, other social investment
programs were chosen not based on size, but based on comparable units of their relevant subprojects: the
Ministry of Education's APRENDE for schools, PRODEL for sewerage and latrines, and Doctors Without
Borders for latrines. In the water and health sector, it was difficult to find comparable subprojects, given
the scale and complexity of FISE's subprojects.

1
 The information in this section is taken from Annex 4 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the Nicaragua
Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project.




                                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              3/18/1997                 3    TM(1) BANK STAFF (2)
              09/04/1997                5    TM(1) BANK STAFF(2)
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              06/02/1998                6    TM(1) BANK STAFF (2)
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)

 Supervision

              01/15/1999                7    TM (1); INDIGENOUS               S               S
                                             GROUPS (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                             (1); GENERAL (1);
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS (1);
                                             NGO'S (1);
                                             WATER/SANITATION (1)
              06/22/1999                3    SOCIAL FUNDS                     S               S
                                             SPECIALIST(1); KFW
                                             CONSULTANT (1); TEAM
                                             LEADER (1)
              12/22/1999                5    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL         HS              S
                                             FUNDS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             INDIGENOUS PEOPLE SPEC
                                             (1); MUNICIPAL DEVEL.
                                             SPEC (1)
              10/27/2000                9    TASK MANAGER (1); SIF            S               S
                                             ORG.& MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             MONITORING & EVAL. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); KFW (2)
              04/30/2001                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SOCIAL FUND SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              02/20/2002                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PARTICIPATION/ MPP (1);
                                             MIS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SUPERVISION SPECIALIST
                                             (1)


 ICR



                                              - 32 -

               11/03/2003             3     TASK LEADER(1);
                                            SOCIAL FUND
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               14                       43,218
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     4                       12,348

  Supervision                              73                      225,351
  ICR                                      10                       30,870
  Total                                  101                       311,787




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Indigenous
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Analysis of FISE's Experience with the Municipal and Community Strengthening Program, Stephen A.
Grun and Pablo R. Schneider, July 2000.
2. Complementary Analysis of Cost-Efficiency Study, Eduardo Araujo, Raúl Lema, and Cristian Hurtado,
December 2000.
3. Cost-Efficiency Study of FISE, Phase II, Gustavo Bermudez, Ligia Maria Castro, and Ana Victoria
Fiallos, January 2000.
4. Evaluation of Current Administration and Management of Project Cycle Capabilities of Nicaraguan
Municipalities, Manuel Ortega Hegg, Mario Castro Merlo, Guadalupe Wallace Salinas, August 2000.
5. Evaluation of FISE's Execution of Disaster Mitigation and Prevention Measures, Walter Soundy and
Osmar Velasco, November 2000.
6. Evaluation of FISE's Project Cycle Decentralization Program, Stephen Grun, June 2002.
7. Evaluation of Preventive Maintenance Fund (PMF), CEPRODEL, January 2003.
8. Evaluating Social Funds: A Cross-Country Analysis of Community Investments, Laura Rawlings,
Lynne Sherburne-Benz, Julie Van Domelen, 2004.
9. FISE Annual Report, 2002.
10 Gender Strategy for FISE, Joke Oranje, 1997.
11. Joint Evaluation of the Micro-Planning Process (MPP)-FISE-PROTIERRA/INIFOM, KfW and World
Bank, January 2000.
12. Nicaragua Ex-Post Impact Evaluation of the Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE), World Bank
Report No. 20400-NI, December 2000.
13. Nicaragua Public Expenditure Review, World Bank, Latin America and the Caribbean Region, Report
23095-NI, 2001.
14. Qualitative FISE Beneficiary Assessment, 1997-1998, IDEAS, May 2000.
15. Report on First Evaluation of Graduate Course in Potable Water and Rural Sanitation,
UNICA-FISE, August 2002.
16. Social Assessment and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP), Ximena Traa-Valarezo, July
1998.
17. Social Funds: A Review of World Bank Experience, World Bank Operations Evaluation Department,
October 2001.




                                                  - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. FISE's Contribution to Capital Investment in Health and Education

FISE's contribution in health and education has been critical in three areas:
a.       The management and operation of primary health and basic education infrastructure;
b.       The design and implementation of infrastructure maintenance at the local level; and
c.       Local participation in infrastructure planning.

These three areas have produced tangible benefits at the local level that go beyond the typical provision of
social infrastructure by line ministries.

The management and operation of primary health and basic education infrastructure. Public
investment in Nicaragua during the past decade has varied (World Bank, 2001. Nicaragua Public
Expenditure Review. Report N. 23095-NI, Central American Department, Latin America and the
Caribbean Region. Washignton D.C., pp. 59-63, and pp. 93-95). This variability has been the result of
events related to inadequate government planning and to external shocks, such as Hurricane Mitch in 1998,
the presidential elections of 2001, and the disturbance related to the fight against corruption in 2002.
Throughout the 1992-2002 period, FISE maintained a more stable pattern of infrastructure investment than
the national trend (Fig. A1). This stability was especially helpful between 1994 and 2000, since it allowed
the Ministries of Health and Education to respond more effectively to their constituencies during a period of
high volatility in the Government's capital investment portfolio. Even though FISE's performance declined
after 2000 (due largely to managerial problems), it must be recognized that it contributed significantly to
the stability of public infrastructure investment for most of the past decade.


                                      Fig. A1. Stability of FISE expenditures vs. Government
                                                         C apital Expenditures as % o f G D P


                                  4 5                                                                                                         2 5

                                  4 0

                                  3 5                                                                                                         2 0

                                  3 0
                      US$                                                                                                                     1 5
                                  2 5                                                                                                             GDP
                                                                                                                                                     of
                                  2 0
                                                                                                                                              1 0      %
                         Millions 1 5

                                  1 0                                                                                                         5
                                    5

                                    0                                                                                                         0
                                      1 9 9 1 1 9 9 2 1 9 9 3 1 9 9 4 1 9 9 5 1 9 9 6 1 9 9 7 1 9 9 8 1 9 9 9 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 2 0 0 2 2 0 0 3


                                                                    FISE Exp              C a p E x p a s % o f G D P


                  Source: Based on data from FISE Annual Report 2002, World Bank, 2001, and IMF, 2003.

The share of social sector direct investment. FISE manages between 25 and 30 percent of capital
expenditures in the social sector. Public investment figures in Nicaragua generally include capital
expenditures and some recurrent expenditures funded by external loans and grants. FISE figures reported
here refer only to the value of the infrastructure contracts, while capital expenditures for health and
education refer to the value of all external loans and grants, plus counterpart funding from the Government.
As such, the contribution of FISE tends to be underestimated. As opposed to the traditional approach to
capital spending by line ministries, FISE has implanted some key innovations in infrastructure planning and
management at the local level that directly and indirectly benefit social sector performance and social
capital development. First, FISE organizes and trains local groups in planning, monitoring, and maintaining




                                                                                     - 37 -

social infrastructure through a program called Micro-Planificación Participativa, a program that has had
great success at the municipal level in poor areas. Second, FISE has been instrumental in reaching poor
areas through the use of its poverty map. This targeting approach has induced the Health and Education
ministries to assign resources to poor areas--something that in practice line ministries have been reluctant
to do in the past, due to the urban bias of their staff. Third, FISE has started to include preventive
maintenance as part of its local training programs, assigning maintenance funds on a cost-share basis with
participating municipalities. As a result, local communities feel compelled to maintain their infrastructure
instead of neglecting it, as typically happens to infrastructure when it is given away to communities without
local participation in its planning, management, and funding.

The above approach to infrastructure investment in health and education has produced positive externalities
that are not easily accounted for by line ministries or by FISE, since separating the relative contribution of
the approach to health and education performance is extremely hard to do with the existing data. However,
as a recent World Bank evaluation pointed out, local communities tend to consume more health and
education services in FISE-covered areas.

Between 1998 and 2002, the time period for FISE III, FISE provided and managed between 18 and 35
percent of the health infrastructure, and between 25 and 35 percent of the education infrastructure (Table
A1).

         Table A1. Capital expenditures in health and education and the shares administered by FISE,
         1998-2002 (in Córdobas)
                                 1998             1999             2000              2001               2002
         Capital               240,270,210       425,889,566      506,639,455      332,272,618       481,357,328
         Expenditures in
         Health
         Capital               131,038,400       449,038,599      643,725,597      645,606,386       737,789,404
         Expenditures in
         Education
         FISE's Share of        58,169,533        78,510,579      104,654,442      117,029,393       104,212,935
         Health Capital
         Expenditures
         FISE's Share of       126,856,425       113,324,354      183,145,274      211,602,580       230,721,352
         Capital
         Expenditures in
         Education
         % of Health                    24.2             18.4             20.6             35.2             21.6
         Infrastructure
         % of Education                 96.8             25.2             28.4             32.8             31.3
         Infrastructure
         Source: Sistema Nacional de Inversiones Públicas (SNIP). Values for FISE-administered investments for
         2000 are estimates using a ratio of 20% of FISE investments assigned to health and a ratio of 35%
         assigned to education. These ratios are midway between the ratios for 1999 and 2001.

In practice, the direct infrastructure investment for health and education managed by FISE is higher than
80 percent. The difference is due to expenditures for hospital rehabilitation by the Ministry of Health and
for the construction of schools by the SIMCEP unit (Primary School Improvement System/Sistema de
Mejoramiento de Centros Escolares de Primaria) within the Ministry of Education. Infrastructure



                                                      - 38 -

construction outside of FISE is not targeted by the poverty map, and follows different selection criteria,
which is guided by the service needs of each Ministry to comply with its national mandate.

FISE's cost of managing and executing infrastructure subprojects for health and education includes, on
average, an overhead of about 15 percent of its total expenditures for schools, health centers and health
posts (Table A2). (The recent decline in the amounts contracted by FISE in 2002 has increased the
overhead rate to about 22 percent.) If administration expenditures are included in the total budget, the
administrative cost comes to about about 13 percent. Using these percentages, the average cost of a
FISE-built classroom in a three-classroom school is about US$20,000. The same classroom built directly
by the Ministry of Education costs around US$17,000, or about 17 percent less. The difference is largely
due to two factors: the higher salaries paid to FISE staff, and the efforts made by FISE to involve the
community from the beginning. This latter factor increases the indirect costs of infrastructure, but it has the
advantage of increasing the sustainability of social investment. In essence, the Government is charging the
direct cost of improving sustainability--a public good--to FISE, while the Health and Education ministries
receive the benefits.

                  TableA2.AdministrativeloadingofFISE,1998-2002
                  Sector                         US$Millions
                  Education                         71.51
                  Health                            20.62
                  Social Assistance                 6.61
                  Water                             13.53
                  Municipalities                    17.22
                  Environment                       0.19
                  Total contracted                 129.68
                  Administration                    19.89
                  %Administrativeload               15.3
                  Administrationas%ofthe            13.3
                  totalFISEbudget

                           Source: FISE 2002 Annual Report.

Aside from managing the planning, construction, and maintenance of health and education infrastructure,
FISE has been instrumental in clarifying the technical standards for schools, health centers, and health
posts. To achieve some sort of economies of scale in contracting out infrastructure, FISE had to be very
precise in specifying the technical requirements of each project. As a result, the Ministries of Health and
Education had to design prototypes that could be done at a reasonable cost under exacting quality
standards. Before FISE, both ministries lacked a well-defined design for their basic infrastructure or strict
guidelines for quality standards.

Finally, neither the Ministry of Health nor the Ministry of Education has the necessary expertise for the
massive infrastructure coverage that has been provided by FISE. Without the specialized nature of FISE in
targeting, participatory planning, construction, and maintenance of basic health and education
infrastructure, health and education coverage would undoubtedly be less than it is now.




                                                     - 39 -

Additional Annex 9. Preventive Maintenance Fund (PMF)

The Preventive Maintenance Fund (PMF), one of the four components of FISE's Municipal and
Community Strengthening Program, is an institutional and financial structure with the objective to promote
counterpart funding and commitment from local governments, communities, and sectorial agencies to
co-finance the maintenance of primary school and health post infrastructure. In 1996, FISE (in
coordination with INIFOM) designed the PMF as a way to respond to the continuing deterioration of basic
social infrastructure in Nicaragua, and, in April 1997, started the pilot program in eight municipalities with
IDB and Government funding.

PMF mechanisms. FISE uses different mechanisms to transfer funds for the maintenance of infrastructure
to the municipalities, and also provides different amounts. On the Caribbean coast, municipalities receive
the highest amounts --US$350 for health posts and US$600 for schools--and their funds are transfered
directly by FISE. In the municipalities of the North, Central, and Pacific regions, however, the amount that
FISE transfers depends on the poverty level of the municipality, i.e., extreme (100%), high (90%--US$540
per school, US$315 per health post), medium (80%--US$480 per school, US$280 per health post), and low
(70%--US$420 per school and US$235 per health post). Municipalities in the Atlantic Coast region receive
the maximum amount allowed, regardless of their poverty level. In all municipalities, the mayor and the
financial manager open an account specifically for the PMF into which funds are transferred.

Results to date. Tables 1 and 2 provide some detailed data on the numbers of projects and funding by
different stakeholders. Over the period 1997-2002, FISE contributed about 80 percent and the
communities and the municipal governments about 10 percent each.

                                  Table 1: Participant contributions to PMF
              Number of                                Community           Municipal govt.
                              FISE contribution                                                 Total cost of PMF
               Projects                               contributions         contributions
  Year
                    Health
          Schools             Total amt.     %     Total amt.     %       Total amt.    %     Total amt.        %
                     posts
  1997      374       60     1,938,812.67  67.92%   480,156.93   16.82%   435,484.68 15.26%   2,854,454.28    100.00%
  1998      288       52     1,715,327.66  72.63%   296,110.37   12.54%   350,306.90 14.83%   2,361,744.93    100.00%
  1999      880       181    5,987,174.07  75.48%   940,005.40   11.85% 1,004,629.33 12.67%   7,931,808.80    100.00%
  2000      1030      185    7,177,432.29  79.09%   957,379.45   10.55%   940,410.79 10.36%   9,075,222.53    100.00%
  2001      1735      360   13,464,285.81  83.01% 1,480,218.31    9.13% 1,276,133.41   7.87% 16,220,637.53    100.00%
  2002      1853      259   12,234,553.35  80.37% 1,638,236.11   10.76% 1,350,115.28   8.87% 15,222,904.74    100.00%
TOTAL      6,160     1097   42,517,585.85  79.23% 5,792,106.57   10.79% 5,357,080.39   9.98% 53,666,772.81    100.00%
     Source: CEPRODEL (Center for the Promotion of Local Development) with data from FISE.
     Note: Amounts are in Córdobas, dates are from 1/1/97-12/31/02.

Table 2 shows that the PMF expanded its coverage of municipalities each year, except for the year 2002,
when the number of municipalities with access to the PMF dropped substantially because of a lack of
government funding. The frequency of municipal participation in the PMF is impressive: 12 municipalities
benefited from the PMF at least once, 19 participated twice, 37 benefited three times, 42 participated on
four occasions, 36 benefited on five occasions, and four participated six times--as of the end of 2002, 150
out of the 152 municipalities had participated in the PMF. In total, over the six years, the PMF has
provided funding for the maintenance of 6,160 schools and 1,097 health posts.

Unfortunately, the documentation provided by the municipalities on completed works and expenditures has
so far been unsatisfactory. This is holding up further commitments by FISE to those municipalities, but it
still is an issue requiring urgent attention.




                                                     - 40 -

Table 2: Total disbursements made by FISE vs. total statement of expenses received by FISE from
1/1/97-12/31/02
  Year     Municip.     Number of Projects       Total amt.       Total statement of    Acumulated statement
                                                 Disbursed        expenses received         of expenses
                                                 (Córdobas)           (Córdobas)        received/accumulated
                                                                                           disbursed (%)

                     Schools      Health posts
  1997        53       374             60          1,938,812.67                51,326.56               2.65%
  1998        58       288             52          1,715,327.66             1,427,997.57              40.48%
  1999       110       880            181          5,987,174.07             3,239,858.40              48.95%
  2000       107       1030           185          7,177,432.29             5,613,777.91              61.44%
  2001       111       1735           360         13,464,285.81             5,863,727.28              53.48%
  2002        89      1,853           259         12,234,553.35            14,038,700.31              71.11%
  TOTAL               6,160          1,097        42,517,585.85            30,235,388.03               71.11%

 Source: CEPRODEL with data from FISE


Main Findings of PMF Evaluation

A recent KfW-funded study of the PMF showed some interesting results:

Positive:

l The PMF has played a vital role in building social capital in Nicaragua, finding new methods of social
    intervention, promoting national savings, and stimulating a sense of responsibility of the population
    with regard to their communities and municipalities.
l The PMF has enabled the participation of municipal governments (mayor, financial manager, and
    municipal technical units) and community organizations, as well as improved the image and increased
    the authority of mayors, since the PMF allows them to manage funds and also creates temporary
    employment.

Negative:

l Weak commitment to the PMF on the part of key institutional actors: INIFOM: although it clearly
    understands the role of the PMF, it considers the fund a responsibility of municipal governments;
    Ministry of Health: due to budgetary constraints, the unit and staff in charge of the PMF were
    dismissed, and new staff are not fully committed; in addition, at the central level of MINSA, there is
    little knowledge of the PMF; Ministry of Education: fully understands the workings of the PMF, and
    until 2001 coordinated very well with FISE, but currently claims that with the new management of
    FISE, this coordination is no longer present--for example, the Ministry does not know where FISE
    stands with regard to the PMF providing coverage to non-FISE infrastructure; the General
    Comptroller's Office has no control over the PMF. Overall, it can be said that most institutions
    generally understand the usefulness and importance of the PMF, but no inter-institutional efforts are
    made to improve its implementation.
l Expansion of the PMF to non-FISE health and education infrastructure: In 2002, FISE decided that the
    PMF would provide coverage for all health and education infrastructure--not just that built by FISE.
    This decision, although admirable, could prove to be problematic in the future for municipalities with
    funding and capacity constraints. Moreoever, central goverment authorities do not prioritize the PMF
    in their agendas, and as a result FISE ends up converting itself into the national government
    representative.
l Delays in clearing accounts which, in turn, causes a delay in the next disbursement.




                                                   - 41 -

l Many local actors feel that the designated transfer amounts do not cover the necessary maintenance
  costs.
l Major criticism expressed by local governments related to: weak documentation on disbursement and
  statement of expenditures procedures; insufficient training (for example, outside the municipal
  technical units, 62% of the local actors claimed to not fully understand the norms and procedures of the
  PMF).




                                                  - 42 -

Additional Annex 10. List of Consultancies and Training Financed under Credit 3142

                           Title                          Cost (in US$)  Start date  End date


CONSULTANCIES
Coordinator for consultancies on management,                       50,400      7/1/99    3/1/00
monitoring, and evaluation
Consultancy providing support to FISE                              14,400      7/1/99  6/30/00
Poverty assessment                                                 28,000      7/4/99    7/5/99
FISE Cost-efficiency study                                         10,000      9/6/99 11/15/99
Poverty map study                                                  6,760      7/18/99  9/17/99
Second phase of FISE cost-efficiency study                         28,440    10/18/99  1/25/00
Consultancy for Decentralization Unit of FISE                      62,760      2/1/00  1/31/02
Consultancy for Decentralization Unit of FISE                      62,760     2/15/00  2/16/00
Consultancy on Impact Evaluation of FISE                           6,620      12/6/99  3/30/00
Consultancy on water and sanitation                                10,000      3/1/00 10/13/00
Consultancy for the analysis of census data                        3,200      4/14/00  4/15/00
Consultancy for support of the adaptation of FISE                  39,000      4/1/00  9/30/00
Technical assistance consultancy on Preventive                     8,100       4/1/00  9/30/00
Maintenance Fund
Technical assistance on training                                   9,900       4/1/00  9/30/00
Distributive impact of incentive policies                          15,690     3/10/00  7/31/00
Post-Mitch Poverty Map                                             4,740       2/1/00    3/1/00
Rural sector strategy                                              11,840     3/22/00  6/22/00
Incidence analysis of public spending on education and             16,540    11/22/99  2/28/01
health
Installation and operation of decentralized system, level          47,760      9/1/00  8/31/01
one
Design of rural roads El Tuma, La Dalia, Rancho Grande,          134,460      11/4/00 12/14/01
and Pueblo Nuevo
Support for adaptation of operations of FISE in                    58,500     10/1/00  6/30/01
coordination with other consultancies
Consultant for support of decentralization process                 28,800     10/1/00  9/30/01
Consultant for support of decentralization process                 28,800     10/1/00  9/30/01
Consultancy--Determinants of Infant Mortality in Children          6,800       6/1/00 10/31/00
under Five
Consultancy--Technical assistance in training                      4,950      10/1/00 12/31/00
Consultancy--Technical assistance in training                      4,050       1/2/01    7/1/01
Support in decentralization process in engineering                 18,000     12/4/00    6/3/01
projects
Development of monitoring and evaluation system of                 31,350     5/24/01  7/23/01
FISE' environmental management system
Technical assistance through information exchange                  2,560      10/1/00 12/31/00
between UTMs (Municipal Technical Units) and FISE
Consultancy on Advising Municipalities on                          28,800     10/1/01  9/30/02
Decentralization Process
Consultancy for development of and implementation of               85,370     7/15/02 12/18/02
electronic portal of FISE
Consultancy on micro-enterprise as a potential exit path           7,500     12/28/02  4/30/02

FISE management development systems                                7,720      9/11/02  3/31/03
FISE management information systems                                7,720      9/11/02  3/31/03
FISE management information systems                                7,720      9/11/02  3/31/03
FISE management information systems                                7,720      9/11/02  3/31/03
Design and implementation of system proposed by FISE               12,000      9/1/02 12/31/03

Strategic coordination, monitoring, and institutional              18,000     10/1/02 12/31/03
strengthening of INEC (National Statistics Institute)
Consultancy on updated poverty report                              6,500      11/5/02 12/31/03
TRAINING
Workshop seminar on management of project cycle                    2,870       8 days
Post-graduate course on rural potable water and                    31,020      8/3/02  9/28/02
sanitation
Fifth Meeting with environmental units of the transport            2,340       5 days
sector
Workshop for the preparation of municipal investments in           1,110       7/4/02    7/5/02
various departments of Nicaragua
Seminar on "how to evaluate the impact of development              1,450       3 days
projects"
Introduction course on ARCIMS (Internet MAP server)                2,680       7/8/02  7/12/02
Workshop seminar on municipal and community                        1,570       5/6/02  5/10/02
strengthening program 2002-2004
Certificate in management and evaluation of                        22,500   3 months
environmental impact on infrastructure and social
EQUIPAMENTO




                                                                         - 43 -

- 44 -

