Report No. PID6831
Project Name                      Nicaragua-Third Social Investment (+)
Emergency Fund
Region                            Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                            Social
Project ID                        NIPE40197
Borrower                          The Republic of Nicaragua
Implementing Agency               Fondo de Inversion Social de Emergencia (FISE)
Colonia Altamira
Managua, Nicaragua
Phone: (505) 278-1664-9
Fax: (505) 278-1673
Date this PID Prepared            January 28, 1998
Appraisal Date                    May 12-17, 1998 (tentative)
Project Board Date                June 23, 1998 (tentative)
1. Country and Sector Background: The greatest challenge facing Nicaragua is
reducing the extent and depth of its poverty and improving its social
indicators. It is estimated that half of the population falls below the
poverty line and one-fifth below the extreme poverty line. Poverty is much
higher in rural areas; three of four rural inhabitants are poor. While slowly
improving, social indicators continue to be among the lowest in the region:
life expectancy is low (66), and infant mortality (53 per thousand live
births) and fertility rates (5 children per women) are the highest in the
region. At current growth rates (3 percent per year), the population doubles
every 23 years. Illiteracy rates remain high at 23 percent (41 percent in
rural areas); average schooling is only 4.5 years and the quality of the
education is low. Water coverage is 64 percent (30 percent in rural areas)
and lack of clean water is a major factor explaining diarrhea as the main
cause of infant mortality. Sanitation coverage is also low at 18 percent in
rural zones.
Although a large share of government resources are allocated to the social
sectors, absolute per capita expenditures in education and health are still
well below regional averages. Within these constraints, the Government's
social sector policy aims to: (i) expand access to social services (basic
education, health, and water); (ii) improve efficiency and accountability (at
the national and local levels) in the delivery of social services; and (iii)
focus on the most vulnerable groups that suffer from malnutrition and extreme
poverty. A redefinition of the role of Government and the decentralization of
services are central to this strategy.
2. Project Objectives. The proposed project would help the Government of
Nicaragua sustain its poverty alleviation efforts in the following areas: (i)
resource mobilization to reach the poor (both technical and financial); (ii)
increased efficiency in the allocation of resources (targeting and investment
sustainability); (iii) expanding access to social infrastructure and services
(primarily basic education, health, and water supply and sanitation); (iii)
increased capacity development at the local level (through beneficiary
participation, training and the decentralization of technical and financial



resources to the municipal level).
3. Project Description: The project, whose total cost is estimated at US$120
million, would be implemented over a three-year period starting in late-1998,
and would have the following components: (a) Investment Subprojects FISE's
menu of eligible subprojects. Specific activities would include: (i)
Education: Infrastructure and furniture for pre-schools, primary schools,
secondary institutes and vocational centers. Projects for mini-classroom
libraries, other teaching materials, training and school orchards; (ii)
Health: Infrastructure, furniture, equipment and basic materials for health
posts and centers, as well as latrines, management and disposal of solid
waste, and basic health prevention training; (iii) Water Supply and Sewerage:
Infrastructure in rural areas with concentrated populations would be improved
and expanded; and a special effort would be made to increase the number of
subprojects in rural areas with dispersed populations; and (iv) Social
Projects: These activities would include construction of and equipment for
child-care centers, shelters and homes for the elderly, family gardens and
maternity homes; (b) Capacity Building Training activities for local
governments and beneficiaries, as well as pilot projects in micro-regional
municipal planning, special projects for indigenous people, and programs
specifically targeted at women. It would also include training seminars and
workshops with NGOs and local contractors; and seminars for the transfer of
FISE's know-how to staff from other government agencies; (c) LSMS, Monitoring
and Evaluation (i) Analysis of 1998 LSMS; updating of FISE's poverty map; and
analysis of the 1998 FISE Impact Evaluation; (ii) Review of FISE's project
appraisal, monitoring and evaluation systems; (iii) LSMS and FISE impact
evaluation data collection in 2001; and focused studies under MECOVI, a
regional initiative to generate accurate information regarding living
conditions and poverty in Latin America (sponsored by the Bank, IDB and
ECLAC); (d)) Project Management Operating cost of FISE, as well as staff
training activities, improvement of the MIS system and office technology
equipment, and external auditing (both financial and concurrent).
4. Project Financing. Project costs are estimated at US$120 million. Bank
financing would be for US$30 million, the central government and co-financiers
would finance the remaining US$90 million.
5.  Project Implementation.    The executing agency will be FISE, and the
subprojects would be contracted through private contractors (including NGOs).
6. Project Sustainability. Counterpart contributions would be expected from
the relevant line ministries and final beneficiaries for routine maintenance,
labor and materials, respectively. This will be augmented with FISE's
recently-established Maintenance Facility, which is providing for the cost of
maintenance of primary schools and health posts in a gradually increasing
number of municipalities. The municipalities themselves would also be
expected to contribute, and this is being pursued under the new municipal
micro-planning, participation and maintenance studies. In the case of water
supply and sanitation works, final beneficiaries would be responsible for
operation and maintenance of completed systems, and user committees would
charge user fees.
7. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. Quality. The
main lesson learned is that project efficiency (subproject approval,
execution, and disbursement rates) has so far not been sufficiently linked to
-2 -



project effectiveness (increased community participation, subproject quality,
sustainability of benefits, and social impact). Community organization and
training in infrastructure use and maintenance must accompany infrastructure
subprojects; informed community participation throughout the subproject cycle,
particularly in the selection of choices and in making key decisions, largely
contributes to increased sustainability of subproject benefits; and the
participation of all of FISE's partners (ministries, government agencies,
municipalities, communities, NGOs, and donors) continues to be essential to
achieve sustainability.
8.  Poverty Category.    The proposed project is included in the Program of
Targeted Interventions.
9. Environmental Aspects. The proposed project would have no significant
environmental risks, and has been given a B rating. Under the ongoing
project, FISE has already taken a number of important initiatives to consider
environmental issues as an integral part of its decision making process. It
has created and staffed an environmental unit and developed procedures to
incorporate environmental unit selection criteria. Under the proposed
project, it would conduct training and sensitization programs and develop new
environmental menu items that would be eligible for FISE financing. In
addition, the community organization and training programs would include
environmental sensitization components.
10. Program Objective Categories. The primary program objectives is Poverty
Reduction (PA).
Contact Point                    Lic. Carlos Noguera
Director Ejecutivo
FISE
Colonia Altamira
Managua, Nicaragua
Tel.    (505) 278-1664-9
Fax: (505) 278-1673
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 11, 1998.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID).
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-4-



