Page  1
April 3, 2002
Mr. Eduardo Montealegre Rivas
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Managua Nicaragua
Re:
Japan Social Development Fund Capacity Building Grant
for the Community Development Innovation Fund
Grant No. TF026597
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the Association) to indicate 
the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the Japan Social 
Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding seven hundred sixty-five thousand 
five hundred U.S. Dollars (US$765,500 ) (the Grant) to the Republic of Nicaragua (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the 
Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will 
become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Suzana N. de Campos Abbott
Acting Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By:
Eduardo Montealegre R.
Minister of Finance
Date:
May 24, 2002
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
Page  2
1.1. The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to promote and support the participation of 
poor communities and vulnerable groups in sustainable development activities and to strengthen the 
capacity of civil society through a community development innovation fund.
1.2. The Project in complementary to the Development Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) entered 
into by the Bank and the Recipient, pertaining to the Third Social Investment Fund Project, Credit No. 
3142-NI, dated November 13, 1998 (as such Credit Agreement have been and/or may be amended 
from time to time).
1.3. The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Recipient 
and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives (the Activities).
Part A
:
Design and preparation of: (i) community capacity building activities, including
 inter alia
,
training of selected groups and organizations in the areas of project management and conflict 
resolution; and (ii) “learning by doing” mini-projects for the capacity building and organization of the 
community for future development projects (these Activities are estimated to cost US$170,000 
equivalent).
Part B
:
Strengthening of the Recipient’s capacity to supervise project implementation (these Activities 
are estimated to cost US$45,000 equivalent).
Part C
:
Design and preparation of innovative small-scale projects, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) social and 
community service projects; (ii) community-executed civil works; and (iii) project research for groups 
with special needs (these Activities are estimated to cost US$512,500 equivalent).
Part D
:
Strengthening of the Recipient’s capacity to prepare and issue: (i) final project evaluation; and 
(ii) audit reports through the provision of independent consulting firms (these Activities are estimated 
to costs US$38,000 equivalent).
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1. The Recipient through its Social Investment Fund (FISE) shall: (a) carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds 
of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with 
the Association's representatives on the progress and results of the Project; and (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable the Association to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related 
to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Association shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the results and impact of the Project.
Page  3
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works and consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed 
by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2. The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the Project are at all times operated and 
maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities 
are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Association on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project:
Amount of
% of
the Grant Allocated
Expenditures to
Category
(in U.S. Dollars)
be Financed
(1)
Subgrants for
468,000
85%
Consultant
services
(2)
Training
102,000
100%
(3)
Subgrants for
187,500
85%
Works
(4)
Audits
8,000
100%
TOTAL
765,500
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “training” means the non-consultant expenditures 
incurred by the Recipient in connection with the carrying out of the training activities including travel 
costs and per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of facilities and equipment, and training materials.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Association; (ii) on account 
of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of 
Page  4
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Association or for services 
supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such 
payment, to the Association’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after April 30, 2004, or such later 
date that the Association shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date); and 
(c)
if, in the Association’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in 
the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the 
Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant 
then allocated to another item which, in the Association’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified 
by the Association.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by its 
minister of Finance or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) 
accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Association shall reasonably 
request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications 
shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy the Association that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account 
and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Project.  The Association shall pay the 
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing 
less than US$100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$25,000  
equivalent; and (c)
 
works, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Page  5
Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts 
are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1. The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Association has made a loan with the 
guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) or any development credit agreement with the 
Association shall have been suspended.
6.2. The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the 
Association, within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Works
Page  6
Part A
:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by IBRD in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 
of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$55,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed US$175,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including 
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest evaluated price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully.
2.
Direct Contracting
Works for activities under paragraph 1.2 A (ii) (for “learning by doing” mini-projects) 
estimated to cost less than US$2,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to contracts costing more than $55,000 each, the following procedures shall 
Page  7
apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any contractor or the execution of any contract, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received, a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to all 
contracts.
Section II
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by IBRD in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality based Selection
(a)
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.2 through 3.4 thereof applicable to quality based selection 
of consultants.
(b)
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of 
consultants for the Activities under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, estimated to 
cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  8
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms for the Activities under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for the Activities 
under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
less than the equivalent of US$100,000, the terms of reference of the consulting firms shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants for the 
Activities under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of US$25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Page  9
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of
 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$50,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 
4
of
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  10
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association 
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to 
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible 
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
