Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3142-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Social Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 13, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3142-NI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 13, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by agreement dated January 29, 1998, (the IDB Loan Agreement), the Inter 
American Development Bank (IDB) has agreed to make a loan (the IDB Loan) to the 
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $50,000,000 to assist in 
financing Subprojects and technical assistance additional to that included in the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the IDB Loan Agreement;
(C)
by agreement dated February 16, 1998 (the OPEC Loan Agreement), the 
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has agreed to make a loan (the 
OPEC Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of $4,000,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the OPEC Loan 
Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Kingdom of Sweden (Sweden) a 
grant (the Swedish Grant) in an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
Swedish Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Sweden;
Page  2
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau 
(KFW) a grant (the KFW Grant) in an amount equivalent to DM28,000,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KFW 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and KFW;
(F)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Government of Switzerland 
(Switzerland) a grant (the Swiss Grant) in an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the Swiss Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland; 
and 
(G)
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Fiscal Year” means SIF’s (as defined below) fiscal year which commences 
on July 1;
(b)
“Indicators” means the performance indicators set forth in a supplemental 
letter of even date herewith;
(c)
“La Gaceta” means the Borrower’s official gazette;
(d)
“INEC” means the Borrower’s Institute for Statistics and Census;
(e)
“INEC Participation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SIF pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such 
agreement;
(f)
“Municipalities Targeting Plan” means the plan contained in the 
Page  3
Borrower's document entitled Distribución de Recursos 1998-2001 (Distribution of 
Resources 1998-2001);
(g)
“National Assembly” means the Borrower’s legislative branch;
(h)
“Nicaraguan Córdobas” means the currency of the Borrower;
(i)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(j)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan furnished to the Association 
on October 7, 1998 which includes a timetable for implementation of the Project and an 
indigenous development plan and gender strategy for the Project;
(k)
“Requesting Entity” means a governmental or non-governmental entity, a 
cooperative or community with legal personality, which meets the eligibility criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual and which proposes to carry out or is carrying out 
a Subproject (as defined below);
(l)
“SIF” means Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia, the Borrower’s 
social investment fund established as a public decentralized entity with juridical 
personality pursuant to Decree No. 59-90;
(m)
“SIF Decree” means the Borrower’s decree No. 59-90 dated November 21, 
1990 and published in La Gaceta on December 13, 1990, as amended by decree No. 43-94 
dated October 28, 1994 extending SIF’s duration to December 13, 1997 and decree No. 
57-98 dated August 28, 1998 and published in La Gaceta on September 4, 1998 extending 
SIF’s duration to December 31, 2004;
(n)
“SIF Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and SIF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such agreement;
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
“Subproject” means a social infrastructure subproject, an economic 
infrastructure subproject, a social services subproject or such other subproject as 
the Association may agree, which is eligible for financing by SIF in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual; and
(q)
“Subproject Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between SIF 
and a Requesting Entity pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subproject Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to SIF. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-two million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR32,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
Page  4
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2009 and ending November 1, 2038. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
Page  5
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. Section 
2.09. The Executive President of SIF, or any person he or she may designate in 
writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
SIF, under the provisions of the SIF Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out the Project, 
with the assistance of INEC in respect of the collection of data under Parts C.1 (a) 
and C.3 thereof, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, economic, and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to SIF under 
a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SIF, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall include 
SIF’s obligation to carry out of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with SIF and INEC, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall include 
the Borrower’s, SIF’s and INEC’s respective obligations in the carrying out of Parts 
C.1 (a) and C.3 of the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause SIF to enter into an agreement with each 
Requesting Entity, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, which shall include the Requesting Entity’s obligations to carry out the 
Subproject.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the SIF Subsidiary Agreement and the INEC Participation Agreement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SIF Subsidiary 
Agreement or the INEC Participation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall cause SIF to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
by no later than August 31 of each year, until completion of the Project, 
furnish to the Association for its approval, an annual operating plan for the 
implementation of the Project during the upcoming twelve months, such plan to 
comprise: (i) the main activities to be carried out under the Project during the 
respective year; (ii) the objectives, and expected results or outputs of such 
activities; (iii) the corresponding cost estimates and budgets, including the 
counterpart funds; (iv) the proposed revisions to the Indicators, and the Project 
Implementation Plan, if applicable; and (v) the relevant institutional arrangements 
and responsibilities; 
Page  6
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
furnish to the Association on or about January 31 and July 31 each year, commencing 
July 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;
(d)
review with the Association: 
(i)
by March 30 and September 30 each year, or such later dates as the 
Association 
shall request, the reports referred to in subparagraph (c) 
of this Section; 
and
(ii)
by September 30, 2000 in addition to the reports referred to in 
paragraph (c) 
of this Section: (A)
the targeting of 
Subprojects; (B)
the quality and impact 
of Subprojects; (C)
the 
administrative soundness and financial operations of 
SIF; (D) the 
progress made in the decentralization of the identification and 
supervision functions of Subprojects to the municipalities; (E) the 
implementation of SIF’s environmental assessment procedures; and (F) the 
operation of the fund established by SIF for the financing of 
costs related to 
the maintenance of subprojects financed by SIF 
(including Subprojects); and 
(e)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause SIF to carry out the Project in 
accordance with:
(a)
an operational manual satisfactory to the Association, said manual to 
include, inter alia: 
(i)
the criteria and procedures for promotion, identification, 
approval, 
implementation and monitoring of Subprojects; 
(ii)
the procedures for preparation and implementation of Subprojects 
involving 
indigenous communities and women; 
(iii)
the procedures for the management of decentralization strategies; 
and 
(iv)
the social consideration requirements for the processing of 
Subprojects; and 
(b)
the Project Implementation Plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, without limitation to the provisions of 
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement:
(a)
include in its annual budget proposals submitted to the National 
Assembly:
(i)
the following minimum amounts as funding for the administrative 
costs of SIF 
and the maintenance fund referred to in Section 3.03 (d) 
(ii) (F) of this 
Agreement: (A) $4,900,000 equivalent in 
calendar year 1999; (B) $5,100,000 
equivalent in calendar 
year 2000; (C) $5,400,000 equivalent in calendar year 
2001; and (D)
$5,600,000 equivalent in calendar year 2002; and 
(ii)
funding to cover the operating costs of the schools and health 
Subprojects; 
(b)
by no later than the first day of each quarter, deposit in the account 
Page  7
referred to in paragraph (c) below the counterpart funds required for the 
implementation of the Project in the following three months; and 
(c)
cause SIF to
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the 
Project, an account in Nicaraguan Córdobas in a commercial bank, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, to manage the funds referred to in the 
preceding paragraphs of this Section.
Section 3.06. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by SIF.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause SIF to:
(a)
by no later than June 30, 1999 furnish to the Association for its 
comments the results of the review referred to in Part C.2 of the Project, and the 
recommended changes to SIF’s policies and procedures; its performance indicators 
(including the Indicators) and the methodology for the economic evaluation of 
Subprojects; and
(b)
thereafter, take all measures required to make the changes referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, based on the recommendations of the review, and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and (b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause SIF to establish and maintain a 
financing management system including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause SIF to: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
SIF to: 
Page  8
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without  limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause:
(a)
SIF’s operations to be audited during each quarter of execution of Part A 
of the Project, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, such audits to 
include a financial review of Subprojects and a physical inspection of works in the 
field; and
(b)
SIF to furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than ninety days after the end of each such quarter, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause SIF:
(a)
to maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provisions 
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts 
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, managerial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers;
(c)
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) above, to maintain 
an executive president and operational directors and managers whose experience and 
qualifications shall be at all times acceptable to the Association, and to obtain the 
Association’s approval with respect to the replacement of such executive president and 
operational directors and managers prior to any such replacement; and
(d)
at all times to operate and to maintain its offices, equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, economic and 
environmental practices. 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  9
(a)
the SIF Decree or the Operational Manual shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in 
the opinion of the Association, the ability of SIF to perform any of its obligations 
under the SIF Subsidiary Agreement or the INEC Participation Agreement or under any 
Subproject Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower shall have failed to designate or establish a successor to 
SIF, satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of carrying out of the Project in 
the event that SIF shall cease to exist before completion of the Project;
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IDB Loan or 
the Swedish Grant or the KFW Grant or the OPEC Loan 
or the Swiss Grant 
or any loan or grant made to the Borrower for 
the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to 
the terms thereof; or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreements; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) in respect of the SIF Decree, or the 
event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a) in respect of the Operational Manual 
shall occur  and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions; 
(a)
the Borrower shall have made a deposit of $1,200,000 equivalent in the 
account referred to in Section 3.05 (c) of this Agreement;
(b)
the SIF Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower 
and SIF; and
(c)
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Association and adopted 
by SIF.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the SIF Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and SIF in accordance with its terms. Section 7.03. The date February 18, 
Page  10
1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Telex:
2410
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Francisco Aguiree Sacasa 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Zafer Ecevit 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  11
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants for Subprojects
27,550,000
100% of the
amount of the Grant
for a Subproject
for which a
Subproject Agreement
has been signed on
or before June 30,
2002
(2)
Goods under Part D.3
   980,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures of other
items procured
locally 
(3)
Consultants’ Services
    )
100%
    )
(a)
for Parts B and D of
    420,000)
the Project
    )
  
    )
(b)
for Part C of the 
  1,390,000)
Project
(4)
Training
    )
100%
    )
(a)
under Part B
    420,000)
of the Project
           )
    )
(b)
under Part D.2
    100,000)
of the Project
    )
(5)
Works under Part D.1
    140,000
100%
of the Project
(6)
Auditor Services 
 
    260,000
100% 
(7)
Unallocated
  1,640,000
TOTAL
        32,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and (c)
the term “Training” means the cost of tuition fees, travel and per-diem of trainers 
and participants, training materials, rental of facilities and equipment and other 
costs related to training, including workshops, to be carried out under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR3,290,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after March 1, 1998.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
Page  12
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
in respect of which prior review is not required in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, Part D.2, and Section II, Part D.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower’s poverty alleviation 
efforts in the following areas: (a) provision of small-scale infrastructure mainly in 
health, education, water supply and sanitation; (b) targeting of the poorest 
communities; and (c) strengthening of municipal management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
Financing and carrying out of Subprojects.
Part B:
Municipalities and Community Strengthening
Provision of technical assistance and training, including seminars and 
workshops, of staff of municipalities, regional governments of the Atlantic coast, 
ministries and other selected agencies, non-governmental organizations, SIF’s staff, 
contractors and indigenous and other communities on micro-regional and/or municipal 
planning, special Subprojects for indigenous peoples, and programs targeted at women.
Part C:
Living Standards Measurement Survey, Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
(a)
Analysis of INEC’s 1998 living standards measurement survey with a view 
to improve the targeting of SIF’s financing of Subprojects; (b) updating of the 
poverty map of the Borrower’s territory; and (c) analysis of the evaluation of the 
impact of SIF’s subprojects. 
2.
Review of SIF’s appraisal, monitoring, performance and evaluation systems. 
3.
Collection of data for, and analysis of, a new living standards measurement 
survey and impact evaluation, as well as related training to INEC’s staff in the 
implementation of such survey.
Part D:
SIF’s Strengthening 
1.
Construction and/or renovation of SIF’s offices. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance to SIF, and training of SIF’s staff in the 
evaluation and monitoring of water supply and sanitation Subprojects, and the 
development and operation of management information systems. 3.
Provision of 
computer and other equipment, office furniture and vehicles for SIF. 4.
Provision of 
auditing services for purposes of carrying out audits under Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of 
this Agreement. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: 
Page  13
(a)
the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996 and in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth 
in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and 
(b)
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to the medical equipment to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower,
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract up to 
an aggregate not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent may; and 
(b)
except as otherwise provided in Part C.3 hereof, works shall, be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works under the provisions of this 
paragraph, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the 
Association. 
2.
National Shopping  
Goods, (other than those included under contracts awarded under Part C.3 
hereof), estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works for Part D.1 of the Project and for Subprojects estimated to cost less 
than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$8,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded 
on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
4.
Direct Contracting Works for Subprojects to be carried out in remote areas, 
Page  14
costing $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and not exceeding $3,700,000 
equivalent in the aggregate may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: 
(i)
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$25,000 or more; 
(ii)
the first two contracts for works, irrespective of value, procured 
pursuant to 
the provisions of Part C.1 hereof; and 
(iii)
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for works procured pursuant to 
the provisions of Part C.3 hereof: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received; and 
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
Page  15
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for external financial audits, for training 
under Part B of the Project, and for surveys, reviews and studies under Part C of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the surveys under Part C.1 and C.3 of the Project and for the 
monitoring and evaluation review under Part C.2 of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for the development of management information systems under Part D.2 of 
the Project and for surveys, reviews and studies under Part C of the Project, which 
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance under Part D.2 of the Project and for tasks 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Association’s prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
Page  16
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  17
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
