            Document of
          The World Bank




                                     Report No: 32488

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (SCL-44250)

               ON A

        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

              TO THE

             ROMANIA

              FOR A

ROMANIA CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT




            June 21, 2005

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective March 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Lei
                                          1 Leu = US$ 0.000037
                                         US$ 1 = 27,000 Lei

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS  Country Assistance Strategy
ECA  Europe and Central Asia
GOR  Government of Romania
LIL  Learning and Innovation Loan
MOPF Ministry of Public Finance
PIU  Project Implementation Unit
WMF World Monuments Fund




                                Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                               Country Director    Anand K. Seth
                                Sector Manager     Benoit Paul Blarel
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Thomas A. Blinkhorn

                                          ROMANIA
                     ROMANIA CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            22

Project ID: P058284                                                  Project Name: ROMANIA CULTURAL HERITAGE
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Thomas Blinkhorn                                        TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ROMANIA CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT L/C/TF Number: SCL-44250
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (94%); Central government administration
                            (6%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/19/1998                                     Effective: 02/11/1999                02/11/1999
     Appraisal: 08/20/1998                                         MTR: 04/16/2001                  10/12/2002
      Approval: 12/23/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA/MINISTRY OF CULTURE
                      Other Partners:      World Monuments Fund; Local governments;communities

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Anand Seth                                     Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:                 Benoit Paul Blarel                             Kevin Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR:             Thomas A. Blinkhorn                            Thomas A. Blinkhorn
ICR Primary Author:             Thomas A. Blinkhorn


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to assist the Borrower in: (i) preserving priority cultural heritage sites and
objects; and (ii) developing a new national partnership strategy for the cultural sector by testing different
approaches with a view to improving its overall management. The objective needs to be considered against
the backdrop of Romania's economic and social milieu in the late 1990s, almost 10 years after the country
had secured independence from Communist dictatorship. A seriously constrained fiscal situation, with
competing demands for scarce public resources, dominated the national agenda. Government officials were
increasingly concerned about the deteriorating state of the country's rich cultural patrimony. Cultural
assets were in serious disrepair due to lack of public financing and years of neglect. In the circumstances,
the Government decided that the historic central role of the state in cultural heritage management needed to
be supplanted with new partnership models involving the private sector, international donors, organized
community groups and civil society at large. To help formulate a new strategy in this regard, Government
requested Bank assistance through a Learning and Innovation Loan to test different approaches.

The overall objective remains appropriate. It reflected the importance that Romania attaches to cultural
heritage as an essential ingredient for preserving unique national identity during a period of dramatic social
and economic transition. The objective also supported a key goal of the Bank's country assistance strategy
at the time: To help Romania rationalize the role of the state by strengthening public institutions, fostering
partners in the private sector and building local capacity through community mobilization and competitive
tendering processes. The flexibility of the Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was, in retrospect, well
suited to help achieve the overarching objective. The project's co-financing partner, the World Monuments
Fund (WMF), participated for the first time in a Bank lending operation, contributing initially $600,000
and eventually much more in grant funding; its involvement helped attract other European partners during
the project's life thus providing greater international recognition of, and support for, Romania's patrimony.
Community mobilization at historic Saxon village pilot sites in Transylvania and elsewhere has produced
significant income-generating opportunities for some of the country's poor, ethnically-diverse areas through
revival of cultural-based tourism. Public institutions at local and national levels have been strengthened
through the project's requirements for transparency and accountability in procurement and financial
management of project-related activities. The project has also complemented other Bank and donor support
for Romania through rural development and social investment fund initiatives.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were not revised. At Government request, the Loan Agreement was amended
six times to clarify the project description, extend project scope within the original objectives and reallocate
Loan proceeds, in light of implementation experience; operating costs were added to categories eligible for
financing. The amendments included two extensions of the original Closing Date, December 31, 2002, for
one-year periods each, to December 31, 2004.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following components:

    (a) Brancusi Sculptural Ensemble (US$3.7 million total cost, appraisal estimate). This component
    helped to restore and refurbish one of Romania's most revered artistic complexes, designed by the
    internationally acclaimed Romanian sculptor Constantin Brancusi, who was born near the Tirgu Jiu
    complex site, which is northwest of Bucharest, the capital city. The investment, supported financially
    and with technical assistance by the World Monuments Fund, involved highly specialized restoration
    activities, including renovation of the Endless Column, Gate of the Kiss, Alley of the Stools, Table of



                                                      - 2 -

    Silence as well as site management planning and landscaping. International competitive bidding for
    restoration work on the Endless Column resulted in savings of about US$1.0 million compared to the
    appraisal estimate.

    (b) Brancovan Palaces ($1.8 million). The project helped complete restoration of two 18th century
    Brancovan palaces: one at Mogosoaia, involving entrance hall and interior renovation, landscaping,
    reconstruction of an historic greenhouse, completion of a nearby cultural center along with preparation
    of a site development plan; the second at Potlogi, involving emergency repairs to the roof, gutters,
    windows to prevent further deterioration. Both palaces are located a relatively short distance from
    Bucharest and are envisioned as part of a future historic and cultural tourism itinerary. The Mogosoaia
    complex has become a dynamic center for cultural events of all kinds; its fees now cover most of the
    facility's annual operating costs.

    (c) Transylvania Saxon Villages (US$0.4 million). This component tested pilot efforts in selected
    historic villages in Transylvania to determine options for sustaining cultural heritage preservation and
    promoting social and inter-cultural cohesion through new income-generating opportunities arising from
    tourism, infrastructure improvements, craft development and related activities. Social assessments and
    community impact studies were conducted before and during project implementation to help ensure an
    optimum degree of community consultation and decision making. The area has seen significant
    increases in cultural tourism and has attracted technical and financial support from government and
    non-governmental agencies in the United Kingdom, Germany, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Denmark.

    (d) Institutional Strengthening (US$1.0 million). Support was provided for (i) capacity building in the
    new project implementation unit in the Ministry of Culture, (ii) formulation of an improved, long-term
    national cultural heritage partnership strategy which, among other things, included legislative reforms
    and implementation of a computerized national cultural heritage inventory.

3.4 Revised Components:
    At Government request, the Bank agreed to modify the original project description to include
    additional priority restoration works consistent with the project objective and for which feasibility
    studies and initial approvals had already been secured. These additional works were not included
    originally because it was felt at the time that they could not be completed satisfactorily within LIL
    financing parameters. As it turned out, work on the major project component, the Brancusi ensemble,
    was completed at significantly reduced cost (about US$1.0 million) thanks to international competitive
    bidding. These savings helped to finance the additional priority activities along with the necessary
    financial Government contribution. The additional activities included historic structures involving a
    total estimated cost of US$1.5 million: Miclauseni Castle (Iasi county), Sighisoara Blacksmith Tower
    (Mures county), Sibiu House of Arts (Sibiu county), Calnic Tower (Alba county), Tisa wooden church
    (Hunedoara county) and Sacalu wooden church (Mures county). Some additional financing was also
    provided for projects in the Saxon villages and for elaboration of the national inventory. Again at
    Government request, the project closing date was extended twice, to December 31, 2004, to enable
    satisfactory completion of project works (both original and new activities) that had already been
    initiated or were underway at the time of the original closing date. Delays were occasioned by a variety
    of factors including additional time required for internal government review and approvals, formulation
    and approval of the Brancusi Endless Column and landscaping design by the World Monuments Fund
    and the Bank. For example, early in the project execution process, disagreement emerged within the
    cultural restoration community, Romanian and international, about the precise nature of the
    deterioration of the Brancusi Endless Column and appropriate strategies for addressing that
    deterioration. The World Monuments Fund assembled a team of Romanian-international specialists at


                                                      - 3 -

    its (WMF) expense to review all analyses and formulate an agreed restoration strategy/program. This
    took much more time than was originally envisioned. In addition, changes in management and staffing
    in the project implementation unit as well as changes in key government ministries following a national
    election resulted in implementation delays.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    Quality at entry is rated marginally satisfactory. There were a number of excellent elements in the
    original design, but other parts could have been strengthened while still others required more detailed
    professional examination.

    The project objective was consistent with the Government's development agenda and the Bank's
    country assistance strategy. The project design benefited significantly from close collaboration with
    other organizations experienced in cultural preservation such as the World Monuments Fund and the
    Council of Europe. The project design and institutional configuration also drew on lessons learned from
    other Bank-financed cultural heritage activities in nearby countries ­ i.e. the Institutional Development
    Fund grant for Vilnius, Lithuania; preparation of the Georgia Cultural Heritage project. The Bank's
    Quality Assessment Group did not assess the project's quality at entry.

    The project appraisal document realistically highlighted the significant risks facing the project. These
    included the pressures of an economy in transition and the understandable tendency of government
    officials to focus primarily on crisis management rather than longer term improvement of management
    of cultural patrimony; inexperience in a largely state-controlled society with a Bank operation in a new
    sector (the Romania culture project was one of the first in the ECA region) that aimed to encourage
    new private sector partnership opportunities; open consultation at the community level on public policy
    matters relating to cultural heritage preservation. The appraisal document also flagged, again
    realistically, potential controversial aspects regarding the specialized technical assistance relating to
    materials to be used in renovating components of the Brancusi sculptural ensemble as well as
    potentially sensitive social and community issues involved in attempting to foster greater cohesion in
    the ethnically diverse Saxon villages.

    Project design could have been stronger in certain aspects. First, more attention could have been paid
    to appropriate mechanisms needed to galvanize broad-based community decision making in the pilot
    Saxon villages and to best options for transferring funding effectively for restoration and
    income-generating activities in those villages. This omission resulted in inordinate delays and
    stop-start implementation practices. The four year projection for implementation also proved to be
    unrealistic, especially given the pilot nature of the operation and the fact that it was a new sector ­ for
    the Bank and Government. However, it should be noted that the implementation was also affected
    adversely by the relatively rapid turnover of managers and staff in the project implementation unit of
    the Ministry of Culture (4 project managers during the life of the project). The plan for the monitoring
    and evaluation component was inadequately articulated, resulting in a draft by an international
    consultant that was less than satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the project objective is rated satisfactory. With respect to (i) the preservation of priority
cultural heritage sites and objects, this has been realized through: (a) completion of all agreed project
activities at the Brancusi Ensemble at Tirgu Jiu, main project component, carried out in collaboration with
government (national and local specialists) as well as international experts retained by the World



                                                       - 4 -

Monuments Fund, project co-financing agency; (b) restoration of the Mogosoaia Brancovan Palace outside
Bucharest and completion of work to prevent further damage to the historic palace at Potlogi; and (c)
restoration and rehabilitation of historic churches and community structures in the Saxon villages of
Mosna, Biertan and Viscri in Transylvania. With respect to (ii) the development of a new national
partnership strategy for the cultural sector through the testing of different approaches with a view to
improving overall management, this has been achieved in the following ways: (a) key elements of an
improved national cultural heritage strategy are in place, including two new laws passed in 2000 regulating
management of cultural assets; in addition, (b) a new national cultural inventory, using digital data and
customized software, is well underway with assistance from the project. The inventory is another critical
element in the overall national strategy and will help enhance overall management of the national
patrimony. Based on experience gained through work at the various project sites, carried out in
collaboration with local, national and international partners, the Government, particularly the Ministries of
Culture and Finance, now appear committed to testing different partnership approaches, including
introduction of new user fees, to the preservation of priority cultural sites and assets. This should also help
improve overall management in a more sustainable manner.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Brancusi Sculptural Ensemble. This component is rated Satisfactory. Despite unexpected delays due to
internal Government approval of various project designs and a protracted dispute between the Government
and the main Romanian contractor over the total cost for refurbishing the Endless Column, the output of
this component has been satisfactory, and the work was completed in less than one year. Restoration work
on the Column and the stone sculptures (Gate of the Kiss, Table of Silence and Alley of Heroes) has been
completed to top international standards through the work of local and international specialists and the
close collaboration of the World Monuments Fund. Extensive landscaping work has been done and older
concrete walkways have been replaced with a softer stone material used in many of Europe's most famous
parks and memorial sites; the stone material needs time to set properly and this is covered under the
landscaping contract's guarantee period. The entire effort related to the Brancusi ensemble has attracted
additional international support for construction of a visitor's center and museum. Tourism is increasing.

Brancovan Palaces. This component is rated Satisfactory. All restoration work has been completed
satisfactorily at the Mogosoaia palace complex outside Bucharest. Project interventions included:
restoration of paintings and doors; reconstruction of an 18th century greenhouse; renovation of adjacent
park area with stone carvings, hedges, various plantings; sewerage works; endowments for the palace's
Villa Elschingen, and a conference center. The palace ensemble and park are now highly valued by the
local and international communities who increasingly visit the site and book a variety of cultural and social
performances there, as reported by the ensemble management; children from the surrounding area
participate regularly in a variety of art and cultural activities sponsored by educational institutes and the
Palace administrators. The international diplomatic community in Bucharest also uses the ensemble more
frequently for special exhibits, dinners and presentations. Facilities are now almost fully booked for a
variety of cultural events, art shows and other activities. Fees charged for these events now cover most of
the center's annual operating costs. Emergency repair works at the nearby Potlogi palace have also been
completed satisfactorily. The interventions included a new roof, rain gutters, windows and floors. These
emergency measures have not only stopped further deterioration of this historic ensemble but have
increased the possibility of its becoming an important community and tourism destination along the lines of
Mogosoaia.

Saxon Villages. This component is rated Satisfactory. Although one of the four original pilot villages,
Cincu, had to be dropped from the program because of inadequate project plans, all works at the other
villages ­ Viscri, Biertan and Mosna ­ have been completed fully satisfactorily. These works included



                                                       - 5 -

repairs to historic churches and community centers as well as help for village museums. In Viscri, the
project financed emergency repairs of the fortified Saxon church (roof, drains), a Saxon museum and an
information center. In Mosna, emergency interventions were completed on the Saxon church tower and
surrounding fortified walls. In Biertan, the project financed rehabilitation of the community square and
facades of surrounding historic houses. Viscri has become a model of what is possible through coordinated
effort and strong village leadership. There is growing evidence of increased income-generating activities
based on tourism and crafts developments. About 2,500 tourists from Germany, France, Italy and the
United Kingdom visited the village during 2004, slightly more than the 2,200 in 2003. Roma families in
Viscri are actively involved in rural tourism (i.e. bed and breakfasts as well as crafts, such as knitting of
socks and sweaters). Biertan also offers good quality rural tourism opportunity; in addition, the village now
hosts a research unit for natural pharmaceutical products, using plants grown in the unique micro-climate
surrounding the village. A number of European government and non-governmental agencies are now
actively working in the region, providing both technical and financial support for community conservation
and development. For example, the Mihai Eminescu Trust, under the patronage of Britain's Prince of
Wales, is providing help in crafts training and development as well as funding for sanitary facilities in
village bed and breakfasts. The World Monuments Fund and the German-based Siebenburgishe-Sachsische
Stiftung ( Transylvanian Saxon Foundation) jointly supported repairs to the fortified Evangelical Church in
Biertan, providing a total of $140,000 to survey and document humidity problems of the church walls and
foundations, to make repairs to the roofing and water collection system, and to restore inappropriate prior
interventions.

Additional Project Activities. This component is rated Satisfactory. Seven additional project activities,
involving restoration of historic structures, were requested by Government and agreed by the Bank to be
included in the project: Miclauseni Castle (Iasi county); Sighisoara Blacksmith Tower (Mures county);
Sibiu House of Arts (Sibiu county); Calnic Tower (Alba county); Bucharest historic house; Tisa wooden
church (Hunedoara county) and Sacalu wooden church (Mures county). Two of these ­ restoration of the
historic wooden churches at Tisa and Sacalu ­ have been completed in exemplary fashion by Romanian
specialists. Restoration of the Calnic Tower (Alba county) as well as the other project interventions have
also been completed satisfactorily; the Bucharest historic house was dropped from the project because of
the lack of detailed plans and government approvals. The additional project activities, requested by the
Government, were financed by savings from the Loan and through Government financial contribution. The
savings of about US$1.0 million resulted from successful international competitive bidding for the main
works on the Brancusi Endless Column; a Romanian contractor won the bid. The Government was keen to
use the savings for priority cultural restoration activities which were not included in the original project
description but which had received requisite feasibility studies and international approvals.

Institutional Strengthening. The overall rating of this component is Modest. The key aspects of this
component, relating to the formulation of a national partnership strategy in heritage preservation, including
the institution of an inventory of national heritage, have been completed satisfactorily. Two new cultural
laws were approved in 2000 to provide an enabling framework for improved management of the country's
heritage, including partnership arrangements. The Bank team provided feedback on initial drafts and
discussed the overall approach with the Ministry team writing the legislation. Most important, Ministry of
Culture officials had contacts with key officials in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg who have extensive
experience in modern cultural preservation laws and regulations that are common throughout Europe. The
Council of Europe provided strategic assistance to the Romanian officials just as they had done earlier in
the case of the Georgia cultural heritage project. This assistance, instigated by the Bank, was said to be
very helpful. Work on the national inventory of Romanian cultural assets, involving specially developed
software and about 75 computers that have been installed in 56 nodes or cultural branches throughout the
country, is, by most standards, a model for transition countries in Eastern Europe and has received


                                                       - 6 -

favorable recognition elsewhere. More than 30,000 monument records have already been transferred from
the legacy database and about 900,000 more record entries are being installed in the inventory data base by
the Institute for Cultural Memory, providing up to date information on Romanian monuments, historic
objects, archeological sites, cultural assets of all kinds. This information, to be made accessible publicly via
the internet, is regarded as an essential tool for research and education as well as the future management of
the country's extensive patrimony. However, less than satisfactory progress has been made in strengthening
the project implementation unit in the Ministry of Culture with respect to overall management capacity
including monitoring and evaluation capacity. This has been due largely to frequent changes in management
and staff of the PIU. Despite these difficulties, the PIU has developed important skills in competitive
tendering for important restoration works as well as accounting and coordination of implementation tasks
with local communities. This experience has been helpful to other restoration activities supported by other
international donors.

The public education and awareness campaign never got off the ground beyond an initial feasibility report
that focused on limited targets. The original plan for a feasibility study of the use and destination of the
National Library building in Bucharest was dropped from the project at Government request. These were
relatively less important activities at the time, and the project outcome was not affected adversely by their
elimination.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An estimate for net present value or economic rate of return was not included in the original appraisal
mainly because appropriate methodologies for achieving this were not developed at the time. It might have
been possible to formulate an initial methodology using proxies for components and activities not easily
quantifiable; however, this would have taken more time and cost than were available to teams preparing the
first family of Learning and Innovation Loans.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return estimate was not included in project preparation or appraisal since few of the
specific project activities were expected to generate revenues quickly or directly. It was hoped, nonetheless,
that key project activities would benefit indirectly by stimulating tourism and economic growth in adjacent
areas. This is in fact happening (e.g. Mogosoaia, Saxon Villages).

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest institutional development has been achieved. Legislative reforms and institution of a new digitized
national cultural inventory have effectively established a new framework for the improved management of
national patrimony in future. Communities and local officials involved in carrying out the project ­ in Tirgu
Jiu, Mogosoaia and the pilot Saxon villages ­ have benefited from the new transparency and accountability
introduced and fostered by the project through careful planning of subprojects, competitive bidding for
works and services, greater consultation with a wider group of stakeholders. The project has been less than
successful in instituting strong institutional development within the project unit in the Ministry of Culture.
This is mainly because of the rapid turnover of managers and staff during the project life. It must be said,
however, that the current PIU director, the fourth, has progressed significantly, particularly in helping to
instill at local government levels (i.e. Tirgu Jiu and Saxon Villages) greater understanding and support for
community consultation as well as stronger transparency and competitive procedures in the design and
execution of civil works. In addition, the PIU director has been called on periodically by her Ministry to
help with the management of other donor-financed projects.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:



                                                       - 7 -

One main factor outside government or implementing agency control affecting project implementation and
outcome is that tourism development did not materialize as robustly as expected during the early stages of
the project. This was due in part to uncertainties resulting from the inherent difficulties, such as macro
economic weakness and other social problems, faced by an economy in transition. Also, project
implementation was affected by changes in management at the national and local levels following elections.
Officials and managers who had been associated with the project preparation and early implementation
were replaced by others who knew very little about the Bank, much less the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government support for the Project Implementation Unit has been mixed at best. Recruitment of PIU
directors proved to be weak and the directors chosen proved to be too inexperienced. There were frequent
turnovers (four directors during the project life). Low salary levels contributed to the problem. More
recently, the Ministry of Culture has generally succeeded in giving the PIU the consistent support it
needed. Also, the decision of the Ministry of Culture to engage in a protracted dispute over unit prices with
the main Romanian contractor for the Brancusi Endless Column ­ even though unit prices had earlier been
agreed ­ resulted in inordinate disbursement and other delays.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The last, and current, director of the PIU is a dedicated, hard-working individual who has been committed
to the project's objective and outcomes. However, she has had difficulty in attracting and keeping reliable
staff to help with project execution, largely because of inadequate salary levels; this factor, together with
others beyond her control, have tended to have an adverse effect on project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, total project cost, including contingencies, was estimated to be US$6.9 million over four
years with the WB loan contribution of US$5.0 million. The loan was fully disbursed (100%) by the end of
the grace period (April 30, 2005); Government counterpart funds as well as the WMF grant were also
available, as planned. Additional project activities totaled an estimated US$1.5 million of which about US$
1.2 was financed from the Bank loan and the rest by the Government. Detailed figures are presented in
Annex 2.

During the grace period, the Ministry of Culture PIU reported that, due to the recent sharp decrease of the
US$, some contracts' guarantees could no longer be paid from the project budget and would be covered
from other Ministry funds.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The key project investments ­ Brancusi sculptural ensemble; Mogosoaia Brancovan palace; pilot Saxon
village activities ­ are likely to be sustainable, largely because of the broad-based support (international,
national and community) that has been generated. Restoration of the Brancusi Endless Column was widely
regarded as a signal achievement by most Romanians. The fact that a Romanian contractor, supported by
local and international entities, was able to complete the work in record time and in accordance with
requisite international standards, has helped revive national pride. Equally important, the Brancusi
experience has tended to galvanize local community support to sustain the restored complex through
regular maintenance and care, financed in part by local government revenues and tourism fees. Local
authorities will need to be particularly vigilant in assuring that such maintenance is provided reliably. The
Brancusi component is also regarded as a centerpiece of the cultural heritage preservation work of the
World Monuments Fund, which has been promoting its significance and tourism value internationally.
Similar broad-based support is evident at the Mogosoaia palace, where expanding cultural programs have



                                                       - 8 -

provided a foundation for new user fees that cover about 80% of the facility's annual operating costs.
Increased tourism and broad-based community and European support also help ensure the sustainability of
project investments in the pilot villages of Viscri, Biertan and Mosna. These villages have become models
for similar developments elsewhere in Transylvania. Benefits of investments in capacity building related to
the afore-mentioned activities, as well as to those related to the national cultural inventory, are likely to be
sustained, again through broad-based support and the generally positive track record to date. Whether
investments in such activities as the Potlogi emergency repairs or some of the additional project activities
­i.e. wooden churches ­ or capacity building in the Ministry of Culture can be sustainable are open to
question.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
At the time of project closing, no transition arrangements to regular operations had been made with the
exception of the new cultural laws which govern all activities in the sector. However, given the importance
of cultural heritage to Romania and the strong interest in preserving that patrimony as an essential element
of national identity as well as a source of potential tourism, discussions are underway to consider how best
to mobilize continued support, possibly to scale up the outcomes of the Cultural Heritage Project through a
larger scale intervention that would further address cultural heritage preservation within the context of a
more community development framework relying on a bottom-up approach and greater engagement of the
civil society. This could be envisaged under a multi sector program rather than a stand-alone cultural
operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Performance of the Bank in lending was satisfactory. Given the social and economic context in which the
Government requested Bank assistance for cultural heritage development, use of the Learning and
Innovation loan proved to be the right kind of instrument at the right time and with sufficient flexibility to
respond to perceived needs and priorities in a new sector. The project design was influenced to some extent
by the experience from the Institutional Development Fund grant to the city of Vilnius, Lithuania for
cultural strategy development as well as from the Cultural Heritage Loan (also a LIL) to Georgia.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory. Regular supervision missions were fielded during the
project's six years of implementation. These missions took place about every six months during 1999 and
2004. Missions lasted up to two weeks each and typically comprised three or more members, including
foreign and local consultants as well as one or more representatives of the World Monuments Fund. The
latter, at its expense, recruited a team of internationally recognized specialists (metallurgy, art historian,
sculptors etc.) to advise on the detailed design for restoration of the Brancusi Endless Column and to
monitor initial stages of work. The WMF also hired an internationally reputed landscape consulting firm to
help design the Brancusi landscaping work in collaboration with Romanian specialists. Supervision also
adapted to the evolving needs of the Government.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. Given the project's small size and experimental nature,
the use of a Learning and Innovation Loan was the best realistic lending option. Engaging a world class
co-financing partner with the international experience of the World Monuments Fund also proved to be a
fortuitous initiative; it was the first time the WMF had become involved in a Bank-financed project. Given
the limited budget support available to Bank teams supervising the LIL, extraordinary efforts were made to
secure trust fund resources throughout the life of the project to hire international specialists to aide with the



                                                       - 9 -

work.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation is assessed as satisfactory. Thorough background material had
been prepared and there was close cooperation at the time of preparation between the Government and the
Bank as well as the World Monuments Fund. Leadership and vision provided by key government officials
at the time ensured that the project was responsive to Romania's perceived needs.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's implementation performance, though generally satisfactory at the beginning and towards the
end of the project, was only marginally satisfactory in between. In the six year implementation period, there
were two unsatisfactory ratings by the Bank that were subsequently upgraded to satisfactory. Overall
implementation performance was adversely affected by changes of managers and staff of the project
implementation agency, occasioned by changes in the leadership of the Ministry of Culture as a result of a
national election. This was compounded by a protracted dispute with the main Brancusi contractor over
project cost as well as delays by the Ministry of Culture in providing adequate support to the PIU. This
was largely rectified during the last year of the project implementation when increased staff salaries were
approved. Overall, all project activities were carried out satisfactorily, although two additional years were
needed for completion.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Progress of the implementing agency was marginally satisfactory and for a time unsatisfactory. This was
due largely to the rather frequent changes in staff and managers, most of whom had no experience with a
Bank-financed project. Towards the end, the situation improved because of the commitment and dedication
of the current PIU director, who worked diligently despite lack of staff support. Project performance was
rated by the Bank as satisfactory during most of the six-year implementation period with the exception of
one unsatisfactory rating in 2003 relating to delays in government approvals of essential project activities
as well as the execution of key works. The rating was subsequently upgraded to satisfactory.

The project financial statements have been audited annually by independent auditors. The audit report for
the first year was qualified and there were certain internal control issues mentioned by the auditors in the
initial years of the project. The PIU has strengthened the project financial management arrangements and
addressed the issues, so that the most recent audit reports have been unqualified and with no internal
control issues mentioned. The project financial statements for the final 16 months period are now being
audited by the existing independent auditors and the audit reports will be submitted by June 30, 2005.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. Project targets and objectives were achieved in
all project activities, The government demonstrated its commitment to the broad objectives of the project
and the innovative approaches, despite execution delays and one brief unsatisfactory implementation rating
by the Bank. The Ministry of Public Finance provided valuable support and guidance throughout; this was
particularly important in view of the fact that this was an unfamiliar sector for both the Bank and the
Government and it was the first involvement of the Ministry of Culture with a Bank-financed activity.
Although the performance of the Project Implementation Unit was mixed and sometimes marginally
satisfactory, largely because of frequent staff changes, in the final years of implementation the PIU director
and staff demonstrated strong commitment to the project and worked hard to secure appropriate
Government approvals for key works and to ensure that tendering and procurement were carried out in a
transparent manner, consistent with Bank guidelines.



                                                      - 10 -

8. Lessons Learned

·        The piloting nature of a Learning and Innovation Loan proved to be particularly appropriate in a
new sector and an uncertain setting where experimentation and testing of innovative approaches ­ i.e.
especially in the Saxon village development ­ are essential. However, the selection process for pilot villages
would have benefited from a more comprehensive community consultative effort earlier in the process
including clearer selection criteria.
·        Fostering community consultation in an effort to encourage community consensus, particularly in
small, poor, ethnically diverse areas, can be a slow, painstaking process that, while essential, can often
conflict with the rapid response features of a Leaning and Innovation Loan. A stronger community
consultation and engagement effort should have been built into the project at the beginning and throughout
implementation.
·        Monitoring and evaluation systems must be carefully designed to ensure that monitoring efforts
produce data that are useful in assessing project outcomes and impact.
·        Given the nature of Learning and Innovation Loans, with their emphasis on relatively fast
preparation and appraisal, it is often necessary to give far more support for supervision (financial and
technical) than current Bank parameters allow.
·        Bank procurement procedures and requirements are sometimes difficult to apply in unfamiliar
situations under a cultural heritage project (such as restoration of historic painted doors at the Mogosoaia
Palace or specialized pressurized recoating of cast iron modules on the Brancusi ensemble).
·        Despite a slow implementation and disbursement experience the project has had significant
multiplier effects in key areas such as attracting other partners and donors (government and
non-government) to assist and provide support in community conservation and development (i.e. Saxon
villages in Transylvania and the Brancusi ensemble at Tirgu Jiu). This was achieved largely through the
combined efforts of the Government, the Bank and the World Monuments Fund to publicize in Europe and
elsewhere the potential that the new project held for constructive collaboration in the culture sector. This
possibility was not recognized at appraisal but only became clear while the project gpt started. the lesson is
that significant multiplier effects can be secured if project partners are willing to respond quickly and
creatively to unforeseen opportunities.
·        Given the importance and uniqueness of cultural assets, and the patrimony regulations that govern
their management and use in most countries, there are inevitable and understandable clearance and
approvals at various levels that result in unexpected execution delays. The nature of these processes are
significantly different from those experienced in most Bank-supported sectors; for example, the processes
involve several layers of review by art historian, restoration experts and other specialists inside and outside
the Government. This factor must be taken more into account in initial project design.
·        With respect to the use of the Learning and Innovation Loan instrument, (i) for the Bank, it proved
effective in responding quickly to a Borrower's strong priority and in attracting support from other donors
for direct investments (i.e. the World Monuments Fund, a first time co-financier in a Bank operation); (ii)
for the Government, an excellent tool to test different partnership approaches for more effective
management of cultural patrimony. Even though additional time ­ two years ­ was required to complete
implementation, use of the LIL instrument was, in retrospect, an appropriate instrument because of its
responsive, client-oriented nature which appealed both to Romania (and other countries emerging from a
difficult economic/social transition), as well as to other donors and cofinancing partners.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Public Finance, General Directorate for External Public Finance, reviewed the ICR and
sent a letter to the Bank (dated June 2, 2005) confirming on the Bank document and attaching the



                                                      - 11 -

Borrower's Evaluation Report prepared by the PIU under the Ministry of Culture and Religious Affairs.
The Borrower's Evaluation Report is presented in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments received from Ms. Bonnie Burnham, President of the World Monuments Fund are copied
bellow:

"The Learning and Innovation Loan offered a valuable opportunity for the World Monuments Fund and the
Romanian Government to work together toward mutual goals that could not have been accomplished
without the availability of World Bank funding. The loan program allowed the government to substantially
complete the restoration of one of the country's most prestigious cultural complexes - the Brancusi Endless
Column ensemble - and to improve the condition of other priority sites, which will most certainly play a
role in helping to build tourism to the country in the future. Tourism development is a key component in
the government's strategy to produce revenue and local employment.

All the parties who worked together to complete this program ­ national and local authorities, researchers,
contractors, and NGOs ­ recognized the importance of this precedent as a new paradigm for collaborative
financing and were eager to capitalize on the opportunity. The magnitude of the undertaking produced
both a will to succeed and a certain amount of misapprehension amongst a group of players each seeking to
control aspects of the program while lacking knowledge of each others' procedures and objectives.        In a
country where there is virtually little history of open and transparent cooperation amongst various
stakeholders, all the participants had a great deal to learn about how to reach consensus on specific issues
and how to translate this consensus into effective action. In the end, the goals of the program were
accomplished, but the exercise will have failed to realize its potential, in terms of the investment made in
this learning process, unless it is redeployed as a framework for future financing partnerships.

From beginning to end the program was highly visible, attracting both local and international press. While
public commentary within Romania was often shaded by the political agendas of the various media outlets,
there was a constant public awareness of the program, which must be seen as evidence of a strong public
interest and support for the preservation of the national heritage. Hopefully this interest will be translated
into citizen participation in the future planning for these sites."

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a

10. Additional Information

The ICR team included:
Thomas Blinkhorn, TTL
Mariana Moarcas, Operations Officer, ECSHD
Cristina Zirimis, Program Assistant, ECCRO




                                                      - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                         1
               Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Completed long-term national partnership    100%                           100%
strategy for cultural heritage management,
including priority action plan and national
inventory. 08/00
2. Completion of high quality restoration      100%                           100%
works.
3. Ministry of Culture strengthened in project 100%                           80%
management capability, strategy formulation,
private sector relationships.
4. Effective partnerships at targeted          100%                           100%
restoration sites including broad-based
stakeholder representation.
5. Local residents in Saxon villages actively  100%                           100%
collaborating on pilot tourism, crafts
development, small scale agriculture and
other community-based activities.
6. New site fee mechanisms and other           50%                            80%
revenue-generation measures in place.


Output Indicators:
                                                                         1
               Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Tendering documents completed for major 100%                               100%
components - Brancusi Ensemble. 6/1/00


2. Modalities for on-lending to Saxon Villages 100%                           100%
completed and approved. 10/1/00
3. National Strategy planning underway.        100%                           100%
08/00


1End of project




                                                           - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Brancusi Ensemble                                            3.30             3.15            95.4
Brancovan Palaces                                            1.70             0.80              47
Saxon Villages                                               0.30             0.50           166.7
Institutional Strengthening                                  0.90             1.10           122.2
Restoration of Other Historical Monuments                    0.00             1.44

Total Baseline Cost                                          6.20             6.99
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.70
                          Total Project Costs                6.90             6.99
                   Total Financing Required                  6.90             6.99


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            4.83            0.00         0.82          0.00         5.65
                                   (3.80)          (0.00)      (0.40)          (0.00)       (4.20)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00         0.30          0.08         0.38
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.30)          (0.00)       (0.30)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.50          0.25         0.75
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (0.50)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.12         0.12
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            4.83            0.00         1.62          0.45         6.90
                                   (3.80)          (0.00)      (1.20)          (0.00)       (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            2.53           0.62         1.93           0.51        5.59
                                   (2.06)         (0.49)       (1.43)         (0.00)       (3.98)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.00         0.85           0.08        0.93
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.67)         (0.00)       (0.67)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         0.36           0.04        0.40
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.31)         (0.00)       (0.31)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00           0.00         0.05           0.02        0.07

                                                - 14 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.04)           (0.00)          (0.04)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00            0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00            0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
       Total                               2.53               0.62               3.19             0.65            6.99
                                          (2.06)             (0.49)             (2.45)           (0.00)          (5.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services of contracted staff of the
       project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs.

       Note: the NCB procurement method should be read as MW.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank       Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.       CoF.      Bank    Govt.      CoF.
Brancusi Ensemble               2.60        0.57         0.60         1.93         0.56       0.57       74.2    98.2      95.0
Brancovan Palaces               1.50        0.30         0.00         0.60         0.19       0.00       40.0    63.3       0.0
Saxon Villages                  0.30        0.10         0.00         0.38         0.10       0.00      126.7   100.0       0.0
Institutional Strengthening     0.60        0.33         0.00         0.89         0.19       0.06      148.3    57.6       0.0
Restoration of Other            0.00        0.00         0.00         1.20         0.32       0.00       0.0      0.0       0.0
Historical Monuments
TOTAL                           5.00        1.30         0.60         5.00         1.36       0.63      100.0   104.6     105.0




                                                           - 15 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal, nor was it done at
the time of this ICR.




                                                 - 16 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/28/1988                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ARCHITECT/RESTORER (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SP (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1);


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/11/1998                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ARCHITECT/RESTORER
                                             (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1); LAWYER (1);


 Supervision

              04/07/1999                8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ARCHITECT (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPECIAL
                                             (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALISTS
                                             (1); SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (1)
              10/04/1999                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             INFO. SPECIALIST (1); FMS
                                             (1); FMS - CONST. (1);
                                             ARCHITECT- CONST. (1)
              05/19/2000                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             FMS CONS (1)
              11/27/2000                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              04/16/2001                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                                             CULTURE HISTORIAN (1);
                                             ARCHITECT/RESTORER (1)
              05/15/2002                6    MISSION LEADER (1);              U               S
                                             FIN.MANAGEMENT SPEC.
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); ARCHITECT (1);
                                             CULTURE HISTORIAN (1);



                                              - 17 -

                                                 LOC.CON.- SOC. SCIENT (1)
               11/13/2002                    4   MISSION LEADER (1); SR. FIN        S    S
                                                 MGMT SPEC (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                 ARCHITECT/RESTORATION
                                                 (1)
               04/04/2003                    4   MISSION LEADER (1);                S    S
                                                 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                 ARCHITECT CONSULTANT
                                                 (1);
                                                 ARCHITECT/RESTORATION
                                                 (1)
               12/09/2003                    5   TASK MANAGER (1);                  U    S
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                 ARCHITECT/RESTORATION
                                                 (1); SR.FIN.MANAGM. SPEC.
                                                 (1); PROCUREMENT SP. (1)
               04/28/2004                    5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                 FINANCIAL MNGMT. SP (1);
                                                 PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                                 (1);
                                                 ARCHITECT/RESTAURATION
                                                 (1)


 ICR
               11/14/2004                         TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                                  OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                  (1); FINANCIAL MNGMT.
                                                  SP
                                                  (1);ARCHITECT/RESTAU
                                                  RATION (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                 100
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                      122
  Supervision                                                                636
  ICR                                                                         30
  Total                                                                     888*
*including $346,000 consultant trust funds




                                                  - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, Cultural Heritage Project, November 18, 1998
Loan Agreement, Cultural Heritage Project, December 23, 1998
Integrated Site development and management Plan for the Brancovan Palace Ensembles, Institute for
Housing and Urban Development Studies (IHS), Rotterdam, December 31, 2002
Progress Monitoring report, Ravi Venkataraman, January 31, 2003
Report on the Saxon Village Component, Manuela Stanculescu, June 2002




                                                - 21 -

Additional Annex 8.

MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS
Project Implementation Unit
Evaluation Report of the Borrower




                                CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT


        The Romania Cultural Heritage project has, on balance, been a successful endeavor mainly
because of its innovative approaches in pursuit of a critically important national goal: improved
management of the country's rich and extensive patrimony through the testing of new, partnership
options. Although the project Closing Date needed to be extended by two years, key project
objectives have been achieved. New enabling legislation has been passed to better regulate the
management of cultural assets consistent with European-wide standards. A new national cultural
inventory, using digital data and customized software, has been established and will provide a
convenient tool for up-to-date cultural management. New partnership approaches have been
instituted at all key project sites and user fees introduced at many with a view to achieving
financial self-sustainability over time. Important lessons have been learned in the areas of project
management and appropriate methods for fostering greater community involvement. Overall, the
experience has been instructive and will provide a good foundation for future development of the
sector. The challenge now is to build on this experience, to apply the lessons learned strategically
in the interest of preserving the best of Romanian cultural heritage for future generations and to
help stimulate broader cultural tourism.

        This final evaluation report on the Romania Cultural Heritage project was prepared in
fulfillment of the Government of Romania's (Borrower) responsibility towards the preparation of
the project's Implementation Completion Report (ICR).

        Consistent with the guidelines for completing ICRs, the report includes an assessment of
project objectives, design and implementation; an evaluation of the Borrower's, the Bank's and
the Co-financier's performances in the development and implementation of the project with
special emphasis on lessons learned; an examination of project benefits and use of funds.

A.      Project Objectives, Design and Implementation.

        Project Objectives

        The overall objective of the Cultural Heritage project was to help Romania develop an
improved national strategy to preserve priority cultural heritage sites and assets by testing
different partnership approaches (public-private; community based; national-international) with a
view to improving overall management in a more sustainable, cost-effective manner. Government
requested World Bank assistance in the pursuit of this objective because it had learned of a new



                                                   - 22 -

Learning and Innovation Loan instrument that seemed to offer the kind of flexibility, innovation
and rapid response that was viewed as essential to the task. The context within which the request
was made is also important to consider: Romania was, in the mid to late-1990s enduring a difficult
economic transition, which is still underway. This meant that resources for national development
were very scarce and new approaches to state centered economic and social betterment needed to
be considered. With so many pressing national priorities, Government believed that the nation's
rich and extensive patrimony was in danger of being jeopardized or lost forever. Thus assistance
from the Bank through a Learning and Innovation Loan, with very specific project objectives, was
felt to be essential.

        Project Design

        Project design was governed by the aforementioned objective. Although Romanian
patrimony is diverse and varied, it was decided early on to focus on very specific priority
activities. These were eventually examined by the Bank and included in the project as the
following components: (a) Brancusi Sculptural Ensemble at Tirgu Jiu. This is one of the country's
most revered artistic complexes, designed by the internationally acclaimed Romanian sculptor
Constantin Brancusi. Its restoration is a keystone of Romania's cultural development strategy; (b)
Brancovan Palace ensembles. Two palaces were selected ­ one at Mogosoaia, involving work on
the main palace, adjoining conference center, adjacent park and greenhouse; the other involving
emergency repairs at the Potlogi palace; (c) Transylvania Saxon Villages. This component was
designed to test, at the community level, options for sustaining cultural heritage preservation and
promoting social and inter-cultural cohesion through new income-generating opportunities arising
from rural tourism, crafts developments and related activities. Several pilot villages, exhibiting
unique 12th and 14th century churches, fortifications and historic structures were selected for this
work; (d) Institutional Strengthening. Assistance for an improved, long-term national cultural
heritage partnership strategy including, among others, development of a computerized national
cultural heritage inventory within the context of new laws regulating management of the country's
patrimony. Assistance also provided for capacity building in the project implementation unit in the
Ministry of Culture and in the various project sites; (e) Additional Activities. At Government
request, the Bank agreed to modify the original project scope to include several additional priority
restoration works consistent with the project objective and for which feasibility studies and
approvals had been secured. These included historic wooden churches, a unique castle and house
of arts, two historic stone towers.

        Project Implementation

        Overall, implementation experience was salutary and instructive. Although Romania is one
of the largest Bank borrowers in the Europe, Central Asia region, this was the first time the
Government of Romania had been involved with a Bank-assisted operation in the cultural field.
Also, the Ministry of Culture had never before been involved with a Bank operation. So there was
much to learn.
        For a variety of reasons, staff of the project implementation unit changed during the
course of project execution and this meant new learning requirements. Nonetheless,
implementation is regarded as satisfactory overall.



                                                 - 23 -

B.      Evaluation of the Government' s own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on the lessons learned that may be
relevant in future

        The Government of Romania fulfilled its responsibilities as required by the project in a
satisfactory manner, including the provision of US$1.3 million equivalent in counterpart funds to
ensure effective project completion.

        The Ministry of Culture, which housed the Project Implementation Unit, also fulfilled its
responsibilities although there were delays in securing necessary approvals for certain key project
works because of government patrimony requirements and occasional complications due to
changes in PIU management and staff.

        The PIU took time to operate at the levels of efficiency and effectiveness envisioned by
the Project. This was evidenced in occasional delays in initiating civil works on key components
along other complications. However, this is a new sector and the Ministry had no previous
experience with a Bank-financed project. That implementation was fully satisfactory in the end is
a tribute to the diligence and hard work of the PIU director and staff.

C.      Evaluation of the Bank's performance during the preparation and implementation
of the project

        The World Bank fulfilled most of its responsibilities in a timely and supportive manner and
was flexible in its approach to project implementation as evidenced by the decision to extend the
closing date and to agree to additional priority project activities. The Bank was also diligent in the
monitoring of project implementation with all half-yearly visits carried out on schedule and
reports delivered as promised. This, plus the regular contact between PIU and Bank staff, proved
to be a very important component of project implementation and is one of the major factors that
influenced the ability of the project to achieve its objectives.

D.      Evaluation of the Cofinancing Partners

        The World Monuments Fund, co-financing partner, fulfilled its responsibilities with respect
to the major project component, Brancusi sculptural ensemble, in a fully satisfactory manner. It
too was flexible in approach and in helping to support the PIU through periods of pressure. In
addition, the WMF helped mobilize other international support and financing in support of the
project, above and beyond that originally pledged for the Brancusi component.

E.      Performance with special emphasis on Lessons Learned.

Among the key lessons learned are:

·       The need for a project implementation schedule to be based more on the capacity of the
project implementation agency. This was highlighted by the need for more experience by PIU



                                                 - 24 -

managers and staff unfamiliar with Bank-financed projects and in a new sector. Also, the project
needed two additional years to complete all agreed activities satisfactorily.
·       The need to involve beneficiaries more in project design and implementation. Some work
was done in this area but more could have been done.
·       The need for better internal communications and coordination among the various
government departments at national and local levels responsible for implementing the project.
·       Romania's extensive and rich cultural heritage offers tremendous opportunity for
partnership development (partners in the government and non-government sectors) and great
potential for careful cultural-based tourism development. This is extremely important as Romania
positions itself for membership in the European Union.

F.      Use of Funds

        All project funds ­ from the World Bank, the Government and the World Monuments
Fund ­ have been deployed in accordance with original project objectives and scope. As of
project closing a total of $5,000.000 has been disbursed from the Bank Loan for agreed project
activities.

G.      Identification of the benefits that derived from the project

Project benefits have been significant and include the following:

·       Significant experience has been gained by the Ministry of Culture and the Government
generally (at national and local levels) in the management of a challenging cultural project, funded
by international donors. This is a "first" for Romania and provides a good foundation for
improving further the management of the country's rich cultural patrimony.
·       A new enabling framework has been established for improved management of Romania
cultural assets. This framework includes new regulatory regime, reflected in two laws enacted in
2000, plus a new national cultural inventory, digitized and facilitated with customized computer
software. This is national program and one of the first of its kind in the transition countries of
Eastern Europe.
·       New partnership models have evolved at key project sites, particularly the Brancusi
ensemble in Tirgu Jiu, the Mogosoaia Brancovan palace and in the pilot Saxon villages of
Transyvania, that broaden the scope of support for cultural preservation with a view to sustaining
it through stronger community empowerment links and tourism.




                                                 - 25 -

- 26 -

