Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 18409-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN (LIL)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FORA
CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT
November 18, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Department
Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 21, 1998)
Currency Unit = Lei
1 Leu = US$ .000105
US$ 1 = 9,560.0 Lei
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31, 1998
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
ECA          Europe and Central Asia
GoR          Government of Romania
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
MIS          Management Information System
MoF          Ministry of Finance
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
WMF          World Monuments Fund
Vice President:     Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:    Kevin Cleaver
Team Leader:     Thomas Blinkhorn



Romania
Cultural Heritage Project
(Learning and Innovation Loan)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



ii
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Financial Summary
Annex 5.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table D.     Procurement Schedule
Table E.     Procurement Information
Attachment   Financial Management System
Annex 6.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 7      Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 8.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9.     Romania at a Glance
Map          Romania Cultural Heritage LIL (IBRD 29748)



Romania
Cultural Heritage Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date: November 18, 1998                              Team Leader: Thomas Blinkhom, ECSSD
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5           Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver, ECSSD
Project ID: RO-PE-58284  Sector: Environmentally and    Program Objective Category: Environmentally
Socially Sustainable        Sustainable Development(EN); PV
Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan     Program of Targeted Intervention: [ x] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data              [x] Loan        [  Credit      [I Guarantee      [  Other (Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.0
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency    [x] Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 5           []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed         [x]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75% on undisbursed loan balance, less any waiver. A front end fee of 1% of the Loan amount
will also be levied, payable on or promptly after the effective date.
Financing plan (US$m):
Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                1.3                 -               1.3'
World Monuments Fund (United States)                      0.1                0.5              0.6
IBRD                                                      1.0                4.0              5.0
Total        2.4                4.5              6.9
Borrower: Romania
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Culture (MoC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1999       2000        2001     2002
Annual    1.1         2.0        1.0      0.9
Cumulative    1.1        3.1        4.1       5.0
Project implementation period: four (4) years
Expected effectiveness date: January, 1999
Expected closing date: December 31, 2002
The Government contribution includes estimated taxes.
OSD PAD Form: November 18, 1998



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project development objective is to help Romania develop an improved national cultural heritage
strategy that will, among other goals, preserve priority cultural heritage sites/assets by testing different
partnership approaches (public-private; community based, national-international) with a view to
improving overall management in a more sustainable, cost-effective manner.
Performance Indicators:
1. Completed long-term national partnership strategy for cultural heritage management, including
priority action plan and national inventory.
2. Completion of high quality restoration works.
3. Ministry of Culture strengthened in project management capability, strategy formulation,
private sector relationships.
4. Effective partnerships at targeted restoration sites including broad-based stakeholder
representation.
5. Local residents in Saxon villages actively collaborating on pilot tourism, crafts development,
small scale agriculture and other community-based activities.
6. New site fee mechanisms and other revenue-generation measures in place.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16559-RO, May, 1997   Date of latest CAS discussion: June 3, 1997
The proposed project supports the CAS objective of helping to rationalize the role of the state by
strengthening public institutions, improving environmental management, fostering partners in the private
sector, and building local capacity through community mobilization and competitive tendering processes.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Much of Romania's cultural heritage is in serious disrepair due to lack of public financing and years of
neglect. The constrained current fiscal situation and competing demands for scarce public resources
continues to limit financial support for cultural heritage protection and management. Thus, difficult
choices need to be made about national priorities in the near term. Government has decided that the
historic central role of the state in cultural heritage needs to be supported with new partnership models
with the private sector, international donors, organized community groups, and civil society at large. A
strategy to achieve this objective is evolving.
One major sectoral issue is the deterioration and/or loss of a large number of historic sites, architecture,
and culturally distinctive assets - and the lack of financial resources to renovate them or prevent further
deterioration. A closely related issue concerns the lack of local capacity to manage, in a more cost
effective, sustainable manner, the country's abundant cultural legacy at a time of transition from state
control. The Ministry of Culture has initiated an examination of the state role along with a search for
international assistance and private sector partnerships in order to build support and financing for the
nation's patrimony. The current Government goal is to seek World Bank financing to catalyze a pilot loan
in the sector, using it to help develop an improved long-termn national cultural heritage partnership
strategy and mobilize or leverage additional financing from other international donors such as the World
Monuments Fund, UNESCO, Council of Europe, bilateral donors and others.
2



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices: The proposed LIL would finance
urgent rehabilitation and restoration priorities, as identified by Government. It would also provide
support for improved management of cultural heritage preservation by testing new public-private
partnership approaches and by building capacity at the national and local levels. Finally, the LIL would
assist in the formulation of a long-term national cultural heritage partnership strategy that could include
assistance for implementation of national legislative reform; assistance for upgrading an inventory of
national cultural heritage, as well as a program of public information to help raise national and
international awareness and support.
C: Project Description Summary -- see Annex 2.
1. The project includes four components:
a) Support for the renovation and restoration of the internationally acclaimed Brancusi Sculptural
Ensemble in the town of Tirgu Jiu, northwest of Bucharest. The ensemble is one of Romania's most
revered artistic complexes, designed by the internationally acclaimed Romanian sculptor Constantin
Brancusi, who was born near Tirgu Jiu. The investment involves highly specialized restoration activities,
including renovation of the Endless Column, Gate of the Kiss, Alley of the Stools, and Table of Silence.
It will also entail site management planning, including landscaping and tourism development. This
component has been designated by Government as Romania's Millennium project.
b) Assistance to help (i) complete restoration of the 18th century Brancovan Palace at Mogosoaia and (ii)
finance emergency repairs and prepare a site development and management plan and community support
program for a second Brancovan palace at Potlogi. Both palaces are a relatively short distance from
Bucharest and are envisioned as part of a future historic and cultural tourism itinerary. Restoration work
at Mogosoania will involve installation of a fire alarm system at the palace (almost completely restored),
renovation of the entrance hall, and completion of a nearby Cultural Center and small hotel, landscape
improvements, and green house renovation.
c) Support for a program to test pilot efforts in selected historic Saxon Villages in the central
Transylvania regio to determine options for sustaining cultural preservation and promoting social and
inter-cultural cohesion through new income-generating opportunities arising from tourism, infrastructure
improvements, craft development and related activities. Four villages are expected to be involved, based
on criteria which include motivation among ethnic groups to work together. The program will include a
social assessment and community impact study as well as financing for a community development
program to support (i) priority repairs of cultural assets or other important activities defined by the
community and, (ii) tourism, historic exhibits and crafts development on a pilot basis.
d) Assistance for Institutional Strengthening involving (i) capacity building in the new project
management unit in the Ministry of Culture, including a monitoring and evaluation program and training.
(ii) formulation of an improved, long-term national cultural heritage partnership strategy that will include
support for the upgrading and implementation of the national cultural heritage inventory and involve
possible legislative reform including zoning standards, (iii) Feasibility studies to determine the
appropriate future use of the partially completed new building for theNational Library in Bucharest; and
(iv) public information and awareness-raising campaign to help build stronger civic understanding of, and
support for, the importance of cultural heritage in the nation's future development.
3



Component               Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
________________S__M(US$M)  (US$M)   financing
INVESTMENT:
1. Brancusi Sculptural Ensemble  Physical/         3.7         54       2.6         52
at Tirgu Jiu                     Institutional
Building
2. Brancovan Palaces             Physical/          1.8        26        1.5         30
Mogosoaia                   Institutional
Potlogi                      Building
3. Saxon Villages Heritage       Physical/         0.4          6        0.3          6
Development - Transylvania       Institutional
Building
4. Institution-Strengthening                        1.0.        14      0.6          12
*  Support to Project            Institutional     0.6
Management Unit (Ministry    Building/
of Culture)                    Policy
-  National strategy for cultural                  0.2
heritage, including upgrading
of the National Inventory
*  Public awareness program;                       0.15
training; auditing
*  National Library Study                          0.05
Total      6.9        100       5.0         100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the strengthening and reform of institutions (national and local) involved in
cultural heritage and tourism through training, capacity-building, decentralization and local
empowerment. The project will help redefine the role of national and local governments in the cultural
heritage sector and also support private sector development, a national strategic plan, as well as a revised
legal framework in support of cultural heritage protection.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will benefit key beneficiary institutions and/or users of cultural heritage assets as follows:
a) Brancusi Sculptural Ensemble: People in surrounding region, local residents of Tirgu Jiu; local
administrations; tourists; service providers; other associated businesses. Given the historic significance of
the Brancusi monument for Romania, its restoration will also impart a strong sense of national pride and
identity-important, if not quantifiable, benefits for a country enduring a difficult economic transition.
4



b) Brancovam Palaces: Visitors/tourists, conference participants; artists; new employment opportunities
for local people involved in renovation work and future tourism at Mogosoaia and Potlogi; local
authorities; infrastructure and service business providers.
c) Saxon Villages: local residents, including poor and ethnic groups, in four Saxon villages; local mayors
and governrent; staff and visitors/tourists of cultural facilities benefiting from emergency repair works;
farming; artisans; businesses associated with tourism, infrastructure, services, craft development, farming
and preservation.
d) Institutional Strengthening: Ministry of Culture; regional and local community groups and institutions
involved in project; national population through development of a new national cultural strategy; this
would be facilitated through a public awareness program; foreign donors, partners and tourists.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over a period of four years (1999-2002).
Institutional Fraimework. An advisory committee chaired by the Minister of Culture and including
representatives of Ministries of Finance, Tourism, Forests, Water and Environment, Research and
Technology!, the World Monuments Fund (co-financier), the National Commission on Historic
Monuments., National Library, and Brancusi International Foundation, other NGO's and local authorities
will provide policy advice and oversight. A small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has recently been
established in the Ministry of Culture. Competitive recruitment was done for the director and key staff
(financial manager, procurement expert, monitoring and evaluation specialist) in a manner found
satisfactory to the Bank. During the early stages of the project, several local and foreign advisors will be
required in financial management, operations assistance, monitoring and evaluation, and
technical/procurement. During the first year of the project, foreign technical advisors may be needed on a
periodic basis in the skill-areas of project management, procurement, monitoring and architectural design;
these advisors to the PIU will be supported, wherever possible, by trust funds or other grants (e.g. WMF).
For each of the project components (e.g. Brancusi Monument; Brancovan Palaces; Saxon Villages)
experienced coordinators, or point people, will be designated to oversee feasibility studies planning and
execution oi works. The World Monuments Fund has agreed to finance, on a grant basis, the services of
(a) an experienced intemnational architect (Romanian American) who will serve effectively as Technical
Adviser to the manager of the PIU for all aspects of the project, particularly the Brancusi and Brancovan
components, which require specialized expertise, as well as in institutional strengthening; (b) other
experts to review restoration plans associated with the Brancusi ensemble in Tirgu Jiu.
Procurement and Disbursement. Detailed procurement and disbursement arrangements were agreed
during appraisal and negotiations with the PIU/Government and are reflected in the final project
documents as well as in the Implementation Manual. Annex 5 contains a summary of the procurement
arrangemenl:s covering goods, civil works, and services/technical assistance, as well as disbursements. A
General Procurement Notice for the Brancusi component has already been reviewed, cleared by the Bank
and Government, and advertised. To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the
Government: will establish in a commercial bank a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PIU under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make a maximum
authorized allocation of US$500,000. Initially the allocation would be limited to US$200,000 until
disbursements have reached an aggregate amount of US$1,000,000, at which time the full authorized
allocation could be claimed. Applications for the replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted quarterly or when 60 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier.
5



The replenishment application would be supported by the necessary documentation, the Special Account
bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank statement. The SA would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Retroactive financing of up to US$150,000 will be
provided for eligible expenditures on civil works, goods, technical assistance and training required for the
initiation of project activities from September 1, 1998 until project effectiveness. In addition Govemment
has agreed, upon ratification of the loan agreement, to either i) deposit counterpart funding of up to
US$100,000 (1 billion Lei) for the first year of the project in a Bank account accessible to the PIU or ii)
ensure that a separate line item is included in the annual budget of the Ministry of Culture providing
adequate counterpart funds for the project.
Accounting, Financial Report, Auditing Arrangements. The PIU will establish and maintain a project
financial management system in a format that is acceptable to the Bank. This will include, among other
things, an appropriate accounting manual, internal controls and audit procedures, and a codified chart of
accounts. Details were agreed during appraisal and will be reflected in a comprehensive action plan as
part of the Project Implementation Manual. Formats (twelve) for Quarterly Financial Reporting were
agreed with the Government during appraisal and will also be included in the Implementation Manual.
The project annual financial statements will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
each fiscal year in accordance with Bank guidelines. Copies of audit reports will be submitted to the Bank
within three months of the close of the country's fiscal year. The cost of the independent auditor will be
financed from the loan under the Consultant Services category.
The financial management system was appraised by two consultants -- an accredited Bank Financial
Management Specialist (FMS) and Financial Management Officer (FMO). Based on reports submitted by
consultants and subsequent discussion with the FMS and FMO, it is recommended that the loan be
disbursed initially using traditional method of disbursement. The PIU, however, will start submitting
quarterly Project Management Report (PMR) on April 30, 1999 for the period ended March 31, 1999. A
description of improvements to the financial management system, including the training program
requirements, is provided in Annex 5 - Financial Management System.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. The PIU will be responsible for monitoring progress
against specific performance and impact indicators. These will include benchmarks consistent with those
contained in Section A. 1 above and in Annex I and covering physical works, goods and services,
institutional arrangements, procurement and disbursement, financial management, community
involvement, private sector participation and sustainability. Specialists in Management Information
Systems (MIS) have been recruited to help the PIU design and set up the monitoring/evaluation system.
Special implementation teams at each project site will provide the PIU with quarterly reports for review
covering implementation progress in all key areas. The format for these reports will be spelled out in the
Project Implementation Manual. A detailed mid-term review in the second year of the project, and no
later than December 31, 2000, will examine these and other project activities with a view to proposing
improvements in the light of experience.
A Project Implementation Manual acceptable to the Bank and providing details of all aspects of project
execution, has been finalized by the PIU.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Grant Assistance for Institutional Strengthening. A special grant from the Bank's Institutional
Development Fund (IDF) facility was considered to help strengthen cultural institutions at the national
and local levels as a prelude to a future lending investment assistance project. In fact, Government
6



officially requested a grant of about $350,000 as a companion to the proposed LIL for this purpose.
However, insufficient funds in the IDF (since amalgamated into a Development Grant Facility [DGF])
made it impossible to consider the request. In light of these developments, assistance for institutional
strengthening, inclluding development of a national strategy, has been included in the LIL at government
request. The World Monuments Fund is providing some grant support for institutional strengthening and
additional grant funding will continue to be mobilized from other donors for this purpose.
Assistance through an ongoing or proposed Bank investment project. This approach was also
considered but rejected by Government because other investment operations have very different
objectives and institutional linkages that are not amenable to cultural heritage conservation. However, one
other investment operation -- the Social Development Fund, currently under advanced preparation --
could conceivably provide limited assistance in selected areas --i.e. local infrastructure improvement such
as road repairs, provision of basic social and economic infrastructure -- that might also benefit the
cultural heritage sites targeted for assistance in the proposed LIL.
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). This instrument was specifically requested by Government and
is supported here because it offers flexibility in testing and piloting new public/private partnerships in the
management of priority cultural heritage assets. The Government, in its request to the Bank, also
emphasized the need for a relatively rapid response to its needs in the cultural heritage sector and the LIL
is designed to provide a prompt response. Thus, it helps strengthen the overall dialogue with government
as well as Bank-client relations and serves as a convenient instrument to help catalyze support from other
donors. The World Monuments Fund, for example, is a co-financing partner (with about $100,000 of its
$600,000 contribution from a corporate grant from American Express Company) for the first time in a
Bank lending operation. Other donors are also interested in future collaboration and a specific strategy for
mobilization of such support has been discussed with Government during appraisal. In addition, the
performance monitoring benchmarks are designed in a manner to indicate whether the LIL has been
successful enough to help inform decisions regarding future Bank strategy in the sector; that is, whether
follow-on assistance for cultural heritage (either stand-alone operations or components of projects in
related sectors) may be justified as part of the country assistance program or whether a specific exit
strategy should be considered.
7



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank, and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                  Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Social fund and innovative social  Social Development        Under
service delivery                  Fund (RO-PE-49200)       preparation
Institutional Development and Child    Child Welfare Reform     S              S
Welfare                           Project (RO-PE-55495)
Rehabilitation of basic educational  School Rehabilitation      S              S
infrastructure                    (RO-PE-446 14)
Other development agencies
World Monuments Fund              Brancusi Monument
restoration; institutional
strengthening.
German Government                 Saxon village study.
Saxon Foundation                  Restoration of Harman
Evangelical Church.
Messerschmidt Foundation (Germany)  One Transylvania town
restoration (Sighisoara).
UNESCO                            World Heritage
designation;
Conferences.
Mihai Emanescu Trust              Saxon village studies.
Luxemborg Government              Rural tourism
development.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Since cultural heritage is a recent initiative in the Bank and the LIL is a new lending instrument, it is still
early for lessons from similar projects in this sector. However, lessons from preparation and early
implementation of the Georgia Cultural Heritage LIL are instructive. These include: (i) the value of
intensive upstream training of PIU staff in specific areas such as procurement, disbursement, financial
management, monitoring and evaluation, and general project management; and (ii) implementation of
8



project components/subcomponents should be phased so as not to exceed the PIU capacity in the first
year. In general, lessons from projects in the ECA region have shown that (i) Project Implementation
Units should be established as early as possible; (ii) a flexible implementation strategy and identification
and participation of the key players are essential for success; (iii) small, focused simple projects have a
better chance for success; (iv) community involvement and stakeholder participation build ownership and
capacity foir longer-term growth and success; and (v) NGO involvement is key to private sector
development.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership:
The Romanian Government -- Ministry of Culture supported by the Ministry of Finance and Prime
Minister's office -- requested a LIL for the Cultural Heritage project. A special Project Implementation
Unit has been established in the Ministry of Culture and an experienced individual was officially named
as Director. The Government is actively seeking assistance from other donors and intends to intensify
efforts to develop an improved, long-term national strategy for cultural heritage preservation that will
emphasize, among other objectives, new public-private-local community partnerships. This same spirit of
enthusiasm is evident at the regional and local government levels, particularly at the proposed project
sites.
S. Value Added of Bank support in this project:
Other organizations such as UNESCO, World Monuments Fund, Getty Trust, ICOMOS, Council of
Europe have provided help for cultural heritage preservation in Romania. With some exceptions (i.e.
World Monuments Fund, Getty) this money is invariably provided for technical assistance, and not
investment rnoney in actual restoration. The Bank is the only major donor that currently offers investment
as a part of a larger sectoral strategy, including efforts at social and economic development; this approach
is needed in transition economies such as Romania's where serious deterioration of cultural assets is
evident and growing; delays in conservation will either increase future restoration costs or cause
irretrievable destruction. Bank involvement will also help catalyze assistance from other donors and
strengthen the kind of partnership arrangements internationally that the Government seeks as part of its
long term strategy in the sector.
E: Summsary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
The project is expected to generate the following benefits: (a) More viable options for securing future
financial and institutional sustainability in the management of cultural heritage assets through the piloting
of different fee mechanisms and public-private management configurations, particularly at the Brancusi
monument site and at the Brancovan palaces; (b) stronger community involvement and support for
cultural heritage preservation as an important social and economic asset; (c) more cost effective
approaches for the preservation of cultural assets; (d) an updated, longer term strategy for the restoration,
revival and preservation of priority cultural heritage assets (monuments; natural heritage sites; non-built
or living culture such as dance, music, art) determined through a process of public consultation and
within a modernized legal framework that clarifies public/private roles. Such a strategy will, among other
things, help inspire new culture-based tourism development, infrastructure and services opportunities and
provide a cllearer focus for future Government budget discussions involving the nation's patrimony.
Efforts will be made to engage a local economic research institute in the development of appropriate
methodology -- i.e. contingent valuation -- concerning economic analysis at one of the project sites,
possibly Brancusi.
9



2. Financial:
Because of the LIL's emphasis on testing and experimentation, the monetary and non-monetary benefits
have not been analyzed comprehensively. The project will test several opportunities for initiating or
increasing revenues at several project sites -- i.e. the proposed new cultural center at the Brancusi
monument in Tirgu Jiu; conference and guest fees at the Brancovan palace facility (Mogosoaia); bed and
breakfasts or folk hotels in the Saxon village region. Preliminary socio-economic surveys indicate that
many people living in or near these sites are poor with limited opportunity for gainful employment during
the difficult economic transition. They will benefit to some extent from project investments but cannot be
expected to repay in financial terms. Nonetheless, efforts at partial cost recovery will be tested through
different fees and community contributions in labor and in-kind.
a. Fiscal impact: By helping to improve the management of cultural assets in a more cost-
effective manner through new public-private partnerships, the project will have a potentially
significant impact in (a) reducing public budgetary outlays over time and (b) stimulating tourism
in selected areas such as the Southern Transylvania region where the historic Saxon villages are
located as well in the historic route planned from Bucharest to the nearby Brancovan palaces and
to the Brancusi sculptural ensemble at Tirgu Jiu. In addition, formulation of a new longer term
national cultural heritage partnership strategy with defined national priorities and incentives for
new public-private partnerships should also have a significant future impact. The counterpart
contribution for the project from the central Government is estimated at US$1.3 million
equivalent (inclusive of estimated taxes), over four years, or about 18.8 percent of total project
cost including contingencies. The Government's share of the total costs is not expected to exceed
US$0.35 million equivalent in any given year.
3. Technical:
The project will, to a large extent, finance completion of restoration work already started at several
cultural heritage sites or initiate/revise and utilize technical assessments finished at others. For example,
at the main Brancusi sculptural ensemble site at Tirgu Jiu, the World Monuments Fund has already
helped finance detailed technical studies and initial structural analysis on the Endless Column. At the
Brancovan palace at Mogosoaia, restoration work has been substantially completed on the main structure
but just initiated at the nearby cultural center and guest quarters; technical feasibility studies have also
been completed. A feasibility study for the National Library is proposed as part of the institutional
strengthening component to determine the appropriate future use of the building. All technical feasibility
studies associated with the project have been, or will be, reviewed by the Bank as part of project activity
to confirm their acceptability with respect to technical, cost and other aspects. Environmental and social
analyses will be undertaken where required such as in the Saxon village component.
4. Institutional:
Executing Agency. The newly established Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Culture
will be the primary executing entity for the project. Several consultants are being competitively recruited
to support the work of the PIU. Since neither the Ministry nor the PIU have had experience with a project
such as this, substantial institution strengthening assistance will be required. Provision has been made in
the project, additional trust funds will be raised for this purpose, and the World Monuments Fund is
providing substantial start-up and ongoing technical assistance in this area. Details are provided in the
Project Description (Annex 2) and in the summary on page 5.
5. Social:
10



Social aspects will be addressed in the site development plans included in the project for the Brancusi and
Brancovan palace components. Emphasis will also be given to engaging local communities through
public information programs as well as through special consultation and participation efforts. A social
assessment, supervised by the Bank, is being carried out by local specialists in selected Saxon villages in
Transylvania, including assessments of tourism, craft development (i.e. design, production and
marketing), and small-scale agricultural development potential. This work will help provide a framework
for the community development program which will finance priority structural repairs, infrastructure
improvements, and income-generating activities such as crafts development and tourism. A primary
objective of the Saxon village component is to help encourage cooperation among ethnic groups
(Romanian/German/Hungarian/Roma (Gypsy) in the region and help strengthen institutional mechanisms
for community organization and participation. This will be essential for future cultural heritage
conservation and economic development efforts.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category  () A; (X) B;  0 C
The project has been reviewed and is designated as B classification (see Environmental Data Sheet;
Annex 7). Generally, the project is expected to have an overall positive environmental impact through site
management and conservation planning, landscape improvements, and a small community fund to
finance priority repairs in selected Saxon villages. Environmental reviews will be conducted as part of the
Brancusi site management plan and the community fund investments in the Saxon villages.
7. Participarory Approach:
a. Primary Beneficiaries and other affected groups: Local residents and officials at the key project
sites such as Tirgu Jiu, Mogosoaia, Saxon villages have been, and will continue to be, involved in
participatory discussions involving proposed renovation and conservation work as well future tourism
developmernt possibilities. Site development plans associated with each project component will include
community discussion and involvement as part of the process. A social assessment and community
impact study are underway or planned for the Saxon village area involving Romanian social scientists
and other specialists to, among other objectives, help identify beneficiaries and ensure that project design
is sensitive to the needs of other affected groups.
b. Other key stakeholders: Government of Romania, Ministry of Culture; Ministry of Finance; Ministry
of Tourism; Miniistry of Public Works; Ministry of Research and Technology; Department of Local
Administraltion; National Library, Evangelical Church; regional and local authorities; local artisans,
museums, and non-governmental organizations working with traditional crafts in the Transylvania area;
World Monuments Fund; Brancusi International Foundation; UNESCO; Council of Europe; Germany,
Luxembourg, Italy, Sweden, Netherlands.
Preparation      Implementation  Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups  COL           COL              COL
NGOs                         IS; CON           IS; COL          IS; COL
Local/Regional Administration   IS; COL       IS; COL          IS; COL
Academic/Research Institutes    COL           COL              COL
Other Donors                 IS: CON: COL    IS: CON: COL    IS: CON: COL
Note: IS= information sharing; CON= consultation; COL=collaboration
11



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Several key assumptions underlie the issue of project sustainability: (a) Local communities at the project
sites can be galvanized to support renovation work and, take sufficient pride in the restored heritage
results that they will provide requisite action to maintain sites and react creatively to tourism development
opportunities; (b) The testing of new fee mechanisms at cultural centers at the Brancusi and Brancovan
palace (Mogosoaia) sites will prove successful and lead to establishment of more permanent financing
support facilities -- both at project sites and elsewhere; (c) Pilot efforts at establishing new public-private
sector partnerships in cultural heritage management (i.e. Brancusi; Brancovan; Saxon villages) will, in the
fullness of experience, reveal appropriate models that can be replicated more widely in the society; (d)
Public awareness will help strengthen efforts to formulate and implement an updated, longer-term
national cultural heritage partnership strategy that sets future priorities within a reformed legal framework
and national and local authorities will support this effort.
The risks involved are significant and relate to the countervailing pressures of an
economy in transition that tend to focus official minds on crisis management; inexperience in a
largely state-controlled society with new private sector opportunities and responsibilities;
unfamiliarity or resistance by officialdom to the kind of information-sharinrg and open
consultation on public policy matters relating to cultural heritage preservation that are being
tested and promoted in the project. The proposed project has been designed with these risks in
mind and the LIL offers an unusual opportunity to test different approaches in the pursuit of
agreed reform objectives. Support for the project from key reform-minded officials in critical
agencies such as the Ministry of Culture and on important parliamentary committees gives hope
that the risks can be mitigated.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
1. Cultural heritage management and              M         1. Continue monitoring of pilot
preservation contributes to increased                      activities to ascertain best
income through tourism, craft development,                 experiences.
associated businesses, and general
economic growth.
2. Partnerships prove to be an attractive model   M        2.  Diverse partnership models
for cultural heritage management                           will be tested based on site
specific conditions.
3. Restoration sub-projects will be attractive   M         3. Public education program and
to tourists and conference participants;                  tourism/conference marketing
4. Willingness of partners to participate in     N        4. Institutional mechanism and
cultural heritage restoration;                            designed new laws to encourage
partnerships.
12



5. Macroeconomic outlook stabilizes and          S       5. IMF and Bank structural
budget support for MOC ensured in near-                  adjustment support.
term;
6. Government remains committed to cultural     N        6. Build broad based group of
heritage reforms and restoration, and                    stakeholders through social
supports a strong PIU.                                   assessment, consultation, public
awareness/education.
7. Local counterpart funds available in a       M        7. Included in annual budget
timely manner;
8. Project communities are able and willing to  M        8. Social assessments will identify
participate;                                             key issues and lay the
groundwork for community
participation.
9. Institutional partners continue to cooperate;  M      9. Ensure communication and
information flows and
inclusion.
Risk Rating .. H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible controversial aspects include the following: (a) Restoration of the endless column at the
Brancusi s,culptural ensemble involves a number of specialized technical issues relating to materials
used in the spine of the column and the modules that cover it. This has inspired discussion and
professional debate on appropriate options. To help resolve this, the World Monuments Fund will
convene a panel of experts to reach a consensus, in collaboration with the National Commission on
Historic Monuments, on these options and certify appropriate approaches consistent with historic cultural
conservatioin standards; (b) The Saxon village component involves a potentially sensitive issue involving
relations between Saxon people, Roma (Gypsy) people who have moved into the region in recent years,
Romanians, Germans, Hungarians and other ethnic groups. A social assessment, including community
consultation and participation, is underway to help address this and will be supplemented with a special
community impact study. Pilot villages have been targeted on the basis of initial demonstrations of
leadership iin helping resolve social issues; (c) as part of Institutional Strengthening, some foreign
specialists will be required to assist the newly created PIU in the Ministry of Culture. The costs of these
foreign technical advisers is an issue for the Ministry of Finance. In response, the Bank has made a
commitment to try to raise additional trust fund grants to partially support this technical assistance,
deemed important particularly during start-up of the project.
1. Covenants
a. A financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, will be established by June 30,
199'3.
b. A grant agreement between the Government and the WMF has been signed. However, if it
fails to become effective by March 31, 1999 the Bank reserves the right to assess the situation
13



and, if need be, apply the relevant remedies pursuant to the General Conditions applicable to the
Loan Agreement.
c. Payment of a front end fee of 1% of the loan amount is required to be paid on, or promptly
after, the Effective date.
H. Readiness for Implementation
(X) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are partly complete in a satisfactory
manner.
(X) The General Procurement Notice for restoration of the Brancusi sculptural ensemble in Tirgu Jiu
has been advertised in "Development Business" and local publications. Detailed technical work is in an
advanced stage. Other procurement work for the first year of work is being done.
(X) The Project Implementation Manual has been completed by the PIU in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
(X ) This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader:   Thomas A. Blinkhorn
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink
November 18, 1998
14



Annex 1
Romania - Cultural Heritage Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance         Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators             Evaluation
Sector-related CAS        Sector indicators:                              (Goal to Bank
Goal:                                                                     Mission)
To decentralize, improve  *  Increased number of  *  ESW reports          *  Cultural heritage
and help sustain the          partners involved in   (occasional)             management and
management of unique          cultural heritage   *  Institutional            preservation
cultural assets through       management;            assessment reports       contributes to
capacity building at the  *  New role for MOC;       (periodic)              increased income
central and local levels.  *  Local and regional                              through tourism,
governments actively                            craft development,
involved in                                     associated
management of                                   businesses, and
cultural heritage                               general economic
sites;                                          growth, social
*  Effective revenue                               cohesion.
collection
mechanisms (e.g.,
visitor charges) for
Operations &
Maintenance at
restored heritage
sites;
Project Development                                                       (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To demonstrate that public / 1. Up to 3-4 new    *  PIU reports;          *  Partnerships prove
private / community       partnerships formed and   *  beneficiary            to be an attractive
partnerships can effectively   working satisfactorily;  assessments (annual);  model for cultural
manage cultural assets in    2. Community cohesion   *  supervision mission   heritage
pilot sites.              and cooperation            reports;                 management
increased at pilot sites;   *  evaluation mission;
3. Newly acquired skills   reports (mid-term &
put to good use by         ICR);
beneficiary            *  ongoing social
organizations.             assessment
OSD PAD Form: November 18, 1998
15



Outputs:                                                                      (Outputs to
Objective)
1. Restoration measures     1. Site plans           *  PIU reports;            *  Restoration sub-
implemented and             implemented; assets     *  beneficiary                projects will be
partnerships for            restored as planned; local  assessments (annual);      attractive to
management established;     partnerships responsible   *  supervision mission     tourists and
for long-term               reports;                   conference
management; evidence    *  evaluation mission          participants;
of cost effective           reports (mid-term &    *  Willingness of
management of cultural      ICR);                      partners to
heritage at project sites;   *  ongoing social         participate in
assessment;               cultural heritage
2. Further deterioration of   2. Priority repairs   *  technical audit report     restoration;
cultural assets reduced;    completed; community        (annual);
community social and ethnic  groups organized and   *  Financial analysis
dynamics better understood;  working together in        reports (mid-term and
community action plans      Saxon Villages; new         final);
developed                  public and private
partnerships formed;
3. Professional capacity of   3. National cultural
MOC improved; cultural     heritage strategy
heritage framework         operationalized, up to 20
redefined; legislative and  professionals trained in
reforms completed; public   cultural heritage
awareness and educational   management; up to 5-6
materials produced and      new public / private /
disseminated; new skills   NGO partnerships
acquired within beneficiary   formed; implementation
organizations.             of legislative reform;
strengthened awareness
of the values of cultural
heritage in user surveys;
increased knowledge and
skills within community
and cultural
organizations (user
surveys); increased
public awareness and
support for Romanian
culture; modem
conservation methods
adopted and management
skills improved; new
management processes
and skills established
within MOC;
16



Project                  Inputs: (budget for                            (Components to
Components/Sub-          each component                                 Outputs)
components:              including
contingencies)
1. Restoration and Planning  1. US$ 5.5 million  *  Disbursement reports  *  Macroeconomic
of Cultural Assets:                                (quarterly)             outlook stabilizes
*  Progress reports       and budget support
*  Brancusi Sculptural     US$ 3.7 million          (quarterly);           for MOC ensured in
Ensemble;                                    *  Financial               near-term;
*  Brancovan Palaces       US$ 1.8 million          management system    *  Government
(Mogosoaia & Potlogi);                          audit reports (annual)  remains committed
to cultural heritage
2. Saxon Vililages       2. US$ 0.4 million                                reforms and
Development:                                                            restoration;
*  Community               US$ 0.4 million                              *  Local counterpart
developmrient program                                                   funds available in a
timely manner;
3. Cultural Heritage     3. US$ 1.0 million                             *  Project
Institutional Strengthening                                                communities are
and Capacity Building:                                                     able and willing to
participate;
*  PIU within MOC;         US$ 0.6 million                              *  Institutional
*  National strategy,      US$ 0.2 million                                 partners continue to
including upgrading                                                     cooperate;
national inventory
system
*  Public awareness        US$ 0.15 million
program;
Training,auditing
*  National Library      US$ 0.05 million
feasibility study
Total           US$ 6.9 million
17



Annex 2
Romania -Cultural Heritage Project
Project Description
The main objective of the project is to support Romania in its effort to develop an improved, longer-term
national strategy for cultural heritage preservation by testing different partnership approaches (public-
private; community-based as well as national-international) with a view to improving overall
management in a cost-effective manner and fostering financial sustainability through appropriate tourism.
The project would seek to achieve these objectives by (a) Rehabilitating the internationally famous
Brancusi sculptural ensemble in the town of Tirgu Jiu, two hours drive northwest of Bucharest; (b)
Renovating the Brancovan (18th century) palace at Mogosoaia outside Bucharest and completing work
on an adjacent cultural center and small hotel; supporting preparation of a site development plan and
some limited renovation at a second Brancovan palace at Potlogi; (c) Financing a feasibility study for the
National Library in Bucharest to determine the future of the poorly designed, partly completed new
library facility in the capital; (d) Undertaking a detailed social assessment in four medieval Saxon villages
in the Transylvania region with a view to determining options for sustaining the preservation of historic
structures (churches and dwellings) through such pilot activities as tourism (crafts development);
agriculture development; provision of assistance for a community development program to finance
emergency repairs on historic structures or high priority community infrastructure improvements, and to
support tourism, crafts development, and related pilot works; (d) Supporting institutional strengthening:
(i) Capacity building in the new project implementation unit in the Ministry of Culture including
procurement, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation assistance; (ii) formulation of an
improved long term national cultural heritage preservation strategy that will help establish future
priorities and help upgrade the national inventory; (iii) public awareness raising campaign to help build
stronger civic understanding of, and support for, the importance of cultural heritage in the nation's future
development.
A. Brancusi Sculptural Ensemble (US$3.3 million, base cost)
Background. The Brancusi Sculptural Ensemble is Romania's most revered national monument and
regarded internationally as one of the stellar artistic creations of the 20th century. It was conceived and
designed by the famous Romanian sculptor, Constantin Brancusi, a student of Rodin. The monument, or
ensemble as it is commonly called, consists of four discrete elements: (a) The Table of Silence, a large
circular stone table surrounded by 12 round stools located in a park near the banks of the river Jiu in the
community of Tirgu Jiu, northwest of Bucharest; (b) The Gate of the Kiss, a large limestone portal a short
distance in a straight line from the Table of Silence; (c) The Alley of the Seats -- 30 stone seats in groups
of three lining the axis of the path between the Table of Silence and the Gate of the Kiss; (d) The Endless
Column, a towering monument 31.5 meters (104 feet) high covered with cast iron, brass alloy plated
modules in the shape of huge hollow beads. The four works of art constitute one ensemble on an east-
west axis that spans 1.5 kilometers. Brancusi was born in Hobita, a village near Tirgu Jiu and was
inspired to do the ensemble by the horror of an event that is sacred in Romanian history -- the slaughter of
hundreds of young soldiers who were attempting to defend Tirgu Jiu in World War I. The ensemble,
conceived as a progression of spiritual contemplation, commemorates their sacrifice in an artistic
statement that speaks of the silence of death, renewal and rebirth through love, hope and infinite gratitude
symbolized by the Endless Column.
The Ensemble was built in 1937 in Tirgu Jiu (about 75,000 people), the capital of Gorj judet or county.
The town is situated in the Jiu valley near the foothills of the Carpathian mountains. The town, believed
to have been founded in the 14th century, and surrounding region contain many significant Romanian
18



historical monuments -- churches, manors, ancient fortified structures and houses. It is one of Romania's
most famous tourist sites and has the potential to be developed further as a tourism destination. The Gorj
region traditionally was a significant coal mining area. However,
most of the mines have proved to be uneconomic and have closed or are closing. Today the area suffers
from highi unemployment.
In the 1950s, the Romanian communist regime attempted to destroy the Endless Column for ideological
reasons. Cables were attached to its upper part and pulled by a large vehicle. Although the attempt failed,
the column was bent and connections between several of the modules covering the spine were disrupted.
Rain penetrated. the column and over the years caused extensive corrosion to the modules and inner spine.
At the initiative of the Brancusi International Foundation, based in Bucharest, the Endless Column (and
associated ensemble structures which are also deteriorating because of poor or inadequate maintenance)
was placed on the World Monuments Fund's (WMF) "List of 100 Most Endangered Sites." In 1994, the
Brancusi Foundation, WMF, Ministry of Culture, Getty Conservation Institute and other
local/international agencies collaborated on a program of research to determine the extent of the damage
and to draw up a detailed restoration plan. Some repair work was started but curtailed because of lack of
funding.
Project Component. Assistance will be provided to complete restoration of the ensemble and establish
appropriate local/national institutional arrangements to manage and maintain it properly. Work will be
carried out according to agreed plans that will be certified by an international panel of experts to be
convenecl and financed by the WMF under the overall management of the Project Implementation Unit
assisted by an experienced foreign architect, also financed by WMF. The work will be executed as
follows: (a) Restoration of the Endless Column. All 16 cast iron modules that covered the spine have
been removed to complete examination of the damage. The next step is to test and define the technology
(appropriate brass or copper alloys) to restore metallization of the modules. The inner pillar, made of
rolled bars of iron and concrete, will also be tested through selective borings. Two alternatives for
restoration will be assessed: Restoration of the original iron/concrete pillar or replacement with a stainless
steel replica. The tests will be conducted and completed in about six months and a decision subsequently
taken about appropriate approaches. Completion of the work is expected to take about a year; (b)
Simultaneously, a site development plan will be prepared for restoration of the entire ensemble including
new landscaping, possible new cultural or visitor's center, repairs to the other structures (Table of Silence,
Gate of the Kiss,) which have suffered cracks, discoloration and some water damage and are partly
covered with organic growth. The plan will also examine longer term options for zoning around the
ensemble, renovation of the hotel and improvement of visitor amenities (i.e. cultural center)in the town.
Construction work will be carried out according to the Bank's competitive bidding/procurement
procedures. A local committee, appointed by the mayor of Tirgu Jiu, will work with the PIU, international
specialists and the Ministry of Culture's representative in the Gorj judet. A possible Brancusi maintenance
fund will be tested, drawing initially on visitor charges at the cultural center, local and foreign
contributions.
B. Brancovan Palace restoration. (US$1.7 million base cost)
Romania's Brancovan palaces are widely considered as the high point in classic Romanian architecture.
The "Brancovan" style of architecture, reflecting Oriental, Italian and vernacular influences, began in the
Walachia region at the end of the 17th century under the reign of Prince Constantin Brancovenau.
Located within an hour by car or public transportation from Bucharest, they are a natural destination for
cultural outings and a potential tourism destination. Rehabilitation of the palaces, which have deteriorated
through past neglect, is regarded by Government as a cultural heritage preservation priority that will re-
establish an important part of the nation's patrimony and provide employment possibilities in an
economically depressed rural area. The palaces are located in three communities: Mogosoaia, Potlogi and
Stoenesti. Government has requested assistance with the first two.
19



Mogosoaia is a Bucharest suburb, a rural village of some 9,000 people, northwest of the capital. The
village is known for its picturesque lake in the Colentina valley. The Brancovan palace complex lies on
the border of this lake and is surrounded by a large park. The complex includes the original palace which
has been largely restored, a church, a nearby conference center and small hotel, which are now empty,
the park with several 18th century greenhouses (all in serious disrepair). The crypt of Prince Bibescu lies
under ancient oaks on the southem edge of the park. Financing would be provided under the project for
the following works: (a) Installation of a fire alarm system in the palace and restoration of decorative
elements of the facade (carvings and paintings); (b) Completion of work on a nearby culture/conference
center (mainly utilities and interior finishing) and small hotel to accommodate up to 50 people; (c)
rehabilitation of perimeter walls, garden stonework (columns, benches, etc.), landscaping and
replacement planting of certain tree species, and restoration of the greenhouse erected by Prince Bibescu,
based on French designs. The complex has its own administrative body -- the National Cultural Center
under the Ministry of Culture -- which manages the facility and arranges a variety of cultural and
education programs for local people and visitors. New fee mechanisms will be tested in the restored
complex, and a community outreach program supported.
Potlogi. The palace in this town of about 12,000 once functioned as the seat of the Brancovan court. It
was built in 1698 by Constantin Brancovenau for his son. The two-story palace is situated in the middle
of an inner courtyard surrounded by high brick walls. In addition to the palace, which is in much more
serious disrepair than the one at Mogosoaia, there is a church, an entrance tower and ruins of other
structures. The Potlogi complex is administered by the Targoviste (capital of Dambovita county) National
Museum, under the Ministry of Culture. The project will finance a site development plan to determine,
among other things, future options for sustainable development and management of the complex. Limited
funding will also be provided for stabilizing the structure to prevent further structural damage and for
light restoration of part of the structure for adaptive use as an art gallery and/or crafts center.
C. Saxon Village Development (US$0.3 million base cost)
Background. The southern, southeastern, central, and northern regions of Transylvania have housed
more than 200 Saxon villages since the 12th century. Surrounded by the Carpathian mountains, these
rural, agricultural villages have remained intact over the centuries. The villages symbolize perfect
examples of medieval architectural patrimony, and include 150 fortified churches and beautiful parochial
or noble houses of high artistic value. However, the conditions of this Saxon heritage have been
deteriorating for some time due to out-migration of Saxons in large numbers to Germany prior to 1990,
lack of capital investments, and a period of difficult social and economic transition in which other groups,
including the Roma (gypsy) people, have immigrated to the area. With a dual aim to better understand the
social dynamics and potential of the Saxon village region, and to pilot approaches to community-based
development and tourism, the following key activities will be undertaken:
(a)    Social Assessment: The four Saxon villages of Mosna, Cincu, Viscri, and Biertan have been
selected as pilots, based on criteria such as high cultural and historical significance, location, high tourism
potential, local leadership, and demonstrated efforts at social integration. The objectives of the social
assessment and subsequent community impact studies are to: a) demographically characterize the village
communities and ethnic groups; b) identify major stakeholders and key social issues in each village; c)
improve understanding of existing social capital, resource development potential, and dynamics of
migration/settlement in the villages; d) strengthen the institutional framework for community
participation, development action planning, and intra- and inter-village cooperation; e) assess the
potential for reviving the once thriving small-scale agricultural base; f) assess the potential for cultural-
based tourism; and g) help identify priority community-based infrastructure needs, including emergency
repairs for historic structures or other priority improvements, tourism and/or craft development
investments. The social assessment and community impact studies will establish the foundation for the
20



proposed, demand-driven investments. The work will be undertaken in several phases; the initial social
assessments of the four villages will be completed before planned community development investments
are undertaken. A longer-term social assessment will be undertaken periodically as a learning and
monitoring tool throughout the project's life.
(b)    Community Development Program: A community development program will be supported to: (i)
finance urgent repairs to cultural properties of significance or high priority infrastructure improvements
identified by local communities; and (ii) support pilot efforts to explore financial sustainability options
through such activities as tourism (i.e. small bed and breakfast facilities), crafts development. Selection
and evaluation criteria for this community assistance will include, among others: i) property or assets of
significant cultural/historical value; ii) community consensus reached on priorities; iii) 10% community
contribution in cash or in-kind; iv) community willingness to oversee implementation, monitoring, and
future sustainability (with verifiable plan); v) investments in public structures to maximize social benefit;
and vi) demonstrated commitment to harmonizing community development efforts among ethnic groups.
D. Institutional Strengthening (US$0.9 million base cost).
Financing would be provided under this component to: (a) Help strengthen the newly created Project
Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Culture -- i.e. hiring of consultants to assist with financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation plus ongoing operations; management and staff
training plus study tours; (b) Assist in the formulation of an improved national cultural heritage,
partnerhsip strategy for the country that would examine appropriate institutional mechanisms, public-
private partnerships, legislative and regulatory framework, criteria for establishing priorities for
conserving built and non-built heritage, plus assistance for development/implementation of a national
heritage inventory; (c) public awareness campaign to help develop greater public understanding of, and
support for, the importance of cultural heritage preservation; (d) feasibility study to determine the best
future use for the partly completed, poorly designed National Library structure in Bucharest. The Bank
has agreed to try to mobilize trust funds to help support a long-term development plan for the library
system, focusing on improved management, cataloguing and computerization, capacity for restoring and
preserving historic manuscripts, and new community outreach programs.
21



Annex 3
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Local         Foreign        Total
1. Project Component
A. Brancusi Sculptural Ensemble Restoration   1.0            2.3            3.3
B. Brancovan Palace Restoration               0.5            1.2            1.7
C. Saxon Village Development                  0.1            0.2            0.3
D. Institutional Strengthening                0.6            0.3            0.9
TOTAL BASELINE COST                   2.2            4.0           6.2
Physical/Price Contingencies                  0.2            0.5            0.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   2.4            4.5            6.9
Includes estimated Government taxes
OSD PAD Form: November 18, 1998
22



Annex 4
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Financiers                       Local       Foreign       Total       % of Total
IBRD                              1.0         4.0          5.0            72
World Monuments Fund              0.1          0.5          0.6            9
Government                        1.3                       1.3           19
Total                             2.4          4.5          6.9           100
23



Annex 5
Romania - Cultural Heritage Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A) The Project Implementation Unit will be responsible for
managing procurement for overall project management and coordination. Procurement specialists
would assist the PIU in development of technical specifications and bidding documents.
Technical guidance will be provided by an experienced architect financed by the World
Monuments Fund. Procurement of civil works, goods, and services would be in accordance with
the World Bank's "Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits" dated
January 1995, revised January and August 1996, and September 1997 and "Selection and Use of
Consultants" dated January 1997 and revised September 1997. During the proposed project
launch mission in February 1999, the Bank will conduct a procurement workshop to present and
explain procurement guidelines and help finalize specific bidding documents for issuance.
The PIU, with the assistance of the Bank, has recruited two persons to serve in the capacity as
procurement officers. They will undergo training in Bank procurement guidelines, policies and
procedures. The main responsibility of the procurement specialists will be to (a) prepare and
submit to the Bank all procurement documents which require the Bank's prior review; (b) carry
out any procurement-related activities at the central level and; (c) prepare and submit to the Bank
at the beginning of each calendar year a detailed procurement schedule. A general procurement
notice was published in the Development Business Journal on August 31, 1998.
1. Civil Works: (about US$5.7 million) - would be used for the restoration of the Brancusi
Ensemble, improvements at Mogosoaia and Potlogi Palaces; and Community Program activities
in four Saxon Villages. The following methods will be followed.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for four contracts each
estimated to cost US$500,000 or more: (a) the restoration of the Brancusi Endless Column; (b)
restoration of the stone sculptures and the landscaping activities at Brancusi; and (c)
rehabilitation of the Mogosoaia and Potlogi Brancovan palaces. Approximately US$ 4.87 million
will be procured under ICB. A specialist financed by the World Monuments Fund will help
supervise the construction activities under this component.
Minor Works (MW) procedures will be used to finance a small number of packages each less
than US$50,000 for minor works in the four Saxon villages; the number of packages for Saxon
villages would be determined on demand. Approximately US$ 0.4 million will be procured under
MW.
2. Goods: (about US$0.38 million).
National shopping (NS) procedures would be used for the procurement of office equipment,
computers and office supplies for the establishment of the Project Implementation Unit. There
would be four or five packages not to exceed about US$ 75,000 each. A vehicle estimated to cost
US$ 20,000 for the PIU would also be procured using NS.
24



3. Cosuultant Services and Training: (US$ 0.75 million) the following procurement methods
would be used.
Consultant Qualifications(CQ): This method would be used to procure consultant services for the
design and implementation of (a) a Public Awareness Campaign for the promotion of Romania's
cultural heritage both nationally and internationally. This method is proposed since these
activities are highly specialized and previous experience in this field would be essential to
maximriize the benefits. Firms with previous experience in promoting art and culture and the
tourisrn industry will be requested to submit proposals. The TORs would also require that the
consultants provide appropriate materials and designs of tourism promotional material; (b)
National Library feasibility study .This method is proposed because of the highly specialized area
of investigation to study various options to determine the fate of the existing National Library
structure; (c) Feasibility study of the Mogosoaia and Potlogi Palace renovations. This method is
proposed for specialized consulting firms undertaking cultural heritage improvements. The
estimated aggregate amount under this method of procurement for consultant services is
US$280,000. A specific procurement notice will be issued in the UN Development Business
Journal as well as in a local newspaper with wide circulation. A short list of firms would be
prepared from those firms that have expressed interest.
Indiviclual Consultants (IC): This method would be used for the selection of local consultant
services for the PIU in the areas of project management, procurement, disbursement, monitoring,
engineering, architecture, accounting, computer specialists, and interpretation (total not to exceed
about US$380,000). Foreign advisors will work in the area of monitoring and evaluation and
financial management, & accounting/financial management. Local lawyers would also be
procured to help prepare draft reform legislation to be included in the national strategy.
Least Cost Selection (LC): This method would be used for the selection of consultants that carry
out standard or routine assignment such as audit services where well established practices and
standards exist. The estimated aggregate value is US$40,000.
Single Source Selection (SS): This method would be used for the procurement of consultant
services such as social assessment and impact studies. The estimated aggregate value for these
services is US$50,000.
1)    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Table A)
2)    Consultant Selection Arrangements (Table Al)
3)    Prior Review thresholds (Table B)
4)    Procurement Schedule (Table C)
5)    Procurement Information (Table D)
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of the loan proceeds is given in Table C.
25



Special Account and Statement of Expenditure (SOEs)::
To expedite disbursements, the Government will open a Special Account for the
project in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation
amounts to US$500,000. Upon effectiveness the Government may request an
initial deposit of US$200,000. The remaining balance of US$300,000 will be
made available when the aggregate total of funds disbursed and special
commitments made amounts to US$1.0 million. Replenishment applications will
be submitted regularly and be accompanied by full documentation for all items
except those eligible for disbursements on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs). The following SOE thresholds apply.
Civil Works: Contracts amounting to less than US$ 50,000 equivalent
Consulting Services - Firms: Contracts amounting to less than US$ 100,000
equivalent
Consulting Services - Individuals: Contracts amounting to less than US$ 50,000
equivalent
Goods and Training: All contracts
Retroactive financing of up to US$150,000 will be provided for eligible
expenditures on civil works, goods, consulting services and training for the
initiation of the project activities since September 1, 1998 until effectiveness.
26



Annex 5
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         MW         Other/I    N.B.F/2
1. Works                        4.87         0.83                                  5.70
(3.80)      (0.40)                                (4.20)
2. Goods                                                 0.30        0.08          0.38
(0.30)                   (0.30)
3. Consultant Services and                               0.50        0.25          0.75
Training
(0.50)                   (0.50)
4. Incremental operating                                             0.12          0.12
Costs: office supplies,
equipment, salary, insurance,
drivers, maintenance, fuel
Total                         4.87        0.83         0.80       0.45          6.90
(3.80)      (0.40)      (0.80)                    (5.00)
Figures may slightly differ due to rounding.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
/1 Other means National Shopping (NS) for goods; CQ for Consultancy services; IC for Consultancy services; Least Cost
Selection (LC); Single Source Selection (SS)
/2 N.B.F,: Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing through World Monuments Fund,
consultancies under trust funds).
OSD PAD Form: November 18, 1998                                                                         27



Annei 5
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services             Selection Method                 Total
Expenditure Category                                            (including
Contingencies)
SS      IC    LCS.    CQ    N.B.F.
A. Firms                0.05            0.04    0.28                0.37
B. Individuals                  0.38                                0.38
Total           0.05    0.38    0.04    0.28    =          0.75
Figures may slightly differ due to rounding
SS   Single Source Selection.
LCS = Least Cost Selection.
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications.
IC = Individual Consultants.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
28



Annex 5
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ millions                              US $ millions
1. Works                      5.7
Contracts of             ICB                 All ICB
US$ 500,000 or more
Contracts below           NCB              First 2 Contracts
US$ 500,000
2. Goods                      0.38                  NS              First 2 Contracts
Up to US$ 75,000
3. Consultant Services,       0.75
Training & Audits
Firms less than        CQ/SS/LCS
uS$ 100,000
Individual Consultants        IC
Less than US$ 50,000
4. Incremental                0.12            Based on Annual
Operating (Costs                                  Budget
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  5.8
29



ANNEX 5
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ millions)
Expenditure Category                  Amount                   Financing Percentage
1. Works                                          3.69          80% of expenditures
2. Goods                                          0.30          100% of foreign expenditures
I100% of local expenditures (ex-factory);
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Consultant Services and Training               0.50          100%
4. Unallocated                                    0.51
Total                           5.00
30



Annex 5
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Table D. Procurement schedule
(US$ millions)
ai                                   PrigfEsted  Number  Proculrement   Date of  issuance of  Submlsslon  Signing        Contrac|
5N'1.,,,Al,)'"    Va eof          f -  _        Mehod           GPN            Invkt&n                of Bds         of              Comktdon
.z -   t2.>1"< -;. Z w1ntruct  r-UL;#ggc3                       Ufavff;
A. Goods
I. Vehicle            0.02             I             NS                             12/10/98               1/10/99        2/15/99        3/15/99
2. Computers/
off. equipment     0.36            5             NS                             12/10/98-2/1/99        1110/99-3/1i/99  2/15/99-411/99  8/16/99
B. Works
1. Restoration        2.86             1             ICB            7/30/98        2/11/99                4/12/99         7/1/99         3/9/00
Endless Column
2.  Restoration of     0.77             1            ICB            7/30/98         5/12/99                6/28/99        10/18/99        2/20/00
Stone sculpture
3. Restoration         1.60            2             ICB            7/30/98         4/15/99                5/15/99        7/19/99         1/15/00
Mogosoaia & P'otlogi
palaces
4. Minor works in      0.41            TBD           MW                             4/15/99                5/30/99        7/30/99         1/15/(0
Saxon villages
C. Service (Technical Assistance)
1. Feasibility study for 0.05          2             CQ             7/30/98         1/11/99                2/11/99        4/19/99         5/20/00
National Library
2. Feasibility stidy for 0.02           I            CQ             7/30/98         1/11/99                2/11/99        4/19/99         5/20/00
Mogosoaia & Potlogi
Palaces
3. Public Awareness   0.02              I            CQ             7/30/98         02/1/99                03/9/99        01/5/99         02/1/00
4  Nat'l cult. heritage   0.22          1            IC             7/30/98         12/18/98                               1/18/99
Strategy
5. Ind. Consultant     0.35            9             IC             7/30/98         12/18/98                               1/18/99
6. Auditing            0.04             I            LCS            7/30/98         12/18/98                               1/18/99
7. Soc. Asses/lmp.Stud. 0.05            1            SS             7/30/98         12/18/98                               1/18/99
D. Recurrent Costs
1. Operation &        0.09
Maintenance
2. Personnel           0.02
Inc.opert. costs
TOTAL                  6.9
* Restoratiotn o' palace include minor civil works
ICB    = International Completitive Iliddinlg        NS      = National Shopping                                  R1l:l    = Request for l'roposal
IC     = Individual Constiltant                      CQ       = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications     MW     = Minor Works
SS     = Single Source                               Gl'N    = Gcencral Procurement Notice                        l.CS    = I.east Cost Selection
OSD PAD Fonr: November 18. 1998                                                                            31



Annex 5
Romania: Cultural Heritage Project
Table E: Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Procurement of Goods                      ICB                 NCB                                        NS               Other Methods
1. Procurement method thresholds     >US$500,000          <US$500,000                                <US$75,000
2. Prior Review                           All                First two                                 First two
Procurement of Consultant Services    QBS    QCBS        Least Cost          SS               CQ                     Individual
1. Procurement method thresholds                        <US$50,000       <US$50,000      <US$100,000                <US$50,000
2. Prior Review                                          All TORs         All TORs            All          All TORs and First two contracts
3. Ex-post Review                                         First two        First two                             All other contracts
contracts       contracts
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
1. PIU to recruit qualified procurement staff with prior experience in World Bank procurement procedures: PIU will have primary responsibility for overseeing
implementation of procurement procedures.
2. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:   3. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the
On-going                                                                         first year ready by negotiations? No, draft bidding documents will
be ready by negotiations.
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
1. Estimated date of Project  2. Estimated date of General    3. Indicate if contracts are  4. Domestic Preference for Goods:
Launch Workshop:             Procurement Notice            subject to mandatory SPN in                  Yes
Februar, 1999        |publication:   August 31,    Development Business: All
February, 1999  1998                          contracts above US$200,000
5. Retroactive financing:   Yes, US$150,000                                                       6. Advanced Procurement: No
7. Procurement Monitoring System: PIU to report procurement actions in quarterly progress reports.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
1. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team  UNIT                                     Ext.
Seyoum Solomon                                           ECSHD                                       32393
2. Explain briefly the Expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Field Office staff to provide advisory support on procurement matters to PIU.
32



Attachement
Annex 5
Financial Management System
Accounting, Internal Control, Financial Reporting and Audit
Usage ofFunds and internal controls
I.    The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in the Ministry of Culture for the
implementation of the project will be responsible for the project financial and accounting. Since 1991 the
Government budgetary system has been patterned after the French Government's Model. Currently
financial accounts in the Ministry of Culture are managed by three departments - Accounting, Budgeting
and Investments. The functions of the staff in these departments mostly focus on verification of
procurement documentation (purchase orders, invoices, etc.) and confirmation that such expenditure is in
adherence to the Government budget. The PIU meets with the Ministry budgetary staff, as well as
Ministry of Finance staff, on a regular basis to discuss expenditure patterns and usage of funds. The
current process of budgeting and actual usage of funds is cumbersome but reflects strong internal controls
on a macro level. The internal controls in the PIU itself need to be addressed and processes need to be
changed. Currently, staff responsible for preparing invoices, salary slips, purchase orders (for small
items like stationary) are also responsible for preparing payment vouchers and recording these
transactions in the books of accounts. This system needs to be changed to segregate tasks. The person
who prepares invoices, Purchase orders or salary slips should be different from the staff responsible for
the cash transaction and there should be a different staff member responsible for recording these
transactions. This would comprise sound internal controls.
Accounting Systems and Financial reporting
2.    Tlhe PIU uses a computerized accounting system customized for the needs of the Ministry. This
system does not adhere to international accounting standards (IAS), the primary drawback being that it
does not incorporate the "double entry" system of accounting. The Government has decided to mandate
the use of "accrual basis" of accounting. This is in line with the international accounting standards and
would facilitate the use of a single system for maintaining accounts both for the Ministry and for the
project according to the Bank's requirements.
3.    The PIU recognizes the need to implement a new accounting system for the management of the
project and is in the process of reviewing its options. Three systems are currently being considered. All
three are certified for compatibility to the IAS. The selection would be based on the cost of the system
and the ability of these systems to generate reports pertaining to sources and uses of project funds,
statement of accounts and procurement monitoring reports. The bank would have no objection to the PIU
using any of these systems. It is expected that the selected system would be purchased and installed at
the PIU during 'December, 1998 with a training program to follow the installation. Consultants would
provide "hands-on" assistance to the PIU to develop a working system during the first year of
implementation on a regular basis. This would facilitate the PIU to produce the requisite Project
Management Reports on a quarterly basis.
OSD PAD Form: November 18, 1998
33



Staffing
4.     The PIU is well staffed for maintaining the necessary books of accounts as required by the
current environment. However, there is a need to bring in an experienced accountant who has been
exposed to an accrual system of accounting and lAS. The PIU, with the Bank assistance, has hired an
experienced financial manager.
External Auditors:
5.    The project will be audited each fiscal year in accordance with Bank guidelines by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Bound copies of the audit report will be submitted to the Bank within
three months of the close of the country's fiscal year. Auditors have not been selected as yet but a
selection process will be underway before the project is effective. Given that all the major international
auditing firms are represented in Romania, the selection of auditors acceptable to the Bank should not be
difficult.
Conclusion:
6.     The basic principles necessary to develop a sound project financial and accounting systems are
well in place in the implementation agency. Weaknesses that exist in the areas of internal controls,
accounting systems and staffing are being reviewed and a remedial program put in place to ensure
satisfactory project start-up and implementation.
34



Annex 6
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                            Planned                Actual
(Draft PAD Stage)           TBD
$60,000
B. Project Schedule                          Planned                Actual
3.5 Months
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  3.5 months
First Bank mission (identification)       06/28/ to 7/11      06/28/ to 7/11 1998
1998
Appraisal miission departure              10/11-21/1998            10/22/98
Negotiations                               11/9 -10/1998         11/12-13/1998
Project Approval                            12/14/1998            _/_/19_
Planned Date of Effectiveness                1/25/99               _/_/19_
Prepared by: Ministry of Culture and World Bank Team
Preparation assistance: LIL Team; New Products staff (Chandler); World Monument Fund;
Swedish, Italian, Dutch, Swiss Governments.
Bank staff or consultants who worked on the
project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Thomas A. Blinkhorn                        Task Team Leader
Rohan Selvaratnam                         Operations Analyst
Betsy McGean                              Social Scientist
Roberto Fabbro                     Architect/Engineer (Consultant)
Seyoum Solomon; Dev Singh             Procurement Specialists (Consultants)
Dan Petrescu                  Information Specialist (Resident Mission)
Evan Meyer                       Operations Analyst (Consultant)
Marie-Noel Ettori               Institution Specialist (Resident Mission,
Consultant)
Maurizio Ragazzi                            Legal Counsel
Rohit Mehta                        Senior Disbursement Officer
Mona Malhotra                     Operations Assistant (Consultant)
Ramendra Basu                      Financial Management Specialist
Anirudha Mukerjee              Financial Management Specialist (Consultant)
Claes Fjellner                   Accounting Specialist (Consultant)
35



Annex 7
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Environmental Data Sheet
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country:                      Romania                Project ID No:        RO-PE-58284
Project Name:                 Romania Cultural       Total Project Cost:  6.9 Million
Heritage Project
Appraisal Date:               10/12/98
Board Date:                   12/14198               Team Leader:          Thomas A. Blinkhorn
Managing Unit                 ECSSD                  Sector                ECSSD
Est. date for receipt of EA by  N/A
Bank:
EA Category (A/B/C):          B                      Date Assigned:        12/14/98
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated: 8/14/98
Major Project Components:
* Support for the renovation and restoration of the internationally acclaimed Brancusi Sculptural Ensemble in the town
of Tirgu Jiu, northwest of Bucharest.
e  Assistance to help (i) complete restoration of the 18' century Brancovan Palace at Mogososaia and (ii) develop a site
development plan and community support program for another Brancovan palace at nearby Potlogi.
*  Support for a program to test pilot efforts in.selected historic Saxon Villages in the central Transylvania region
through a community repair fund deternine options for sustaining cultural preservation and promoting social
cohesion through tourism development and/or small-scale agriculture improvements.
*  Assistance for Institutional Strengthening
Major Environmental Issues:
None
Other Environmental Issues:
There will be some restoration construction work at some project sites of a very minor nature and will be
examined through the site development plans. There may be some asbestos material that may need to be handled and
disposed of properly. Another issue is worker safety in preventing old structures and walls from collapsing during
renovation process.
Proposed Actions:
Actions will be developed and described in detail in site management plans. In the community priority fund
infrastructure rehabilitation investments will be screened using a best practice environmental checklist used in Social
Investment Funds (SIF).
Just ification/Rationalefor Environmental Category:
Generally, the project is expected to have an overall positive environmental impact through site management and
conservation planning, landscape improvements, small fund to finance priority repairs in selected Saxon villages.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment:
N/A
36



Signed by:                                        Signed by:
Thornas A. Blinkhom                 Michele E. de Nevers
Task Team Leader                  Environment Sector Leader
I________________________________________           .                               December 10, 1998
37



Annex 8
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference Between
expected and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions       disbursements at
Project ID          Loan or Credit   Fiscal  Borrower                              Purpose                               IBRD          IDA       Cancellat  Undisburs   Orig.       Frm.
No.             Year                                                                                                         ion        ed                      Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 36
Active Loans
RO-PE-34213        IBRD42580        1998    GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                  GENERAL CADASTRE                         25.50        0.00      0.00       25.50        0.00       0.00
RO-PE 44614        IBRD42130        1998    ROMANIA                                SCHOOLS REHABILITATION                   70.00        0.00      0.00       70.00        2.50       0.00
RO-PE-39250        IBRD41780        1997    GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                  SECOND ROADS                             150.00       0.00      0.00       144.68       -.32       0.00
RO-PE-8778          IBRD40790       1997    ROMANIA                                BUCHAREST WATER SUPPLY                   25.00       0.00       0.00       22.63        7.63       0.00
RO-PE-8793         IBRD40960        1997    ROMANIA                                HIGHER EDUCATION                         50.00       0.00       0.00       48.50       26.67       0.00
RO-PE-8795          IBRD41760       1997    GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                  ASAL                                     280.00      0.00       0.00       80.00        0.00       0.00
RO-PE-8795         IBRD41761        1997    GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                  ASAL                                     70.00        0.00      0.00       65.17        0.00       0.00
RO-PE-36013        IBRD39760        1996    SNCFR                                  RAILWAY                                  120.00       0.00      0.00       116.95      42.30       0.00
RO-PE-8773          IBRD8773        1996    ROMANIA                                FESAL                                    170.00       0.00      0.00       20.00       100.00       0.00
RO-PE-8773          IBRD39751       1996    ROMANIA                                FESAL                                    90.00        0.00      0.00       46.09       100.00      0.00
RO-PE-8773          IBRD39752       1996    ROMANIA                                FESAL                                    20.00        0.00      0.00        16.52      100.00       0.00
RE-PE-8794          IBRD39360       1996    RENEL                                  POWER SECTOR REHABILIT                   110.00       0.00      0.00       105.04      76.39        0.00
RO-PE-8776         IBRD38490        1995                                           EMPOY.&SOCIAL PROTE                       55.40       0.00      0.00       54.05       36.73        0.00
RO-PE-8774         IBRD37350        1994    GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                  INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT                   175.00       0.00      0.00       135.15      124.17      43.67
RO-PE-8777         IBRD37230        1994    GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                  PETROLIUM SECTOR REHAB.                  175.60       0.00      0.00       134.13      113.19       0.00
RO-PE-8784         IBRD37240        1994    REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA                    EDUCATION                                 50.00       0.00      0.00       38.34        5.37        0.00
RO-PE-8771          IBRD35930       1993    MOT                                    TRANSPORT                                120.00       0.00      0.00        .86         -5.14       0.00
RO-PE-8759         IBRD34090        1992    MOF                                    HEALTH SERVICES REHAB.                   150.00       0.00      0.00       45.00       44.95       44.95
RO-PE-8772         IBRD34860        1992    ROMANIA                                PRIVATE FARMER &ENT                      100.00       0.00      0.00         .66         .65        0.00
TOTAL                                                                                                                      2,006.50      0.00      0.00      1,169.27     775.09      88.62
Active Loans             Closed Loans              Total
Total disbursement (IBRD and IDA):                            815.02                  2,811.29                  3,626.41
of which has been repaid:                            16.54                  2,216.55                 2,233.09
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                             1,989.96                    594.84                  2,584.80
Amount sold:                                                    0.00                     19.78                     19.78
of which repaid:                                             0.00                      19.78                     19.78
Total Undisbursed:                                          1,169.27                      0.00                  1,169.27
a. Intended disbursement to date minus actual disbursement to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 14: see OD 13.05 Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly
Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U.= unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month
38



Annex 9.
Romania Cultural Heritage Project
Romania at a glance
Europe  Lower-
&
POVERTY ancl SOCIAL                                                  Central middle-
Romania     Asia  Income
Populaton mid-1997 (millions)                                  22.5     478    1,125
GNP per capita 1997 (Atlas method, US$)                       1,420    2,200    1,740
GNP 1997 (Atlas method, USS billions)                          32.1    1,050    1,962
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                                 -0.5      0.3      1.4
Labor force (%/i)                                               0.0      0.5      1.7
Most recent estimate (latest year available since
1990)
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)                      22
Urban population (% of total population)                        57       66       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                69       68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                        22       24       40
Child malnutnt on (% of children under 5)                         6
Access to safe water (% of populaton)                            ..       ..       75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                              ..      ..      20
Gross prmary enrollment (% of school-age populaton)              94     100      104
Male                                                           94     101      107
Female                                                        93      100      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995    1996    1997
GDP (billions IJS$)        ,                   -    47.6       35.5    35.2    34.8
Gross domestc investment/GDP                40.4     33.0      25.6    23.1      19.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..    22.9       27.4    27.4    28.2
Gross domestc savings/GDP                     ..    37.2       21.1     18.9
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..    35.9       21.4    18.8
Current account balance/GDP                   ..      2.9      -4.9     -7.3    -7.1
Interest payments/GDP                         ..      1.1       0.5      1.0
Total debt/GDIP                               ..    14.7       19.3    25.1      29.7
Total debt senricelexports                   0.0     18.7      11.5    12.2    21.8
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..        ..    22.3
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..        ..    78.0
1975-85  1986-96      1995    1996    1997
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         4.8      -3.4       7.7      3.9    -6.6
GNP per capita                               4.0     -3.3      13.7      3.5    -2.7
Exports of goods and services                ..       0.2      30.7      2.6      2.0
OSD PAD Form: November 18, 1998
39



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    196       1995    1996    197
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 ..       ..      18.5    18.1    18.0
Industry                                    ..       ..      32.9    34.2    35.6
Manulacturing                              ..       ..
Services                                    ..       ..      48.6    47.7    46.4
Private consumption                          ..    58.9      66.6    70.2    75.1
Generalgovemmentconsumpton                   ..     3.9      12.2    10.9    10.1
Importsofgoodsandservices                    ..    18.7      31.9    31.6    32.6
197645  1936-46      19SS     1t"     19"7
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 ..      2.4       4.9    -2.4      2.2
Industry                                     m     -6.5       6.8     6.8    -5.0
Manufacturing                              ..      ..
Services                                    ..    -5.0       11.1    10.5    -8.2
Private consumption                          ..     0.7      12.3    11.0    -5.6
General govemment consumption                ..     4.0      -2.4    -7.5   -11.0
Gross domestic investment                    ..    -3.2       1.5      3.9   -15.9
Imports of goods and serices                 ..     Z7       45.4    10.6    -1.1
Gross national product                     4.7     -3.5      13.1      3.8    -3.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. Aggregate data are to 1996. Figures in italics are for years other than those specifed.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wifl
be incomplete.
PRICES and GOVERNfENT FINANCE
1975     195     1996    1996    1197
Domestic prices
(X change)
Consumer prices                             ..       ..      32.0    38.8   154.8
Implicit GDP deflator                       ..      0.4      35.7    44.6   146.7
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                             ..    48.9       32.0    29.6    30.4
Current budget balance                       ..    29.7       2.7     1.4
Overall surplus/deficit                     ..    12.1       -2.6    -3.9    -3.6
TRADE
1975    1935      1995    9s"       1"7
(millions US$)
Total exports (fob)                         ..  10,174      7,g10    8,085    8,429
Textiles                                   ..       ..    2,065    1,734    1,941
Metals                                     ..       ..    1,513    1,266    1,656
Chemicals                                  ..       ..    1,001      882      745
Total imports (cif)                         ,,   8,402      9,487   1 1435   11,275
Food                                      ..    160         818     772      596
Fuel and energy                           ..   4,753      1,160    1,037     838
Capital goods                             ..   3,489      7,509    8,211    7,930
Export price index (1993= 100)              ..       ..      106      108
Import price index (19935100)                                105      104
Temsdof trade (1993=100)                    ..       ..      102      104
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1965      1"5    196       1997
(milffions USS)
Exports of goods and services            5,812   10,920     9,404    9,648    9,842
Importsofgoodsandservrces                5,858    8,S26    11,306   12,503   12,371
Resource balance                           -46    1,994    -1,902   -2,855   -2,529
40



Net income                                  -89     -613     -241    -309    -376
Net current nnsfers                          0        0       369      593     419
Current accot nt balance,
bere offcial capital transfers           -135    1,381    -1,774   -2,571   -2,4S6
Finanang items (net)                       103   -1,698      1,583    3,451
Changesinnetreserves                        32      317       191    -880
fem:
Reserves inoihding gold (mill. USS)        904    1,447      2,625    3,145    4,671
Conversion rate (bcabVSS)                                 2,033.4  3,082.6  7,167.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1#S      I995    193       1997
(mWens US$)
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisburseda          211    7,008      6,861    8,841   10,340
IBRD                                      19    1.633       844    1,009    1,292
IDA                                        0        0         0        0        0
Total debt servioe                           1    2,064       967    1,230    1,833
IBRO                                       0      274        53       63       98
IDA                                        0        0         0        0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Offlcial granits                           0        0        34      105        0
Oficial ceditors                          30      -61       707    1,224    4,381
Private crediitors                         0     -645       267    1,540    1,542
Fereigndir4ctinvtment                      0        0       419      263    1,224
Porffeio equity                            0        0         1       11      330
World Bank program
Conrmierit                               160        0       340      475      590
Disharsemnts                              18       49       129      223      387
Principal repayments                       0      148         0        0       28
Net fiews                                 1 9     -97       129      228     359
Interest pAMments                          0      127        53       63       70
N; transfers                              1 S    -225        76      165      283
Note: 1997 data are CMU preliminary estimates.                                                                         7/13/98
a. Total debt outstanding and disbursed for 1995-97 reflect data collected from the latest IMF mission. 1997 IBRD total debt, IBRD total debt service,
and
World Bank program data are preliminary from DRS.
41



22    -,                                                                                                                        2B"              ROMANIA2
- .                               ~~~~~~             ~~UKRAINE           t +hCULTURAL HERITAGE LIL
-48e                   ^    Sah         /         9       \     .          t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~'~~'  Sa~~BOTOSANI                                               SAXON VILLAGES
'-'''   TL               ;      R       0         :< C          A      A        X       Botoscini                                 0    VILLAGES
HUNGARY                                                                                                                                                                  0  CONT (JDT CENTERSX'  :9
YUGOSLAVIA    ~~~~              )4.   A,                                                                                   I Gaov  S I +  
(SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)Zo6b                                                                                                                                               2000DjJ           \     -GUGU?Clooi       -NSAT  ,
4A'~~~~~~~~me                                                                                                                                      Iasi !                          500TEERA     _w'2 
/      J     j              \      AleKOdriaS       { CiursU,>/          25    50    75KilomehEA                         2 
rbism pv=pm oc df v baMqBEir unoofEbswordrmnt   .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Si _]'  *_  i;   \  /    I      I      I   ~~~~~~~~  e ~~ z _ s0
AdI                                                                                                              IfCEAE 1d



