Report No. PID6856
Project Name                     Romania-Cultural Heritage Project (+)
[Learning and Innovation Loan]
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development
Project ID                       ROPE58284
Borrower                         Romania
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Culture
Mr. Sergio Nistor, Executive Director
Project Implementation Unit
Piata Presei Libere No. 1
Bucharest, Romania
Tel:     (401) 617-6110
Fax:     (401) 222-3255
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           September 14, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         October 12, 1998
Projected Board Date             December 15, 1998 (Est.)
Country and Sector Background
1.      Romania ranks as a lower middle-income country, with a GDP per capita of
some US$1,450 in 1995. Its population of 23 million ranks second amongst the
Central Eastern European states. The chemical, refinery, and machine-building,
metallurgical and synthetic textile sectors have a significant presence,
originally built in the communist period. Agriculture is the second largest
sector, accounting for about one-fifth of GDP and an estimated 35 percent of
formal and informal employment is dependent upon it.
2.      Poverty has grown sharply during the early years of economic transition
and remains a serious problem. Against this background, pressures have
increased on the country's social expenditures, including on the health and
education systems.
3.      Much of Romania's cultural heritage is in serious disrepair due to lack
of public financing and years of neglect. The constrained current fiscal
situation and competing demands for scarce public resources continues to limit
financial support for cultural heritage protection and management. Thus,
difficult choices need to be made about national priorities in the near term.
Government has decided that the historic central role of the state in
cultural heritage needs to be replaced with new partnership models with the
private sector, international donors, organized community groups, and civil
society at large. A strategy to achieve this objective is evolving.
Description
4.      The project includes the following five components:



a) Support for the renovation and restoration of the internationally acclaimed
Brancusi Sculptural Ensemble in the town of Tirgu Jiu, northwest of Bucharest.
The ensemble is one of Romania's most revered artistic complexes, designed by
the Romanian sculptor Constantin Brancusi, who was born near Tirgu Jiu and was
a student of Rodin. The investment involves highly specialized restoration
activities, including renovation of the Endless Column, Gate of the Kiss,
Alley of the Stools, and Table of Silence. It will also entail site management
planning, including landscaping and tourism development. This component has
been designated by Government as Romania's Millennium project.
b) Emergency assistance for the National Library in Bucharest. This would
involve, in the first phase, renovation/completion of two floors in the new
national library building, currently under construction, to permit immediate
storage of thousands of rare and historic volumes that are now deteriorating
in a moisture-laden underground garage in Bucharest as well as re-design of
the structure. The second phase of assistance would include support for
redesign of the new library, which has been partly finished in a substandard
manner, and assistance for a future fund raising strategy plus some essential
structural elements such as utilities (i.e. energy efficient heating and
electrical systems).
c) Assistance to help (i) complete restoration of the 18th century Brancovan
Palace at Mogosoaia and (ii) develop a site development plan and community
support program for a second Brancovan palace at nearby Potlogi, along with
assistance for structural stabilization. Both palaces are a relatively short
distance from Bucharest and are envisioned as part of a future historic
tourism route. Restoration work at Mogosoaia will involve installation of a
fire alarm system at the palace (almost completely restored), renovation of
the entrance hall, and completion of a nearby Convention Center and small
hotel.
d) Support for a Saxon Village and Transylvania development component for
pilot efforts in selected historic Saxon Villages to determine options for
sustaining cultural preservation and promoting social cohesion through
tourism, craft development, and/or small-scale agriculture improvements. Four
villages are expected to be involved, based on criteria which include
motivation among ethnic groups to work together. The program will include: i)a
social assessment as a learning and monitoring tool; ii) a small community
fund to support priority, demand-driven repairs of cultural assets; and (iii)
technical assistance for crafts development in the Transylvania region,
including market linkages.
e) Assistance for Institutional Strengthening involving (i) capacity building
in the new project management unit in the Ministry of Culture, including
training and study tours. (ii) formulation of a national cultural heritage
preservation strategy that will help establish future priorities and involve
possible legislative reform; (iii) public education and awareness-raising
campaign to help build stronger civic understanding of, and support for, the
importance of cultural heritage in the nation's future development;and (iv) a
monitoring and evaluation program.
Financing
5.      The total project cost is estimated at $6.7 million. This includes a IBRD
loan of $4.9 million (73%), government co-financing of $1.2 million (18%), and
$600,000 (9%) from the World Monuments Fund. Additional trust funds are being
- 2 -



raised.
Implementation
6.      Implementation will be carried out by a Project Implementation Unit in
the Ministry of Culture supported by local consultants and periodic foreign
technical advisors.
Sustainability
7.      Several key assumptions underlie the issue of project sustainability: (a)
Local communities at the project sites can be galvanized to support renovation
work, take sufficient pride in the restored heritage results that they will
provide requisite action to maintain sites and react creatively to tourism
development opportunities; (b) The testing of new fee mechanisms at cultural
centers (Brancusi) and Brancovan palace (Mogosoaia) will prove successful and
lead to establish of more permanent financing support facilities -- both at
project sites and elsewhere; (c) Pilot efforts at establishing new public-
private sector partnerships in cultural heritage management (i.e. Brancusi;
Brancovan; Saxon villages) will, in the fullness of experience, reveal
appropriate models that can be replicated more widely in the society; (d)
Public awareness and education efforts will help fortify the current
Government impulse to pursue a new national cultural heritage that sets future
priorities within a reform legal framework and political leaders(national and
local) will support this effort.
8.      The risks involved are formidable and relate to the countervailing
pressures of an economy in transition that tend to focus official minds on
crisis management; inexperience in a largely state-controlled society with new
private sector opportunities and responsibilities; unfamiliarity or resistance
by officialdom to the kind of information sharing and open consultation on
public policy matters relating to cultural heritage preservation that are
being tested and promoted in the project. The proposed project has been
designed with these risks in mind and the LIL offers an unusual opportunity to
test different approaches in the pursuit of agreed reform objectives. Support
for the project from key reform-minded officials in critical agencies such as
the Ministry of Culture and on important parliamentary committees gives hope
that the risks can be mitigated to some extent.
Environmental Aspects
9.      The project is proposed for "B" classification. Generally, the project
is expected to have an overall positive environmental impact through site
management and conservation planning, landscape improvements, redesign of the
National Library in Bucharest, small fund to finance priority repairs in
selected Saxon villages. An environmental analysis will be included for each
major investment, and an environmental checklist will be used for sub-projects
supported by the proposed community repair fund in the Saxon Villages.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
- 3 -



Thomas A. Blinkhorn; Task Team Leader, ECSSD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W., h-8-101
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-0282
Fax No.:                  (202) 522-3665
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 18, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



