         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



                                                                                                                  Report Number : ICRR0020034


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                             Project Name
 P079675                                                IN: Karn Municipal Reform

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 India                                                  Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-48180                                            30-Apr-2012                                                              310,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  14-Mar-2006                                           31-Mar-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           216,000,000.00                                                             0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            204,614,368.84                                                             0.00

  Actual                                                        204,614,368.84                                                             0.00




 Sector(s)
 General water, sanitation and flood protection sector(54%):Urban Transport(30%):Sub-national government administration(11%):Central
 government administration(5%)

 Theme(s)
 Urban services and housing for the poor(25%):Municipal governance and institution building(25%):City-wide Infrastructure and Service
 Delivery(24%):Municipal finance(13%):Land administration and management(13%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Victoria Alexeeva                   Kavita Mathur                       Christopher David Nelson             IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project development objective was to assist Karnataka in improving the delivery of urban services through enhancing the quality of urban
    infrastructure, and strengthening the urban local body (ULB)- and state-level institutional and financial frameworks for the delivery of urban
    services (Loan Agreement, p.19; Project Appraisal Document, p.3).
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     Yes


     Date of Board Approval
     15-Mar-2011


c.   Components
      Component 1: Institutional Development (appraisal US$28.4 million; actual US$16.2 million) was to support institutional capacity
      building activities for better transparency and accountability at the ULB and state levels in key areas and included computerization, urban
      land management and planning, financial management reforms, training to ULB and state-level staff.
      Component 2: Municipal Investment Support (appraisal US$90.0 million; actual US$74.9 million) was to provide performance-based
      loans and grants to ULBs outside of Bangalore for investments in urban services, covering water supply, urban roads, street lighting, slum
      upgrading, and other municipal functions such as solid waste disposal, sewerage, and storm water drains.
      Component 3: Bangalore Development (appraisal US$179.8 million; actual US$171.1 million) was to provide financing support for the
      rehabilitation of the Bangalore City road network (US$35.4 million); the construction of a sanitary sewerage system in the eight ULBs
      around Bangalore City (US$137.6 million), including institutional capacity building of Bangalore Water Supply Sewerage Board (BWSSB),
      as well as the construction of pro-poor sanitation facilities at the community and individual levels in the eight ULBs around Bangalore City
      (US$6.8 million). The scope of the Greater Bangalore Underground Drainage Program was revised during project restructuring in 2011 to
      exclude the financing of sewerage treatment plants and one pumping station to be financed by other non-Bank sources of finance, and the
      Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation Program was broadened from the original provision of latrines to include other sanitation/sewerage
      options, primarily household connections (this was to correct for the overestimated demand for toilets and to ensure the connection of
      toilets to the sewerage network).
      Component 4: Project Management (appraisal US$11.3 million; actual US$14.4 million) was support the project implementation,
      including incremental operating costs of relevant implementing units and a project development advisory facility to support preparation and
      implementation of subprojects by the ULBs.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
      Project Cost: The total project cost was US$277.1 million, which is slightly lower than the appraised estimate of US$310 million.
      Financing: The IBRD loan was disbursed at US$204.6 million as compared to the commitment of US$216 million. US$11.4 million were
      cancelled. There was no co-financing.
      Borrower Contribution: The Government of Karnataka, together with the ULBs and the Bangalore Water Supply Sewerage Board,
      contributed about US$73 million, as compared to their overall commitment of US$85 million at appraisal.
      Dates: The project closing date was extended twice by a total of three years due to delays in implementation. The first extension in
      January 2012 was for about two years from April 30, 2012 till March 31, 2014, and the second extension was in February for another
      year to March 31, 2015. The project was also restructured in March 2011 to re-define the scope of several sanitation/ sewerage activities
      under the third component and modify the project results framework.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     At appraisal, Karnataka had a population of about 53 million and was rapidly urbanizing at 34%. The state's urban governance was
     characterized by a mismatch between responsibilities for operations and maintenance (O&M) and financing of infrastructure and services, lack
     of accountability, weak local capacity, and excessive central controls, which affected the quality of urban infrastructure service delivery. The
     project was consistent with the Government's reform agenda in support of the democratic decentralization under India’s 74th Constitutional
     Amendment and the Government of India’s Tenth Five-Year Plan (2002-2007). It was to scale up the work on policy reform that had started
     with an ADB-financed operation in 49 urban local bodies (ULBs) and expand it to the entire state by adding 164 ULBs. The project
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



       development objectives remained consistent with the GOI’s 12th Five-year Plan (2012-2017), which envisioned increasing investment in urban
       infrastructure, strengthening urban governance and institutional capacity, and enhancing financial sustainability of urban local bodies. The
       objectives were in line with the World Bank Group’s Country Strategy for India for the period of FY2005-2008, which aimed at improving
       government effectiveness through governance reforms and improvement in basic service delivery in support of growth and poverty reduction.
       The project development objectives remained relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for India for FY2013-2017, which
       recognizes urbanization in its engagement area of transformation, including strengthening the institutional capacity of urban government and
       improving access to basic services in urban areas.




       Rating                                                                              Revised Rating
       High                                                                                Not Rated/Not Applicable


   b. Relevance of Design

       The statement of the development objective was clear. The investments in urban infrastructure in multiple cities and towns in the state of
       Karnataka and the state’s capital city- Bangalore (components 2 and 3), coupled with institutional strengthening at the urban local body (ULB)
       and state levels (component 1), were to assist Karnataka in improving the delivery of urban services. The causal link between the project
       activities, its intended outcomes, and the development objective was clear and convincing.
       The project design was complex; it combined an ambitious reform program with numerous municipal investments in various sectors scattered
       throughout the state as well as large investments in Greater Bangalore. The activities in Greater Bangalore represented 65% of the total project
       cost. Overall, this was a comprehensive project that involved a series of urban reforms and multiplicity of stakeholders, and required a longer
       time-frame than originally designed for completing all the activities.




       Rating                                                                              Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                         Not Rated/Not Applicable




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To assist Karnataka in improving the delivery of urban services through enhancing the quality of urban infrastructure and strengthening the
     ULB and state- level institutional and financial frameworks for the delivery of urban services.

    Rationale
    *A split rating is used in the assessment of the project's efficacy, as the key outcome target under the first sub-objective was revised during
    project restructuring in March 2011.



        1 Improving the delivery of urban services through enhancing the quality of urban infrastructure.


    Under the original outcome target: Modest.
    Under the revised outcome target: Substantial.

    Outputs
    Urban infrastructure in Karnataka state, outside of Bangalore:
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



   • 89 subprojects in road rehabilitation, storm water drains, water supply, drainage, 13 sanitation, and rainwater harvesting were carried
   out in 29 ULBs. The cost of subprojects ranged between US$150,000 and US$6 million. 18 subprojects were still under implementation
   by project closure.


Urban infrastructure in Greater Bangalore:

   • 308 km of main and trunk sewers and about 2,000 km of branch sewers and laterals were built; about 2,000 km of roads affected by
   the sewerage construction program were restored.
   • 152,167 sewerage connections were provided in Greater Bangalore and its poor peri-urban areas, exceeding the target of 120,000.
   By project closure, 132,761 connections were fully operational, and the remaining connections were to be completed within a few
   months after project closure. Delays were attributed to complex procedures for authorization and clearances from various state and
   central government agencies to acquire rights-of-way, lack of underground utilities maps (e.g., gas and water pipes, fiber optics), and
   difficult soil conditions.
   • 125 km of roads were built in Greater Bangalore; this was slightly below the target 140km as one road section was cancelled due to
   the construction of metro.
   • Pro-Poor Sanitation Program: Toilet and/or sewerage connections were provided to serve about 30,000 households in 101 slums, well
   above the project’s target of 10,000 households. 29,745 household connections of toilets to underground drainage were completed;
   12,457 connections were still to be regularized at project closure. The project team subsequently clarified that the corresponding paper
   work and/or financing was being completed by the utility (BWSSB) through its pro-poor unit that was created under the project and
   retained by the utility. The House-to-house awareness campaigns to improve hygiene practices and sanitation and wastewater disposal
   reached 15,778 households in 52 slums.


Outcomes

   • The municipal infrastructure services were delivered in 29 ULBs, which was below the original outcome target of 50 ULBs set at
   appraisal but close to the revised target of 32 ULBs.The original outcome target to reach at least 50 eligible ULBs was revised to 32
   ULBs during project restructuring in 2011, as all the funds were committed to 32 ULBs due to a performance-based financing for ULBs
   on a first-come basis. 2 million citizens are estimated to benefit from the improved municipal services, with an additional 500,000 urban
   residents to benefit when the remaining 18 subprojects are completed. ICR p.2 reports that no substantive changes in the number of
   expected beneficiaries took place since the larger subprojects would benefit more residents within the project-supported ULBs.
   According to the questionnaire administered by the Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development Finance Corporation (KUIDFC) to the
   ULBs involved in the project urban infrastructure and reforms initiatives, 75- 80% of the beneficiary ULBs found the project useful or very
   useful (50% or 15 ULBs out of 29 completed the questionnaire that assessed 10 different areas of support).
   • 610,000 residents of Greater Bangalore and its poor peri-urban areas (out of which 88,000 are poor) were estimated to benefit from
   the sewerage connections in operation by project closure.
   • Pro-Poor Sanitation Program is estimated to have benefitted 138,000 people. As a result of the program, 32 slums were declared
   open defecation free with 100% of residents having access to toilets with underground drainage and disposal. The study commissioned
   to assess the pro-poor sanitation component (Ghosh and Chature 2014) that involved focus group interviews (67 adults and 15
   adolescents) reported the following findings (a) increased access to toilets by the poorest households; (b) improved overall environment
   in program slums; (c) improved quality of life of the poor; and (d) sanitation and hygiene behavior change among beneficiaries. In
   addition, it was found that the pro-poor sanitation activities significantly benefited women, adolescent girls, and girl children living in
   these slums, in particular in terms of safety, convenience, and dignity as well as time savings in access to latrines/place for defecation.




Rating
Modest
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)




    Revised Objective
    ---

    Revised Rationale




    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Strengthening the ULB and state- level institutional and financial frameworks for the delivery of urban services.

    Rationale
    Outputs

          • A computerized e-governance platform was completed and fully rolled out to 164 ULBs (the remaining Karnataka's 49 ULBs were
          financed by ADB) for the following municipal functions: (a) Birth and Death Registration system that issued over 14 million digitalized
          birth and death certificates; (b) Public Grievance Redressal system that has processed over 1.7 million complaints; (c) Double Entry
          Accrual-based Accounting system linked to the budget process (including annual publication of accounts); and (d) the introduction of a
          GIS-based Property Tax system that has surveyed and assessed over 1.5 million properties in the project-supported ULBs.
          • A new Urban Finance Framework was adopted for the Karnataka state.
          • The accounting reforms, in the areas of budget, balance sheets, and annual performance reporting, were adopted in 158 ULBs (the
          remaining 6 ULBs were supported by the ADB Nirmala Nagara Program).
          • Training of over 25,000 staff (target 8,700 staff) was carried out at the state and ULB levels in 21 different areas of expertise, for
          which curricula and materials were developed (the ICR explains that the additional number of staff resulted from the combined counting
          of the ULBs and state-level staff).
          • 12 geo-referenced, large-scale maps were completed for land management purposes, covering over 1,000 km2, and another 16
          maps were being developed to cover an additional 2,106 km2 at project closure. This was substantially below the original target of 202
          maps (in terms of the total area, this was lower by 35%, as per ICR p.2); the delays were attributed to weak capacity of local providers,
          significant time to obtain clearances from the Ministry of Defense, and a last minute pull out from the Survey of India to engage in the
          activity. At mid-term review, the target was reduced to 49 maps (28 were financed by this project, and 21 maps were being financed by
          ADB).


    Outcomes

          • Over 18 million potential beneficiaries are estimated to benefit from the municipal e-governance reform supported under the project.
          The ICR p. 13 notes that this support was recognized by eight different excellence awards (such as Information and Communication
          Technologies excellence award, e-India and e-Governance awards, Best Urban Local Body award, and e- World award). All 164 project-
          supported ULBs in Karnataka undertook a series of institutional and financial reforms to better plan, manage, and finance urban
          services (the outcome target was identified as 50 ULBs participating in the institutional development TA and municipal investment
          support components). The ICR p.14 mentions such benefits as an increase in own source revenues (doubled from 2010 to 2015) to
          improve the financing (mostly operational expenses) of local services, and less financial leakages resulting from better bank
          reconciliations by using double entry accounting at the ULBs levels.
          • BWSSB continues to generate enough revenues to cover its operating expenditures; it's operating ratio is 1 at project closure, as
          compared to the target of 0.9. As for capital expenditures, the utility is still projected to depend on the government support in 2015-2020
          (ICR, Table 3.6, p.34).
          • The evaluation of training commissioned by the State Institute of Urban Development (SIUD) highlighted a positive impact in terms of
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



       the participants’ knowledge, skill, and attitudes. In some cases, there was a lack of adequate personnel to be trained at the local level,
       and it was found that training could have been more closely linked to the type of investments or activities financed by specific projects or
       programs. The ICR p. 14 recommended that more rigorous analysis on the impact of trainings be done to gauge the effect of the training
       program on the improvement of services. The ICR p.17 also noted that the implementation of the project’s training program through
       state institutions consolidated the SIUD as a nodal institution for capacity building in urban areas in Karnataka; it developed 17 core
       urban-related courses and trained over 100 trainers to continue building capacity on these areas, and is advising other states.




 Rating
 Substantial




 Revised Objective
 ---

 Revised Rationale




 Revised Rating
 ---




5. Efficiency

Economic and Cost Effectiveness Analyses
At project appraisal and completion, either cost-benefit or cost effectiveness analyses were carried out for different types of works with the
following results:
Bangalore urban road rehabilitation: An ex-ante economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was estimated at 33.1% for the overall urban roads
component and net present value of US$15 million with a discount rate of 12%. The analysis was carried out by HDM-IV model quantifying
benefits of reduction in vehicle operating costs, travel time, and accident costs. At completion, no ex-post cost -benefit analysis was done as
traffic and accident data could not be obtained from the time of completion of urban roads works in 2009, as explained by the ICR p.15. The
ICR p. 31 compares unit costs of rehabilitation works on the state highway road sections in Karnataka under the state highways
project, which are in the same range (urban roads are typically designed to higher standards and unit costs are higher).

Greater Bangalore Under Ground Drainage (UGD) Program: At appraisal, as per PAD p.63, a cost-benefit analysis was deemed insufficient to
value the full economic benefits of UGD project, therefore a cost effectiveness analysis was undertaken on the design of the UGD scheme to
ensure the least cost approach. This involved selection of sewage treatment plants locations to ensure least cost by using gravity conveyance
of sewage, use of storm water and PVC pipes, and selection of a design period of 30 years. The UGD program was expected to generate the
following benefits: (i) property rate/rent values increase; (ii) improvement in public health; (iii) pollution reduction; (iv) decrease in flooding and
overflows; and (v) cost savings from replacing septic tanks. These benefits were not quantified, only a field survey was conducted on a
sample of 40 households and realtors in the eight ULBs to assess the expected increase in property values, which was perceived in the range
of 7 and 60%. There was also a demand assessment study done to estimate the willingness to pay for improved sewerage in the eight ULBs
(PAD, p.64-65). At completion, the ICR followed the appraisal methodology. As for unit costs, despite cost escalation during implementation,
the actual cost of providing sewerage network connections at INR12,200 per household was found to be comparable to the estimates of the
High Powered Committee Expert Committee for comparable Class IC towns at INR11,700 per household as well as unit costs of sewerage
contracts awarded in 2015 under the Bank-supported National Ganga River Basin Project. As for the benefits, there was a property value
increase of about 35% (based on field interviews), and cost savings were estimated to be 19% in monthly sanitation expenditures from
replacing septic tanks, thus providing better services at lower costs (the average monthly domestic UGD network user charge of INR 57 per
month was about 13 INR lower that the average cost to a household for sanitary collection, treatment, and disposal without UGD
connection).

Greater Bangalore Pro-Poor Sanitation Program: Benefits of UGD in slum areas were identified based on case studies and focus group
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



 discussions with beneficiaries in the eight ULBs (Belliappa, S. and Chature, P., 2014). These included the increase in property values from
 INR250 to INR500 per sq.ft, savings in monthly sanitation expenditures for households, and time savings of average 1.5 hours per day. Based
 on these benefits, the ex-post ERR was estimated at 78% at completion.

 Municipal investments: An ex-ante EIRR could not be calculated as the municipal sub-projects had not been identified at appraisal. Standard
 economic methodologies were to be applied to appraise the projects during selection. At completion, a cost-benefit analysis was carried out
 for two largest investments in water and sanitation (sewerage) with an estimated ERR of 20% the water supply subproject in Nanjangud and
 an ERR of 34% for the Chintamani water supply augmentation sub-project. The unit costs for the new UGD network and rainwater harvesting
 were found to be comparable to other similar projects.

 Financial Analysis
 The financial performance of BBMP (responsible for roads), BWSSB (responsible for the Greater Bangalore sewerage investments), and the
 three ULBs (Chikkaballapur, Chintamani, and Nanjangud) were assessed at completion to determine their ability to operate and maintain the
 project created assets and service the sub-project loans. BBMP’s revenues and operating surpluses during 2009-10 to 2011-12 exceeded the
 appraisal estimates and BBMP is assessed to be capable of sustaining and expanding the investments. While BWSSB generates enough
 revenues to cover its operating expenditures; the financial forecasts for 2015-20 indicate that it will continue to need the GoK support for its
 capital investment program (ICR, p.34). BWSSB will need to improve its operational efficiency by decreasing non-revenue water (around 42%
 in 2012), implementing energy efficiency programs, and implement cost recovery tariffs. Chikkaballapur, Chintamani, and Chintamani will
 continue to rely on grant revenues to complement their limited own source revenues.

 The project experienced a delay of three years, mainly in the implementation of the Bangalore Development Program due to the late
 incorporation of the Greater Bangalore UGD Program into the project design. As a result, the preparation, tendering, and implementation of 25
 packages of the UGD works took place during the early stages of project implementation and the UGD works started four years after project
 effectiveness. There were also delays associated with acquiring rights-of-way under the UGD works, the weak ULB’s capacity and
 procurement issues under the municipal investment component. The total project cost at completion was slightly lower than the appraised
 estimate.

 On balance between the project's cost effectiveness and satisfactory ERRs (altogether corresponding to 63% of the total project cost) but
 delays in completion, Efficiency is assessed as substantial.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                 0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                              0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of Objectives is rated high, and that of Design is substantial. The project's achievement under its first sub-objective of improving the
delivery of urban services through enhancing the quality of urban infrastructure is rated modest in relation to its original outcome target, and
substantial in relation to its revised target. The second sub-objective of strengthening the ULB and state- level institutional and financial
frameworks for the delivery of urban services is assessed as substantial. Efficiency is rated substantial due to the satisfactory ERRs and cost
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



effectiveness but delays in completion.

The project rating under the original outcome target is Moderately Satisfactory, and under the revised target is Satisfactory. Using a split rating
with the disbursement share of US$75.29 million prior to the outcome target revision in March 2011 (37%) and the remaining US$129.31 million
(63%), the overall rating is Satisfactory.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Government commitment. The Government commitment to sustaining urban reforms is strong, which is demonstrated by launching three Urban
Schemes in 2015. In addition, the government has put several actions in place to minimize risks to sustainability, including formal approval by
the Empowered Committee (EC) to finance all the remaining project activities until their completion beyond the project closing date. The recent
recommendation from the 14th Finance Commission to triple the amount of transfers going to the ULBs would also be a contributing factor
towards sustainability of the investments.

Institutional capacity. The capacity building was carried out under the project through training of 25,500 staff and 132 trainers. The Government
has set up the Karnataka Municipal Data Society for continuing all the reforms undertaken by the Municipal Reform Cell (MRC). The Karnataka
Municipal Data Society will continue to support e-governance initiatives across all ULBs; host and maintain all online applications; engage in
capacity-building activities related to the reforms; and develop further online applications such as trade licenses, water tariff, asset management,
and building plan approvals. The ADB, through its ongoing urban operation (NKUSIP), will support these initiatives until 2017. Out of all the
institutional training activities, the utilization of the aerial maps is the only one that will require major efforts to ensure sustainability; this will be
also supported under the ADB ongoing operation.

Financial viability. In 2013/14, the total income of the BWSSB (including water and other–than water revenue) was INR 710 crore against INR
689 crore for all its current expenditures, indicating that the BWSSB generates sufficient revenues to cover its full O&M expenses (ICR, p.11).
Sewerage fees amount to 25 percent of the water fees, which would bring additional revenues once the billing of all the new connections is
regularized. In terms of the maintenance of the ULBs subprojects, while the ratio of their operating revenue/expenditure was used to determine
the size of the municipal investments, the O&M is still financed by the state in various cases, in particular for the ULBs that embarked on
complex 24x7 water and UGD projects in which the state agreed to partially subsidize the O&M costs for up to two years after construction. The
increases in property taxes would contribute to the maintenance of the investments through higher O&M budgets. As for maintenance of the
project-supported urban roads, the ICR p.33 reports that BBMP is capable of sustaining the investments.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     Project design was built on the urban sector reforms that had been undertaken by the ADB-financed operation in 49 ULBs, scaling them up to
     the entire state by adding 164 ULBs. Several lessons from similar operations were incorporated into project design, in particular aligning
     responsibilities for investment and O&M and aligning investments with absorptive capacity. Project preparation took over three years. The
     investments in Greater Bangalore were supposed to be processed independently but at the time of appraisal were combined into a single
     operation to respond to the request of the Government. The Bank QAG’s assessment of the project under Quality Assessment of the Lending
     Portfolio (QALP) underscored the additional complexity resulting from the late addition of UGD investments to the project, making it both a
     municipal development project and an infrastructure project.

     A number of the following shortcomings were noted by the ICR p.19: (a) a number of risks were underestimated, in particular related to the
     complexities of institutional arrangements, including in coordination of complementary investments financed through different sources (i.e.,
     separating the financing of a sewerage network from that of sewerage treatment plants), and the capacity of government agencies in land
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



   aquiistion; (b) the pro-poor sanitation sub-component was not fully designed at appraisal, resulting in an overestimation of demand for toilets
   and the lack of articulation of toilet construction and sewerage connections, which had to be corrected during the project restructuring; and (c)
   an increased scrutiny and scope of the ULBs capacity and fiduciary assessment could have been done during project preparation. In addition,
   as per ICR p.10, the procurement provisions could have been done better (see Section 11). The M&E design had weaknesses (see Section
   10).



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   An average of two supervision missions were conducted each year and 20 ISRs were filed. In addition, the country office staff provided
   continuous support throughout implementation. The task team leader changed only once during its nine years of implementation and most of
   the team members remained in place for the duration of the project. Supervision was resource intensive and focused heavily on helping to
   resolve implementation difficulties. A multi-sector team consisting of institutional, social, and financial experts, as well as water, sanitation and
   road engineers, supervised complex institutional reforms as well as over 30 urban works scattered throughout the state, including complex
   underground drainage and pro-poor sanitation works.

   The Bank devoted sufficient resources, including management attention and hands-on implementation support to ensure compliance with the
   Bank’s fiduciary requirements. The QALP considered various aspects of environmental supervision as best practice. Supervision reporting was
   generally candid and realistic and problems were detected in due time and prompt corrective action taken. For example, two years into
   implementation, the project went through a series of difficulties (e.g., slow implementation and disbursements, breach of legal covenants,
   and inelgigible expenditures under the Bangalore roads sub-component), and the Bank took a series of key decisions, including downgrading
   of the project ratings and adopting an action plan to address the issues. Overall, the Bank supervision efforts enabled the project achieve its
   outcomes to a substantial extent. However, it is not clear if the project team duly followed up on land acquisition under the construction of
   sewerage treatment plants, as the number of affected people is unknown to the project team, while the safeguard policy is reported to have
   been duly applied. Also, the safeguard audit was conducted only once instead of several planned (ICR, p.9).



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The ICR acknowledges a strong Government commitment to the project. It remained engaged with the reforms enacting several urban
   reforms during implementation and ensuring sustainability of the project outcomes. Other aspects of the Government performance noted by
   the ICR p.21 included (a) reviews and approvals were done in a timely manner; (c) expenditures were authorized on time; (d) counterpart
   funds were provided on time, albeit the actual contribution was lower than the appraised commitment; and (e) government officials worked
   closely with the Bank's project team, for example, during processing of the project restructuring.



   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The project was implemented by five agencies-DMA, DTP, KUIDFC, BBMP, and BWSSB- and 29 ULBs. Some of these entities had no
   previous Bank experience, so substantial capacity and trainings were needed. The performance of each IA is discussed below:

   Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development Finance Corporation (KUIDFC) carried out all aspects of project management, showed good
   ability to learn, and had appropriate staffing and training; the ICR finds its performance to be satisfactory. There were however some
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



  initial weaknesses in setting up a management information system to monitor progress, which were corrected with technical support.

  Department of Municipal Administration (DMA) supported the implementation of the Institutional Development component, and performed
  satisfactory, according to the ICR. DMA led an ambitious reform program, in close coordination with ADB as well as with the ULBs and
  various other government departments. It produced timely reports and accounts for the use of funds and project results.

  Department of Town and Country Planning (DTP) also supported the implementation of the Institutional Development component, and the
  ICR rates its performance as moderately satisfactory. It produced timely reports and accounts for the use of funds but was slow in getting
  the procurement of the maps under way. Despite the fact that some delays were due beyond the DTP (for example, lengthy clearances
  from the Ministry of Defense), the whole production of maps could have been more strategically handed at the initial stages of
  implementation, preventing the completion of some of the maps going beyond project closure.

  Bangalore Water Supply Sewerage Board (BWSSB) was in charge of the Greater Bangalore sewerage investments. BWSSB dealt well
  with complex procurement and technical issues in the sewerage component, including organizing vendor conferences to simplify and clarify
  the bid documents, and made several technical adjustments to lay down over 2,000 km of sewerage pipes under challenging
  circumstances. The ICR finds its performance to be satisfactory, albeit there were delays in the submission of interim financial and audit
  reports.

  Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) was in charge of the roads subproject, and the ICR rates its performance as unsatisfactory,
  as it did not comply with the FM standards set by the project due to their continued failure to submit financial reports on time and ineligible
  expenditures (the repayments were processed). Also, no data could be obtained for computation of the economic rate of return for the
  urban roads investment.

  Urban Local Bodies (ULBs)’s performance varied widely. By design, the ULBs were intended to fully own the investments, so they played
  an active role in their planning, procurement, supervision, and maintenance. Based on the assessment of the KUIDFC and the interviews
  and site visits with the ULBs during implementation and at the time of project closing, their performance is considered by the ICR to be
  moderately satisfactory. Some of the ULBs proactively dealt with their problems seeking KUIDFC support but many others were not
  proactive and showed lack of ownership, leading to implementation delays.

  The overall performance of all the implementing agencies is rated Moderately Satisfactory.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
  There were two outcome indicators identified at appraisal stage: (I) the number of ULBs participating in the institutional development TA and
  municipal investment support components, and (ii) the number of ULBs reporting improved municipal services in the intervened sector (PAD,
  p.30). These indicators, however, were output-oriented; they formally reported on the number of ULBs receiving loans and grants, not on the
  results of the projects. The targets for these indicators were set as 50 ULBs, despite the fact that municipal investments were supported through
  performance-based grants and loans, and as such were not known at appraisal. They had to be reduced during project restructuring, as all the
  funds were allocated to 32 ULBs. At the same time, the overall number of targeted ULBs for technical assistance support was 164. The number
  of household sewerage connections that was included at appraisal as a component indicator was introduced as a PDO indicator during project
  restructuring in March 2011. Most of the intermediate indicators were adequate with clear quantifiable targets established at appraisal. The ICR
  p.7 notes that instead of a baseline value of zero that aimed at measuring the project intervention results in service coverage, a real baseline
  reflecting the existing level of coverage prior to intervention would have been more useful.

  KUIDFC was responsible of the overall project monitoring and consolidation of data on the implementation progress of all IAs. KUIDFC was also
  responsible for the Municipal Investment Support component, while the monitoring for the Bangalore Development component was the
  responsibility of BBMP and BWSSB, which were to submit progress reports (including physical and financial progress) to KUIDFC on a
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



   semiannual basis.




b. M&E Implementation
   At the initial stages of the project the M&E system was weak for lack of discipline of several implementing agencies in submission of quality
   data on time and for the KUIDFC’s own weaknesses in setting up a management information system to monitor progress. After the mid-term
   review in 2009, M&E implementation improved owning to the support by an M&E consultant. Reports were prepared in a timely manner, and
   the collection of indicators and data was computerized. The KUIDFC collated monthly progress reports from the various implementing
   agencies and ULBs. In addition, each agency undertook periodic review meetings besides progress reviews by the Empowered Committee.
   The Bank received quarterly progress reports on a regular basis according to the formats agreed at appraisal.
   The outcome target was revised during project restructuring in March 2011. The ICR p.8 notes that the revisions into the results framework
   during project restructuring should have also included the following adjustments: (i) the end-of-project target for the indicator on the number of
   ULBs with computerized municipal functions should have been reduced from 169 to 164, as the project always intended to roll out these
   systems to 164 ULBs; and (ii) while the number of ULBs with geo-referenced maps to be produced was reduced to 49, the end target included
   in the results framework recorded a value of 28 and not 49.
   At completion, a number of surveys and a pro-poor sanitation component study were carried out to assess the outcomes of the project
   activities.




c. M&E Utilization
   The teams used a simple monitoring system of the agreed actions at the end of each supervision mission that helped the teams keep good
   track of the key program activities.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   This was a Category “A” project that triggered two safeguards policies – OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, and OP 4.12 Involuntary
   Resettlement (PAD, p.20). The project was expected to have moderate to significant safeguard impacts. A Social and Environmental
   Assessment and Management Framework (SEAMF) was developed and appropriate measures were in place at appraisal to mitigate
   safeguards risks, and these measures were implemented throughout the project. The ICR p.9 reports that the project compliance with
   safeguards was successful; there was one moderately unsatisfactory Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) during the early
   stages of implementation, out of the 20 ISRs filed by the project. One safeguard audit was conducted during the project (instead of the
   several planed), but it did not show any major concerns regarding the mitigation of safeguard risks, according to the ICR p.9.

   OP4.01 Environmental Assessment.
   Under the Municipal Investment component, Environment and Social Assessments (ESAs) were not always prepared in a timely manner
   during the initial phases of the project, resulting in delays. An action plan was put in place for all subprojects, which was implemented
   and found by the QALP as a good and proactive tool to address noncompliance with safeguard instruments. At mid-term review, the
   KUIDFC’s safeguard responsibilities and coordination role, in terms of the ULBs, were enhanced by increasing its team size and
   composition and adding training programs in relevant safeguards areas. The ICR p.9 finds the implementation of the safeguard instruments
   as satisfactory during the remaining period of the project.

   Under the Bangalore Development component, at the initial phase of implementation, the project suffered from weak health and safety
   measures. To address this, a health and safety review of all investments and associated training was conducted, which subsequently
   contributed to improved practices by the contractors. At the initial phase, the implementing agency, the BWSSB, did not manage to deploy
   an environmental specialist, which resulted in inadequate monitoring and supervision of the Environmental Management Plans (EMPs).
   However, once this was addressed, no major safeguard issues were encountered as the biding documents properly incorporated the EMPs
   and regular monitoring was carried out the by the specialist. Similarly, the social team at the BWSSB facilitated bringing in community
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



   awareness on disturbances and measures to minimize discomfort through placing public information boards and community campaigns. On
   the Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation Program, no major safeguard issues were encountered due to the mobilization of safeguard
   specialists to facilitate project implementation.

   Involuntary Resettlement. The implementation of the Bangalore Urban Road Rehabilitation subcomponent (125 km of road works) had no
   land acquisition or displacement issues, and did not encounter any adverse safeguard considerations. For the Greater Bangalore UGD
   subcomponent, social safeguards were limited to community consultations and information on safety and awareness on temporary
   disturbances during the execution of civil works. The laying of sewerage lines involved temporary dislocations and movement restrictions of
   the affected local population. 2-3 sewerage treatment plant sub-projects under municipal investments involved land acquisition, as was
   clarified by the project team. Due to substantial delays in land acquisition process, one investment had to be dropped for the inability to
   complete the land acquisition process and another had to separate the construction of the network and the treatment plant (ICR, p.6). The
   project team subsequently informed that the plant was constructed and as of people/households affected, no substantive problems were
   encountered, and that overall safeguards policies were dully applied. However, the number of affected households is unknown to the
   project team.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. The ICR p.9 reports that overall the project complied with fiduciary covenants, and adequate FM and procurement
   systems were in place. In the initial phase of implementation, the project had fiduciary issues, which were corrected after the mid-term review.
   These included irregular submission of financial reports, unreconciled book records, weak FM staff, and large unspent budgets. The issues were
   detected early on and continuously monitored by the Bank team. The BBMP was the only agency that did not comply with the FM standards set
   by the project, resulting in ineligible expenditures and in the refund of claims made for this subcomponent. In terms of accounting, the KUIDFC
   maintained a robust accounting system on all project accounts and project accounting was a part of the overall entity accounting system. The
   project accounts were also brought into the purview of the internal audit and were reviewed on a timely basis. The fiduciary functions were
   handled by agencies with some prior experience in Bank projects and in cases where prior Bank experience was limited, capacity was
   supplemented by training programs.

   Procurement. The ICR p.10 reports that the project was compliant with the project’s procurement procedures. There were some shortcomings
   that were addressed primarily through training programs. Most procurement challenges were encountered in the Municipal Investment Support
   component due to the lack of ULB’s familiarity with the Bank’s procurement guidelines. In the initial phases of the Municipal Investment Support
   component, there was limited response from the bidders. The Bank team worked closely with the counterpart agencies and ULBs to resolve this
   and a variety of measures were undertaken through the organization of a number of workshops to share and incorporate lessons learned from
   the bidding of the initial packages/lots, better dissemination of bidding opportunities, and introduction of modifications in the technical
   specifications, scope, and packaging of bids. Other challenges resulted from not aligning the procurement planning with detailed engineering
   and land acquisition that led to delays, cost escalations, and rebidding of works. The ICR notes p. 10 that this could have been prevented by (a)
   bringing analysis of market prices of items and data on recent contract prices while estimations were finalized and (b) making more accurate
   provisions for additional costs (related to project management, environmental and social aspects, and so on) and factoring them in the prices to
   be considered by the bidders.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
    ---



d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                       ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                            Modest                             ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The following lessons were selected from the ICR:

Arriving at the right mix of project activities is difficult and requires trade-offs to be made. The experience under this project
demonstrated the difficulty of balancing the financing of big investments in a large underground drainage component versus low-tech and small
investments in toilets and sewerage connections in slums. Getting water supply and sanitation utilities and Bank projects to focus on service
delivery, especially for the poor, is challenging. The pro-poor subcomponent represented only three percent of project financing, but added
significant complexity to the project.

Financing and implementation of municipal projects through state-level institutions calls for a delicate balance between state-level
support and local ownership. To foster local ownership, urban local bodies supported under this project were given the flexibility to determine
their own project priorities, inviting tenders, selecting contractors, and ensuring quality during implementation. ULBs were also empowered
through the creation and strengthening of local systems of accounting, e-governance, taxation, and training courses. Despite these efforts, full
local ownership was not attained due to inability of some ULBs to cover their O&M costs; for reasons that also go beyond the project’s influence,
for example autonomy over human resource policies and tax regimes in India.

The size of investments is of critical importance when working through a municipal fund. The project showed that, ideally, selected
projects must strike a balance between substantial impact on beneficiaries and the ULB’s capacity to generate resources to service debt and
finance O&M. However, there is often a trade-off between the size or impact of the projects and the local capacity to manage the investments.
While ‘setting the bar low’ (by specifying minimum size investments) allowed small ULBs to access project funds, these small projects resulted
in high transaction costs and had low impact. At the other end, O&M of some of the bigger projects still needs support due to a lack of financial
and technical capacity at ULBs. Going forward, as both small and large projects may be needed, Bank projects could consider adopting different
procedures under a ‘small’ versus ‘large’ window.

Service utilities often lack appropriate skills to work in slums, and targeting the poor is difficult and requires extensive preparatory
work. The pro-poor component of the project showed that although the responsible agency is well-equipped to handle technical complexities, it
had to set up an economic and social unit to address issues of a social nature. Directly involving NGOs with experience working in slums and
dealing with social and community issues may also be helpful. The project was designed for notified slums in India, whereas the highest demand
for toilets was in the undeclared slums, which were left out of the program. Future pro-poor operations may consider covering undeclared slums
where many of the poorest live.




14. Assessment Recommended?

Yes
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       IN: Karn Municipal Reform (P079675)



Please explain

It would be useful to follow up on the project's pro-poor sanitation component with respect to the process of regularization of the utility
connections to understand the design of financial arrangements and sustainability of these arrangements. A small study was already carried
out that interviewed several households and beneficiaries on the intervention (Belliappa and Chature 2014), however a more in-depth
assessment would be recommended to distill lessons for the design of similar interventions in slums and poor areas where the poor have
limited capacity to pay for services.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is clear and outcome-oriented. The report offers a candid discussion and analysis of the key factors affecting the project
implementation and provides insightful explanations for important elements of the implementation experience. Its analytical depth and technical
analysis are comprehensive in reporting on a complex and lengthy operation. The report covers well the aspects related to poverty and gender.
The lessons are evidence-based, instructive, and thoughtful. While the ICR did not use a split rating in the assessment of the project
achievement against its objective when the outcome target had changed, it discussed and provided a rationale for not performing a split
assessment. A minor omission was in Annex 1 on the project financing data that should have been updated with the actual financing of the
Borrower. More detail, however, is warranted about mitigation activities and impacts to validate the project's compliance with the safeguard
policy on involuntary resettlement, as this was a Category A project that involved land acquisition. The ICR mentions that there were delays in
land acquisition in the construction of sewerage treatment plants (p.6, para 22), however it does not discuss the related land acquisition
issues in Section 2.4 on Safeguard compliance. Further information and clarification had to be sought from the project team. The IEG rates the
ICR Quality as Substantial.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
