                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank



                                                       Report No: ICR00003436



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-48180)



                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$216 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                       FOR THE

                  KARNATAKA MUNICIPAL REFORM PROJECT



                                  September 22, 2015




Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice
South Asia Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2015)

                               Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (INR)
                                      INR 1.00 = US$ 0.015

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                        April 1- March 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank                         LCS       Low Cost Sanitation
BBMP     Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike             MDF       Municipal Development Fund
BWSSB    Bangalore Water Supply Sewerage Board          M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                    MRC       Municipal Reform Cell
CPS      Country Program Strategy                       MTR       Midterm Review
CBA      Cost-benefit Analysis                          NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
CEA      Cost-effectiveness Analysis                    NRW       Nonrevenue Water
DMA      Department of Municipal Administration         ODF       Open Defecation Free
DTP      Department of Town and Country Planning        O&M       Operations and Maintenance
EC       Empowered Committee                            PDAF      Project Development Advisory Facility
EMP      Environmental Management Plan                  PDO       Project Development Objective
ERR      Economic Rate of Return                        PGR       Public Grievance Redressal
ESA      Environment and Social Assessment              PIU       Project Implementation Unit
ESI      Economics of Sanitation Initiative             QALP      Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio
FGD      Focus Group Discussion                         RWH       Rain Water Harvesting
GIS      Geographic Information System                  SEAMF     Social and Environment Assessment and
                                                                  Management Framework
GOI      Government of India                            SIUD      State Institute of Urban Development
GOK      Government of Karnataka                        STP       Sewerage Treatment Plant
HPEC     High Powered Expert Committee                  SWD       Storm Water Drains
IEG      Independent Evaluation Group                   TA        Technical Assistance
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report   UGD       Underground Drainage
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report       UMC       Urban Mapping Cell
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency         ULB       Urban Local Body
JNNURM   Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal        WSP       Water and Sanitation Program
         Mission
KMRP     Karnataka Municipal Reform Project             WSS       Water Supply and Sanitation
KUIDFC   Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development     WTP       Willingness to Pay
         Finance Corporation
KUWSIP   Karnataka Urban Water Sector
         Improvement Project


          Vice President:                          Annette Dixon
          Country Director:                        Onno Ruhl
          Senior Global Practice Director:         Ede Jorge Ijjaz- Vasquez
          Director:                                Marisela Montoliu Munoz
          Practice Manager:                        Ming Zhang
          Project Team Leader:                     Uri Raich
          ICR Team Leader:                         Uri Raich




                                                   ii
                                                 INDIA
                                     Karnataka Municipal Reform Project

                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS



Contents
A. Basic Information .......................................................................................................... iv
B. Key Dates ...................................................................................................................... iv
C. Ratings Summary .......................................................................................................... iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ v
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... v
F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................... vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)ix
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................... ix
I. Disbursement Profile ....................................................................................................... x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 41
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 78
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 79
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 80




                                                                   iii
A. Basic Information

                                                                           Karnataka Municipal
Country:                India                    Project Name:
                                                                           Reform Project
Project ID:             P079675                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48180
ICR Date:               02/25/2015               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           Government of
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           Karnataka
Original Total
                        US$216 million           Disbursed Amount:         US$185.66 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         US$216 million
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies: Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development Finance Corporation
(KUIDFC); Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB); Bruhat Bengaluru
Mahanagara Palike (BBMP); Karnataka Urban Development Departments of Municipal
Administration and Town and Country Planning.
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates

                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/31/2003     Effectiveness:              06/30/2006       06/30/2006
                                                                                  03/15/2011
Appraisal:            02/01/2005     Restructuring(s):                            01/13/2012
                                                                                  02/19/2014
Approval:             03/14/2006     Midterm Review:             02/23/2009       04/15/2009
                                     Closing:                    04/30/2012       03/31/2015

C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                     Ratings             Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Unsatisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                               Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                    Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:

                                                iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project
                          Yes                   Quality at Entry:        Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                           Yes                                           Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision:
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    5                      5
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector               54                  54
Sub-national government administration                              11                  11
Urban Transport                                                     30                  30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                       24                  24
Land administration and management                                  13                  13
Municipal finance                                                   13                  13
Municipal governance and institution building                       25                  25
Urban services and housing for the poor                             25                  25

E. Bank Staff

          Positions                       At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:              Annette Dixon                     Praful Patel
Country Director:            Onno Ruhl                         Michael F. Carter
Practice Manager/Manager: Ming Zhang                           Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader:         Uri Raich                         Oscar Alvarado
ICR Team Leader:             Uri Raich
ICR Primary Author:          Uri Raich




                                                v
F. Results Framework Analysis


Project Development Objectives (PDOs) (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objective is to help improve the delivery of urban services through enhancing
the quality of urban infrastructure and strengthening the institutional and financial
frameworks for urban services at the urban local body (ULB) and state levels.

Revised PDOs (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                 Original Target Formally
                                  Values (From       Revised       Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator    Baseline Value
                                    Approval          Target               Completion
                                   Documents)         Values
               Number of participating ULBs reporting improved municipal services, e.g.,
Indicator 1:   water supply and sewerage, accessibility, solid waste management and other
               municipal services
                                                                                 29
                                                                 The number of participating
                                                                 ULBs was reduced from 50 to
Value                                                            32 due to the fact that all funds
                       0               50               32
quantitative                                                     were committed to 32 ULBs.
                                                                 Projects were only
                                                                 implemented in 29 out of 32
                                                                 ULBs.
               Number of ULBs participating in institutional development technical assistance
Indicator 2:   (TA) and municipal investment support components, reporting improved
               municipal services
                                                                                164
                                                                 This refers to the number of
                                                                 ULBs that adopted
                                                                 computerized municipal
Value
                       0               50               50       functions. This was aimed at
quantitative
                                                                 reaching all ULBs (164) not
                                                                 covered by the Asian
                                                                 Development Bank (ADB)
                                                                 project.

Indicator 3:   Number of new, working sewerage connections provided in Greater Bangalore
                                                                        152,167
                                                            The additional number of
                                                            connections resulted from
Value
                     0             120,000       120,000 underground drainage (UGD)
quantitative
                                                            investments in Greater
                                                            Bangalore and in the poor peri-
                                                            urban areas.




                                               vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                  Original Target Formally
                                   Values (From       Revised        Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator    Baseline Value
                                     Approval         Target       Completion or Target Years
                                    Documents)        Values
Indicator 4:   Number of ULBs with computerized basic municipal functions
                                                                                 164
Value                                                             The target was always 164 and
                        0               169             169
quantitative                                                      not 169, but this was never
                                                                  revised.
               Number of ULBs having geo-referenced, large-scale mapping which are used in
Indicator 5:
               basic land management and planning functions
                                                                                  12
                                                                  The target was reduced from
                                                                  202 to 49, to focus on the
                                                                  larger towns. Out of 49 maps,
Value
                        0               202              49       12 have been completed and
quantitative
                                                                  16 are expected to be
                                                                  completed by November 2015.
                                                                  The remaining 21 maps are
                                                                  being financed by the ADB.
               Number of ULBs with new budgeting and accounting systems in place, which
Indicator 6:
               are being used for financial management purposes
                                                                                 158
                                                                  The target was always 164 and
                                                                  not 169, but this was never
Value
                        0               169             169       revised. The remaining 6
quantitative
                                                                  (difference between 158 and
                                                                  164) ULBs were supported by
                                                                  the ADB program
Indicator 7:   Number of urban sector staff trained in the state on various modules
                                                                               25,538
                                                                  The additional number of staff
Value
                        0              8,700           8,700      trained resulted from the
quantitative
                                                                  combined counting of the ULB
                                                                  and state-level staff
Indicator 8:   New State Urban Finance Framework/Business model for KUIDFC established
Value
                     None              Done           Done                   Done
qualitative
Indicator 9:   Number of ULBs receiving loans/grants and quantum of funds accessed
                                                                            29
                                                             The number of ULBs receiving
                                                             loans/grants was reduced from
Value
                     0                50              32     50 to 32 due to the fact that all
quantitative
                                                             funds were committed to 32
                                                             ULBs. Only 29 out of the 32
                                                             ULBs received loans/grants.




                                              vii
Indicator 10: Number of people provided with improved water supply
                                                                             120,000
                                                                 The difference is explained by
Value
                      0             100,000         100,000 the decision taken during
quantitative
                                                                 implementation to move to
                                                                 24x7 water schemes.
              All funded projects meet appraisal and sector rules of engagement, as determined
Indicator 11:
              by technical audits.
Value
                      0              100%             100%                    100%
quantitative
Indicator 12: Length of roads in good conditions as a result of the project
                                                                               125
                                                                 Out of 40 roads originally
                                                                 planned, a 15 km length road
Value
                      0               140              140       was dropped as it was deemed
Quantitative
                                                                 unnecessary due to
                                                                 construction of the Bangalore
                                                                 metro rail.
Indicator 13: Improved BWSSB cost recovery, with 90% operating ratio (each financial year)
Value
Quantitative
                      0               90%              90%                    100%


Indicator 14: New household sewerage connections constructed under the project
                                                                            152,167
                                                                 The additional number of
Value                                                            connections resulted from
                       0            120,000          120,000
Quantitative                                                     UGD investments in Greater
                                                                 Bangalore and the poor peri-
                                                                 urban areas.
              Project development facility operational and capacity-building support being
Indicator 15:
              accessed by ULBs for investments
                               Project
                               Development        PDAF
                               Advisory           facility fully
                               Facility (PDAF) operational PDAF facility fully operational
Value
                    None       fully operational and ULBs        and ULBs commence
Qualitative
                               and ULBs           commence accessing this facility
                               commence           accessing this
                               accessing this facility
                               facility




                                             viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in Implementation Status and Results Reports
(ISRs)


                                                                                   Actual
       Date ISR
No.                             DO                            IP               Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                               (US$, millions)
 1     06/29/2006          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                       0.00
 2     12/28/2006          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      11.00
 3     06/29/2007          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      20.96
 4     12/17/2007          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      24.31
 5     06/27/2008      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory                28.95
 6     12/29/2008      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory               35.85
 7     05/27/2009      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory               39.53
 8     11/29/2009      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory               45.66
 9     05/25/2010      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory               47.95
 10    06/24/2010      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory                49.23
 11    12/17/2010          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                55.01
 12    07/09/2011          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                75.29
 13    12/17/2011          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                89.88
 14    06/04/2012          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                99.19
 15    12/22/2012          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              115.38
 16    06/05/2013      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory              131.30
 17    09/18/2013      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory              140.80
 18    04/22/2014          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              156.66
 19    12/05/2014          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              175.70
 20    03/27/2015          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              182.35

H. Restructuring (if any)


               Board         ISR Ratings at         Amount
Restructuring Approved       Restructuring        Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)      PDO                              Restructuring       Key Changes Made
                               DO       IP
               Change                            (US$, millions)
                                                                 (a) A reduction in the scope
                                                                 of activities under
                                                                 Components A.2
                                                                 and B, including
                                                                 modification to three of the
                                                                 related indicators within the
 03/15/2011         n.a.        S       MS             75.29     results framework
                                                                 (b) Redefinition of the scope
                                                                 of activities related to Greater
                                                                 Bangalore sewerage in terms
                                                                 of interventions under the
                                                                 Bangalore Development
                                                                 component (Component C)



                                                 ix
               Board            ISR Ratings at        Amount
Restructuring Approved          Restructuring       Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)      PDO                                Restructuring       Key Changes Made
                                  DO        IP
               Change                              (US$, millions)
                                                                   (c) Minor reallocation of loan
                                                                   savings on the amount of US$
                                                                   3.97 million
                                                                   (d) Changes to disbursement
                                                                   percentages and broadened
                                                                   definitions across some of
                                                                   the disbursement categories
                                                                   (e) Revised disbursement
                                                                   projections
  01/13/2012         n.a.          S        MS           99.19     Extension of closing date
  02/19/2014         n.a.          S        MS         156.66      Extension of closing date

Note: S = Satisfactory; MS = Moderately Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                   x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. Background. At appraisal in 2005, with nearly 300 million urban residents, India’s cities
contributed over 60 percent of the gross domestic product and accounted for more than 90
percent of government revenues. Their efficiency had a significant and direct bearing on the
country’s overall economy. While economic opportunity in cities had grown rapidly, the gap
in the provision of urban services had increased. The Tenth Five-Year Plan (2002–07)
recognized that India’s cities could contribute more effectively to the country’s economic
growth and poverty reduction if they did not suffer from severe infrastructure bottlenecks,
service deficiencies, weak finances, and poor local governance. The plan estimated that about
US$7 billion was needed for urban development between 2002 and 2007 and underscored the
centrality of reforms to achieving sustainable investments.

2. Karnataka was, and still is, one of the most rapidly urbanizing states in India. A business-
friendly environment has contributed to rising incomes and a strong demand for quality services
from a growing urban population. The primacy of the capital city Bangalore in the State of
Karnataka, referred to as the Silicon Valley of India, had made infrastructure investments an
urgent priority for the state. Like other states in India, Karnataka’s urban landscape was
characterized by a mismatch between responsibilities for operations and maintenance (O&M)
and the financing of infrastructure and services, lack of accountability, weak local capacity, and
excessive central controls, all of which had impeded service delivery, discouraged investments,
and stifled productivity of the urban economy. Improving cities’ access to finance was
considered essential but not sufficient to overcome these challenges.

3. A systematic approach for the medium to long term was needed to ensure sustainable
delivery of quality services at local levels. Several measures undertaken by Karnataka
demonstrated its commitment to reforms to create an enabling environment for enhancing urban
productivity and provided the backdrop for the World Bank’s urban engagement: it repealed
the Urban Land Ceiling Act, initiated accrual based accounting systems in urban local bodies
(ULBs), established a policy framework for enhancing cost recovery in water supply, and
introduced a capital value system for property taxation, among other reforms. The state also
established the Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development Finance Corporation (KUIDFC)
in 1993 for the implementation of urban infrastructure development projects with support from
external financial institutions. To date, the KUIDFC has executed five Asian Development
Bank (ADB) projects and three Bank-supported projects, as well as several government of India
(GOI) sponsored programs (notably the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission
[JNNURM]) and pioneered the development of state government policies for urban
development.

4. Rationale for Bank involvement. The Bank has supported the establishment of municipal
development funds (MDFs) in around 60 countries with over US$2 billion over 30 years in 128
projects, with the objective of shifting from government-led urban development to market-
oriented infrastructure financing operations. Municipalities that participated in Bank-supported
municipal development projects outperformed nonparticipants in municipal financial autonomy,
direct and indirect cost recovery, and balancing their budgets. They came to rely more on their
own revenues, mainly property taxes, and succeeded in mobilizing additional revenues. The
enhancement of this financial capacity takes a long time, as the design and implementation of
the reforms to unlock the revenue potential is a long-term agenda.

5. In India, the Bank was engaged on the urban reforms outlined in the Tenth Five-Year Plan
and the Karnataka Municipal Reform Project (KMRP) came in as a catalyzer of the overall
urban reform process by supporting their implementation in Karnataka. In addition, the KMRP
was fully consistent with the Bank’s 2004 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that aimed at
improving the quality of life of the poorest citizens and at helping India to achieve the
                                                1
Millennium Development Goals, particularly through increased coverage in basic urban
services such as water and sewerage. It also contributed to the CAS priority of improving
government effectiveness through fostering the decentralization process and supporting
effective governance by strengthening the financial and administrative capacity of ULBs to
plan and deliver services in a fiscally sustainable manner.

6. The Bank had also been an active partner in urban development in other states like Tamil
Nadu through the four Tamil Nadu Urban Development projects, which highlighted the need
for an enabling state framework and a decentralized framework for enacting urban reforms and
identifying investment priorities. In addition, the Bank has also been engaged in a dialogue with
Karnataka on its water policy and urban sector reform initiatives, mainly through the Karnataka
Water Supply Management Municipal Strengthening Project. With these experiences, the Bank
was well positioned to support the government of Karnataka (GOK) in further implementing
the necessary urban reforms. The KMRP also came to complement and build upon experiences
of parallel initiatives by other development partners in the urban sector in the state, including
the ADB’s Urban Infrastructure Development Project, the funding of the Bangalore Water
Supply project by the United States Agency for International Development, and funding of
Bangalore’s water and sewerage systems from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators

7. The project objective is to help improve the delivery of urban services through enhancing
the quality of urban infrastructure and strengthening the institutional and financial frameworks
for urban services at the ULB and state levels. At appraisal, only a single PDO indicator was
included: number of participating ULBs reporting improved municipal services, e.g. water
supply and sewerage, accessibility (roads), solid waste management, and other municipal
services. In addition, eleven component indicators were set up at appraisal.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

8. The PDO was not revised. During implementation the following two PDO indicators were
introduced with the sole purpose of better capturing the development objective of the project:

       An indicator on the number of ULBs participating in institutional development
        technical assistance (TA) and municipal investment support components reporting
        improved municipal services was introduced at the first project restructuring in March
        2011.
       The indicator on the number of household sewerage connections that was included as
        a component indicator at appraisal was also included as a PDO indicator.

9. At the component level, the targets of two indicators were revised during the first project
restructuring (level 2) in March 2011, as follows:

       The number of ULBs with geo-referenced large-scale mappings (Subcomponent A.2)
        was reduced from 202 to 49, to adjust the initial ambitions of the project and
        accommodate delays in implementation. The reduction affected the smaller ULBs (less
        than 50,000) for which maps were considered of secondary importance. Despite the
        reduction in ULBs the total area covered by the maps was reduced by 35 percent only
        (from 6,811 to 4,478 km2).
       The number of ULBs receiving loans/grants (Component B) was reduced from 50 to
        32 as all project funds were committed to 89 subprojects in 32 ULBs. No substantive
        changes in the number of expected beneficiaries took place since the larger subprojects
        would benefit more residents within the 32 ULBs.



                                               2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10. The main beneficiaries were the ULBs that implemented the reforms and the residents of
the targeted areas where the investments took place:

       164 (out of 202) ULBs that undertook a package of reforms, corresponding to 77
        percent of the total number of ULBs. Benefits in the form of better municipal processes
        like issue of birth/death certificates and access to a grievance redressal system, among
        others, were extended to a population of over 18 million people.
       25,000 ULB and state-level staff who participated in training activities.
       Over 2.5 million residents in the ULBs who benefitted from subprojects in roads, drains,
        water, sewerage, and slum upgrading, among others.
       Residents in Bangalore benefiting from reduced travel time and safer traffic measures.
       Over 600,000 residents in Greater Bangalore benefiting from underground drainage
        (UGD).
       Around 88,000 poor slum residents in Greater Bangalore benefiting from toilets
        and improved sanitation

1.5 Original Components (as approved, abbreviated from the PAD)

       Component A - Institutional Development (US$28.4 million), which supported
        institutional capacity-building activities aimed toward better transparency and
        accountability at the ULB and state levels in key areas, including computerization of
        basic municipal functions, urban land management and planning, financial
        management (FM) reforms, and training to ULB and state-level staff.
       Component B - Municipal Investment Support (US$90 million), which provided
        performance-based loans and grants to ULBs outside of Bangalore for investments in
        urban services, covering water supply, urban roads, street lighting, slum upgrading, and
        other municipal functions such as solid waste disposal, sewerage, and storm water
        drains (SWDs).
       Component C - Bangalore Development (US$179.8 million), which provided
        financing support for the rehabilitation of Bangalore City road network (US$35.4
        million); the construction of a sanitary sewerage system in the eight ULBs around
        Bangalore City (US$137.6 million), including institutional capacity building of
        Bangalore Water Supply Sewerage Board (BWSSB) and the construction of pro-poor
        sanitation facilities at the community and individual levels in the eight ULBs around
        Bangalore City (US$6.8 million).
       Component D - Project Management (US$11.3 million), which supported project
        implementation, including incremental operating costs of relevant implementing units
        and a project development advisory facility to support preparation and implementation
        of subprojects by the ULBs.

1.6 Revised Components

11. During the first project restructuring (March 2011) two subcomponents from the Bangalore
Development component were revised. First, the scope of Subcomponent C.2—Greater
Bangalore Underground Drainage Program—was revised to exclude the financing of sewerage
treatment plants (STPs) and one pumping station to be financed by other non-Bank sources of
finance. Second, the scope of Subcomponent C.3—Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation
Program—was broadened from the original provision of latrines alone to include other
sanitation/sewerage options, primarily household connections. This was done to correct for the
overestimated demand for toilets, done at appraisal, and to ensure the connection of toilets to
the sewerage network.




                                               3
1.7 Other Significant Changes

12. The project underwent three level 2 restructurings, none of which had any impact on the
PDOs nor on its institutional and fiduciary arrangements.

                                Table 1. Project Restructurings
 No.       Date/                                      Restructuring
       Disbursements
  1      03/15/2011         Institutional Development component: The number of ULBs with geo-
       Disbursed 35%         referenced large-scale mappings (Subcomponent A.2) was reduced
                             from 202 to 49, to adjust the initial ambitions of the project and
                             accommodate delays in implementation.
                         Municipal Investment Support component: The number of ULBs
                             receiving loans/grants (Component B) was reduced from 50 to 32 as all
                             project funds were committed in 32 ULBs.
                         Bangalore Development component: The scope of Subcomponent
                             C.2—Greater Bangalore Underground Drainage Program—was
                             revised. Financing of STPs and one pumping station was dropped as
                             these were to be financed by other non-Bank sources of finance.
                             Subcomponent C.3—Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation
                             Program—was also revised to broaden its scope from the original
                             provision of latrines alone, to include other sanitation/sewerage
                             options, primarily household connections. This was done to correct for
                             the overestimated demand for toilets, done at appraisal, and to ensure
                             the connection of toilets to the sewerage network.
                         Reallocation of loan savings: A financial reallocation of US$3.97
                             million (1.8 percent of the loan amount) from the Institutional
                             Development and Project Management components to the Municipal
                             Investment Support component, to channel costs savings from the
                             former two components to meet additional financing requirements and
                             cost overruns in the latter component.
                         Changes in disbursement percentages: Minor changes in the
                             disbursement percentages and categories to reflect the ineligibility of
                             some state-owned agencies to undertake mapping and other capacity-
                             building activities. The scope of the pro-poor disbursement category
                             was also broadened to include sub grants to facilitate beneficiary- led
                             construction, and all disbursement categories were broadened to
                             include training and incremental operating costs.
  2     01/13/2012      Extension of the project closing date from April 30, 2012, to March 31,
       Disbursed 45%    2014, to complete over 50% of ongoing activities and reach project
                        objectives.
  3     02/19/2014      Extension of the project closing date from March 31, 2014, to March 31,
       Disbursed 72%    2015, to complete outstanding investments under signed contracts, mostly
                        related to municipal investments and Bangalore’s UGD.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

13. Soundness of background analysis and project design. The KMRP was a complex
project that combined an ambitious reform program, with numerous municipal investments
scattered through the state and some big investments in Greater Bangalore. The KMRP was
originally envisioned as a reform program to support implementation of the democratic
decentralization under India’s 74th Constitutional Amendment in accordance with the GOI’s
Tenth Five-Year Plan. Work on policy reform began before the KMRP through an ADB-
financed operation in 49 ULBs. With the KMRP, the reforms were scaled up to the entire state
by adding 164 ULBs. Despite the preparedness and readiness for the reforms, there was clearly
a risk in taking the ambitious decision to roll out the full set of reforms to all ULBs. However,


                                                4
although it took time and enormous effort, the project did succeed in completing the reforms
and delivering a substantive impact.

14. The reforms were accompanied with a series of municipal investments. This allowed
leveraging on the investments to push policy reform and accommodated the government’s need
to provide key urban infrastructure in the state. An Operations Evaluation Development review
of the Bank’s assistance in the urban sector in India, conducted in 2000, found that the
performance of most urban operations was less than satisfactory due to the complex nature of
projects in relation to local client capacity. As such, the project design linked the reforms and
capacity-building initiatives to the investments to be undertaken by the ULBs.

15. In addition, two important lessons from other similar operations were included: aligning
responsibilities for investment and O&M and aligning investments with absorptive capacity.
Regarding the former, the fragmentation of responsibilities between state agencies and ULBs
in India often results in lack of sustainable investments and poor incentives for ULBs’
performance. The project took into account this lesson by recognizing the ULBs’ central role
in the planning, development, and implementation of their priority investments while accessing
advisory support from the project to ensure the financial, technical, and fiduciary viability of
projects. Regarding the latter, while investment needs at the ULB levels are enormous, their
technical and financial capacity, including for O&M, is limited. The project internalized this
lesson by ensuring that the size of investments in the ULBs is based on an in-depth analysis of
the financing and investment capacity to cover debt and O&M costs arising from the proposed
investment.

16. Aside from the reforms and municipal investment components, the project undertook a
series of large drainage/sanitation investments in Greater Bangalore that were supposed to be
processed independently but at the time of appraisal were combined into a single operation.
More specifically, during appraisal the client requested the inclusion of the Greater Bangalore
UGD investment into KMRP as was considered a key priority investment and one which at that
time had no other viable source of financing. The decision taken at appraisal to be responsive
to the client’s needs came at a cost, as the UGD investment, that represented 45 percent of the
total project proceeds, was not fully prepared. Thus the preparation, tendering, and
implementation of 25 packages of the UGD works took place during the early stages of
implementation, which contributed to the works starting in 2010, four years after effectiveness.

17. Similarly, the Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation Program did not have complete
background studies by effectiveness, resulting in mid-term corrections to adjust the demand for
toilets in slums. Because no investment of such scale in UGD was ever undertaken in India and
because of the limited experience in pro-poor sanitation, many lessons were only learned along
the way and adjustments done only during implementation. Overall, the client was very
appreciative of the project design because it accommodated its needs for urban reforms and
investments and because it took up risky and innovative approaches.

18. Adequacy of government commitment. Despite the complexity of the KMRP, the
government remained at the driving seat throughout implementation. Both the GOI and GOK
have shown strong commitment to urban sector reforms as demonstrated by their goal to roll
out all the reforms to all ULBs—despite numerous complexities. Strong commitment was also
given to the investments as demonstrated by the Proceeding of the 31st Meeting of the
Empowered Committee (EC) on March 11, 2015, that approved financing to complete all
KMRP investments that spill over beyond project closure in March 2015. Also, the various
state agencies involved in project implementation (Department of Municipal Administration
[DMA], Department of Town and Country Planning [DTP], KUIDFC, Bruhat Bengaluru
Mahanagara Palike [BBMP], BWSSB) together with the beneficiary ULBs took on a very
proactive stand in the development of their respective activities. The KUIDFC, as the nodal
implementing agency, proactively engaged with the other implementing agencies for course
correction and support for implementation.

                                               5
19. Assessment of risk. Three of the nine risks identified at appraisal could not be fully
mitigated and resulted in delays in project implementation but did not compromise any of the
project’s objectives. These three risks are discussed below.

20. Complex implementation arrangement: Urban projects are typically characterized by a
confluence of agencies that operate in the urban space, and KMRP was not the exception.
KMRP had five implementing agencies in addition to the ULBs. Despite the coordinating role
of the KUIDFC, the consolidation of reports was constantly delayed during implementation.
This risk could have been mitigated by separating the urban development from the Bangalore
Development component but, as already discussed, this was not really an option, due to the
strong preference of the client to include the later component. Another option, could have been
limiting the role of the ULBs in the Municipal Investment component, but this may have
weakened the ULBs institutional capacities, which the same project sought to strengthen.
Finally, complexity could have been reduced by limiting the number of reforms to be promoted
or the number of ULBs to be covered. However, due to the “big bang” approach that the State
took to implement its reform agenda, any limitation on the areas of reform and/or coverage of
ULBs could have compromised the success of the reforms, without offering much benefit.

21. ULB’s weak institutional and financial capacity to manage subprojects: Despite the
support of the project advisory facility to prepare timely, viable, and technically sound projects,
the implementation of subprojects encountered continuous delays during tendering and
implementation. Despite the training, capacity-building, and management support offered by
the project, the ULBs’ weak technical and fiduciary capacities were present during
implementation and caused several delays. This risk could have been partially addressed by
providing more targeted trainings in works management, by providing basic capacity-building
activities during project preparation, and by increasing the scrutiny and scope of the ULBs
capacity and fiduciary assessments during project design.

22. Delays in land acquisition: Despite the fact that the project gave priority to land acquisition
early on, the complex intricacies of land acquisition still resulted in delays beyond the
government’s full control. During implementation, one municipal investment had to be dropped
altogether for the inability to complete the land acquisition process and another had to separate
the construction of the network and the treatment plant because of delays in land acquisition.
Acquiring rights-of-way also contributed to delays in the UGD project. In the context of India,
the risk rating for delays in land acquisition should have been rated High rather than Moderate
as stated in the PAD and endorsed by the QALP.

2.2 Implementation

23. The project objective and associated components and indicators set at appraisal were clear
and remained relevant throughout the project. However, the scope of the project was ambitious
and this resulted in a 9-year implementation period rather than the original 5.6 years planned.
Project extensions were granted to cope with delays on several municipal investments and on
the Greater Bangalore Drainage and Sanitation subcomponents, which were not fully prepared
by the time of appraisal.

24. Despite its ambition to roll out a set of policy reforms throughout the whole State, the
Institutional Development component was successfully implemented with four out of five
subcomponents reaching their targets in due time. The component aimed at creating a municipal
e-governance platform to improve the delivery of public services in the state through the
following four applications: (a) Property Taxation with geographic information system (GIS);
(b) Fund-based Double Entry Accrual Accounting ; (c) Public Grievance Redressal (PGR); and
(d) Birth and Death Registration. By the time of project closure, the municipal e-governance
and capacity-building activities were successfully implemented in 164 ULBs. These activities
have been considered good practice in the country as a whole and also won numerous awards.



                                                6
25. With regard to the Municipal Investment Support component, the project decision to
involve the ULBs through the project cycle to build ownership resulted in a cumbersome
system of approvals and clearances between the ULBs and the KUIDFC, which extended the
project schedules. Weak ULB capacity to tender and manage contracts also contributed to
delays. Despite the delays, however, the decision taken during preparation to follow a learning-
by-doing, rather than a centralizing, approach was defended as the preferred way to build the
much-needed local capacity and ownership.

26. The Bangalore Road Rehabilitation subcomponent was successfully implemented within
the project original closing date, reaching its targets in due time. This was due to the
implementation capacity of the Bangalore Municipal Corporation, the BBMP, and the fact that
this activity was processed as retroactive financing.

27. The Greater Bangalore UGD subcomponent faced several implementation challenges,
which may not be surprising considering it is one of the most ambitious investments of its kind
in India. More than 2,300 km of pipes were laid in the Greater Bangalore area. With 80 percent
of the project area being ‘unplanned’, tremendous technical difficulties were faced in laying
the pipes. Delays were also due to complex procedures for authorizations and clearances from
various state and central government agencies to acquire rights-of-way; very difficult
underground conditions resulting from the lack of maps of underground assets (gas and water
pipes, telephone, and fiber optics, and so on.); and hard soil conditions. Because no previous
task of this scope had been undertaken, several procurement issues were also encountered
during the tendering process (see section 2.4). Despite the complexities, the BWSSB made
numerous course corrections during implementation, resulting in completion of 90 percent of
the works (corresponding to over 130,000 working connections) by project closure and the
remaining 10 percent expected to be completed by the end of 2015.

28. The Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation component, a pilot intervention of US$6
million, included as a good opportunity to serve the poor, also encountered several
implementation challenges that resulted from initial lack of attention by the BWSSB, whose
attention was concentrated in the big UGD works. Subsequently the lack of in-house expertise
in the implementing agency had to be overcome. The implementation of this subcomponent
started late due to the complexities associated with the initial phases of the main UDG
investments. However, proactive decisions were taken to ensure success such as the setting up
of an economic and social cell in the BWSSB to run the activities; the engagement of
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to facilitate the community and awareness work; and
the broadening of the scope of the subcomponent from the original provision of latrines alone,
to include household connections. This latter decision was taken in the first restructuring of the
project to adjust for the original overestimation of the demand for toilets and to ensure the
connection of the toilets to the sewerage network.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

29. M&E design. The M&E design was overall adequate. The three PDO outcome indicators
allowed for appropriately measuring the key development impacts of the project, namely
strengthening of institutional/financial capacities by measuring the number of ULBs
participating in the institutional development TA; and enhancing urban services and
infrastructure by measuring the number of ULBs that reported improved municipal services
and the number of sewerage connections. Similarly, most component indicators (10 out of 12)
established clear and objective quantitative targets which simplified the monitoring of the
project implementation. Various indicators, however, focused on outputs which complicated
the measurement of improvements in service delivery as stated by the PDO. This could have
been adjusted at the design stage, by either limiting the PDO to service coverage or by coming
up with a few outcome indicators. Also, some of the indicators, especially those related to
service coverage, did not establish real baselines. Instead of a baseline value of zero that aimed
at measuring the impact of the intervention over and beyond the original coverage, a real

                                                7
baseline reflecting the existing level of coverage prior to the intervention could have been
established.

30. The Municipal Investment component followed a ‘framework’ approach in which the
subprojects were not identified up front; thus, the M&E that was set up at appraisal only
formally reported on the number of ULBs receiving loans/grants and not on the results/impacts
of the subprojects. To curb this limitation, the M&E system set up by the KUIDFC collected
information on all subprojects, including the type of subproject, their outputs, and an estimated
number of beneficiaries.

31. M&E implementation and utilization. The KUIDFC was responsible for the overall
project monitoring, supervision, and consolidation of the progress in the activities of all the
implementing agencies. The KUIDFC was also responsible for the Municipal Investment
Support component, while the monitoring for the Bangalore Development component was the
responsibility of the BBMP and BWSSB, who were charged to submit progress reports
(including physical and financial progress) to the KUIDFC on a semiannual basis. Despite this
design, at the initial stages of the project the M&E system was weak because of the lack of
discipline of some of the implementing agencies to submit quality data on time and because of
the KUIDFC’s own weaknesses in setting up a management infor mation system to monitor
progress.

32. The M&E system only took shape by the MTR when an M&E consultant was brought in,
reports were started to be prepared in a timely manner, and the computerization (as opposed to
manual systems) of indicators and data began to be implemented. Since then and until project
closure, the M&E system functioned satisfactorily. The KUIDFC collated monthly progress
reports from the various implementing agencies/ULBs. In addition, each agency undertook
periodic review meetings besides progress reviews by the EC. The Bank received quarterly
progress reports on a regular basis according to formats agreed at appraisal. In addition to this
formal M&E mechanism, throughout the project, the teams used a simple monitoring system
of Agreed Actions at the end of each supervision mission that helped the teams keep good track
of the key program activities.

33. The M&E framework designed at appraisal went through a few adjustments during
implementation, increasing the total number of indicators from 12 to 15, as follows:

    (a) The number of household sewerage connections that was included at appraisal as a
        component indicator was also reported as a PDO indicator.
    (b) A new PDO indicator on the number of ULBs participating in institutional
        development TA and municipal investment support components reporting improved
        municipal services was introduced at the first project restructuring in March 2011.
    (c) The reporting of the number of trainings at the ULB and state levels was done in
        conjunction and not separated, as envisioned at appraisal. This explains the outlier
        value of the indicator of staff trained which is three times higher than the value
        established at appraisal.
    (d) An indicator to measure the establishment of a new state urban framework/business
        model for the KUIDFC was introduced at the first project restructuring in March 2011.
    (e) A new component indicator on the number of people provided with improved water
        supply was introduced to comply with the corporate decision to include sector core
        indicators.

34. In addition, at the Midterm Review (MTR), the targets of two component indicators were
revised to reduce the number of ULBs with geo-referenced maps from 202 to 49 and the number
of ULBs to undertake subprojects from 50 to 32. During that revision, the team could have
included two additional adjustments to the M&E system. First, the end-of-project target for the
indicator on the number of ULBs with computerized municipal functions should have been
reduced from 169 to 164, by virtue that the project always intended to roll out these systems to
164 and not 169 ULBs. Second, while the number of ULBs with geo-referenced maps to be
                                               8
produced was reduced to 49, the end target included in the results framework used after the
MTR recorded a value of 28 and not 49. This is because it was later agreed that 21 out of the
49 ULBs were going to receive support from the ADB, but this target was never revised in the
M&E framework.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

35. Environmental and Social Safeguards. The project was rated as ‘Category A’ according
to the Bank’s safeguard polices and was expected to have moderate to significant safeguard
impacts. A Social and Environmental Assessment and Management Framework (SEAMF) was
developed and appropriate measures were in place at appraisal to mitigate safeguards risks.
These measures were implemented throughout the project. Overall, safeguard compliance was
successful with only one Moderately Unsatisfactory Implementation Status and Results Report
(ISR) during the early stages of implementation, out of the 20 ISRs filed by the project.

36. Component B: Municipal Investment Support. Environment and Social Assessments
(ESAs) were not always prepared in a timely manner during the initial phases of the project,
resulting in delays. During the MTR, an action plan was put in place to ensure preparation and
proper implementation of ESAs to all subprojects. Although it took about nine months to
implement the plan, it yielded good results and was praised by the QALP as a good and
proactive tool to address noncompliance with safeguard instruments. At MTR, the KUIDFC’s
safeguard responsibilities and coordination role, in terms of the ULBs, were enhanced by
increasing its team size and composition and adding training programs in relevant safeguards
areas, resulting in satisfactory implementation of the safeguard instruments (SEAMF, ESAs,
and so on) during the remaining period of the project.

37. Component C: Bangalore Development. The implementation of the Bangalore Urban
Road Rehabilitation subcomponent that laid over 125 km of roads had no land acquisition or
displacement issues, so its implementation did not encounter any adverse safeguard
considerations. For the Greater Bangalore UGD subcomponent, social safeguards were limited
to community consultations and information on safety and awareness on temporary
disturbances during the execution of works. This was so because the laying of sewerage lines
did not require any land but only temporary dislocations and movement restrictions of the
affected local population. With regard to environmental safeguards, at the initial phase of
implementation, the project suffered from poor health and safety measures. To address this, a
health and safety review of all investments and associated training was conducted, which
subsequently contributed to improved practices by the contractors. At the initial phase, the
implementing agency, the BWSSB, did not manage to deploy an environmental specialist,
which resulted in inadequate monitoring and supervision of the Environmental Management
Plans (EMPs). However, once this initial hurdle was overcome, no major safeguard issues were
encountered as the biding documents properly incorporated the EMPs and regular monitoring
was carried out the by the specialist. Similarly, the social team at the BWSSB facilitated
bringing in community awareness on disturbances and measures to minimize discomfort
through placing public information boards and community campaigns.

38. On the Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation Program, no major safeguard issues were
encountered due to the mobilization of a team of specialists to facilitate project implementation.
As a result of the project’s substantive efforts to deal with social issues (communication with
community support organizations, community consultation, and so on), the capacity of the
BWSSB and ULBs in this area was enhanced. Although only one safeguard audit was
conducted during the project (instead of the several planed), it did not show any major concerns
regarding the mitigation of safeguard risks.

39. Fiduciary. The fiduciary functions were handled by agencies with some prior experience
in Bank projects and in cases where prior Bank experience was limited, capacity was
supplemented by training programs in procurement and FM. By and large, the project complied
with fiduciary covenants and adequate FM and procurement systems were in place. In the initial
                                                9
phases, the project did not fully comply with the Bank’s fiduciary standards, but after the MTR,
the procurement and FM ISR ratings were Moderately Satisfactory throughout implementation.

40. FM. The different implementing agencies maintained appropriate accounting and financial
records throughout the project but there were a series of problems at the initial phases of
implementation, mostly due to ineffective coordination among the agencies. Some of the initial
problems include irregular submission of financial reports unreconciled book records, weak
FM staff, and large unspent budgets. These problems were detected early on and continuously
monitored by the Bank team. The BBMP was the only agency that did not comply with the FM
standards set by the project, resulting in ineligible expenditures and in the refund of claims
made for this subcomponent.

41. The project provided budget and counterpart contributions in a timely manner throughout
implementation. No fund flow issues were encountered and payments to vendors and suppliers
were made in a timely manner. Only in a few cases, BWSSB payments were delayed due to
contract variations. In terms of accounting, the KUIDFC maintained a robust accounting system
on all project accounts and project accounting was a part of the overall entity accounting system.
Accounting at the BBMP was weak which led to several reconciliation issues. The BWSSB has
its own accounting system and reports were submitted to the KUIDFC for consolidation and
reporting. Delays in the submission of interim financial and audit reports from the BWSSB
occurred throughout the project. The project accounts were also brought into the purview of the
internal audit and were reviewed on a timely basis. FM staffing in the case of the KUIDFC was
adequate. The BBMP and BWSSB used their own staff for project accounting, which caused
the project accounting to be compromised during times of competing demands.

42. Procurement. Overall, the project was compliant with the project’s procurement
procedures. There were some shortcomings that were addressed primarily through training
programs. Most procurement challenges were encountered in the Municipal Investment
Support component as many of the participating ULBs were less familiar with the Bank’s
procurement guidelines. The KUIDFC issued more than 15 procurement notices in the local
language to familiarize the ULBs with project procurement rules and procedures. Also, in the
initial phases of the Municipal Investment Support component there was limited response from
the bidders. The Bank team worked closely with the counterpart agencies and ULBs to resolve
this and a variety of measures were undertaken. These include the organization of a number of
workshops to share and incorporate lessons learned from the bidding of the initial
packages/lots; better dissemination of bidding opportunities; and introduction of modifications
in the technical specifications, scope, packaging of bids, and so on. This built substantive
capacity, and now the KUIDFC is preparing and managing complex contracts with its own
resources.

43. Other challenges resulted from not aligning the procurement planning with detailed
engineering and land acquisition that led to serious time overruns, cost escalations, and
rebidding of works. This could have been prevented by (a) bringing analysis of market prices
of items and data on recent contract prices while estimations were finalized and (b) making
more accurate provisions for additional costs (related to project management, environmental
and social aspects, and so on) and factoring them in the prices to be considered by the bidders.

44. Overall, fiduciary compliance was Moderately Satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

45. Transition arrangement to post-completion operation. While most project targets have
been met, at the time of project closure several activities remain in implementation, including
the completion of 15 aerial maps (out of 28 maps to be financed by the Bank), 18 subprojects
(out of 89), 506 toilets (out of 2,235), and 5–10 percent of the UGD works. The level of progress
of all these activities is quite advanced and all of them are expected to be completed before the
end of 2015. To ensure this, the project implementation arrangement will remain in place and
                                               10
full support will be given for the financing of all pending activities, as formally recorded on the
Proceeding of the 31st Meeting of the EC on March 11, 2015. The EC approved financing to
complete all the KMRP investments that spill over beyond project closure in March 2015.

46. Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity. The government is aware of the
importance of consolidating all the institutional building initiatives supported by the project
and to that end has set up the Karnataka Municipal Data Society for continuing all the reforms
undertaken by the Municipal Reform Cell (MRC). The Karnataka Municipal Data Society will
continue to support e-governance initiatives across all ULBs; host and maintain all online
applications; engage in capacity-building activities related to the reforms; and develop further
online applications such as trade licenses, water tariff, asset management, and building plan
approvals. The ADB, through its ongoing urban operation (NKUSIP), will support these
initiatives until 2017.

47. Adequate staffing and management. The program trained 25,500 ULB and state-level
staff and it is expected that this will help sustain the reforms and contribute to the institutional
strengthening of the ULBs. The training module of the program also developed curricula for
17 competence areas and the associated training materials will be available for future training
programs. Since training is a continuous process, 132 trainers were also trained during the
project and another 100 resource persons identified to continue with the training programs. In
addition, as a result of all the training activities of the program, the State Institute of Urban
Development (SIUD), which is in charge of the training activities, has now instituted an urban
cell to expand its training programs in the urban areas.

48. Out of all the institutional training activities, the utilization of the aerial maps is the only
one that will require major efforts to ensure its sustainability. The ULBs are not yet fully aware
of the significance of aerial plans as critical tools for the planning and management of their
activities, so specific work plans, training, and capacity-building activities must be put in place
to ensure that these maps are used to their full potential. The ADB, through its ongoing NKUSIP
operation, will be supporting this area for the next two years.

49. The KUIDFC was substantially strengthened by implementing the KMRP and after project
completion it will continue with its institutional role of facilitating the implementation of
investments in the ULBs. Funding will come from other bilateral and multilateral institutions
(mostly the ADB and the Bank) and through central schemes.

50. O&M arrangements

   BWSSB. In 2013/14, the total income of the BWSSB (including water and other–than-
    water revenue) was INR 710 crore against INR 689 crore for all its current expenditures,
    indicating that the BWSSB generates sufficient revenues to cover its full O&M expenses.
    Sewerage fees amount to 25 percent of the water fees, which will bring additional revenues
    once the billing of all the new connections are regularized. In addition, the project acquired
    several vehicles for the routine maintenance of the new pipes and the BWSSB is in the final
    process of recruiting 400 additional staff (mostly finance staff and engineers) to support its
    operations. As for the pro-poor investments, interviews with beneficiaries carried out as
    part of an implementation assessment revealed a very strong sense of ownership, which
    commonly contributes to the proper maintenance of the private toilets. The BWSSB intends
    to retain the Social and Economic Cell established under the project to help implement
    activities to be supported by a JICA water project and by central government schemes like
    the Swachh Bharat Sanitation Mission.

   ULBs. In terms of the maintenance of the ULBs subprojects, even though the ratio of their
    operating revenue/expenditure was used to determine the size of the investments, in various
    cases the O&M is still financed by the state. This is the case of the ULBs that embarked on
    complex 24x7 water and UGD projects in which the state has agreed to partially subsidize
    the O&M costs for up to two years after construction. In the meantime, the ULBs must
                                                11
    strive to increase their own revenues, especially through increases in property taxes by
    implementing the reforms introduced by the project.

51. Next phase/follow-up operation. The KUIDFC focus is mostly on completing all project
activities, implementation of two ADB-supported water projects, and finalizing the preparation
of a Bank 24x7 water project (Karnataka Urban Water Sector Improvement Project, KUWSIP
II). At the time of project closing, no specific request for a follow-up urban operation has been
received. However, the government is aware that very valuable infrastructure has been built,
significant knowledge has been generated, and substantial capacity has been built in the ULBs
and the implementing agencies. The first phase of reforms has created a strong base for a
follow-up engagement. The government realizes that sustained engagement is essential to fully
realize the benefits of the reforms supported by this project. Preliminary discussions with the
government indicate that an eventual partnership with the Bank in the urban sector may include
support in the implementation of aerial and master plans and in the expansion of infrastructure
in 24x7 water supply systems, water reuse, UGD, and solid waste management.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

52. The development objectives of KMRP are considered highly relevant to both the
urban sector in the state and country and to the Bank’s priorities for India. Cities in India
are growing at a rapid rate, including in Karnataka, which has 39 percent of its population living
in urban areas. India’s 12th Five-Year Plan (2012–17) envisions increasing investment in urban
infrastructure; strengthening urban governance and institutional capacity; and enhancing the
financial sustainability of ULBs, all of which were supported by the KMRP. The high relevance
of the project is evidenced by the government’s attention to the urban sector, as illustrated by
the recent approval in June 2015 of three national urban schemes: Smart Cities, Atal Mission
for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation; and Housing for All. The objectives of the KMRP
are also highly relevant to the Bank’s 2013–2017 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for India
that recognizes urbanization as one of the three key strategic areas (spatial transformation) to
accomplish the Bank’s twin goals.

53. The relevance of design and implementation is considered to be Substantial. KMRP’s
complex design resulted from the implementation of a variety of institutional development and
service delivery activities in Greater Bangalore and in over 30 other urban centers in the State.
Despite the complexity of this multi-sector and multi-agency design, which is common in urban
operations, KMRP M&E system allowed for the timely and accurate monitoring of project
implementation and achievement of development objective. KMRP was successfully
implemented, contributing to: (a) the sustainability and capacity building of ULBs by
promoting policy reforms that will have long-term impacts; (b) the sustainability of municipal
infrastructure by the direct involvement of ULBs and state-level institutions in the drive for
reforms and in the management of investments; and (c) the expansion of services at a massive
scale to unplanned and slum areas through large investments in Greater Bangalore, the third
largest city in India,. In hindsight, an improvement in the original design and implementation
could have resulted from either a longer implementation period, or from an early preparation
of the Greater Bangalore UGD investment.

3.2 Achievement of PDOs

54. The project achieved its development objective of improving the delivery of urban
services in a substantial manner, as illustrated by the fact that two out of the three PDO
indicators outperformed their end targets by a wide margin, with only one PDO indicator being
10 percent short of its end target.

       PDO 1 - Improved municipal services: Throughout the state, 89 subprojects (71
        completed by project closure) in road rehabilitation, SWDs, water supply, drainage,
                                               12
        sanitation, and rainwater harvesting (RWH) were commissioned in 29 ULBs (target 32
        ULBs), benefiting an estimated 2 million citizens. The cost of subprojects ranged
        between US$150,000 and US$6 million. By the time of completion at the end of 2015,
        there will be an additional 500,000 beneficiaries through 18 subprojects that are still
        under implementation.
       PDO 2 - ULBs participating in institutional and TA activities: Improvements in service
        delivery also resulted from all 213 ULBs in Karnataka adhering to a series of
        institutional and financial reforms to better plan, manage, and finance urban services
        and infrastructure. The KMRP enabled an expansion and scale-up of a smaller ADB-
        supported reform program, from 49 (23 percent) ULBs to an additional 164 ULBs (77
        percent). This massive scale-up was highly ambitious and it was clearly a risk taking
        this approach. However, although it has taken time and enormous effort, the project did
        succeed in delivering transformative impact. The municipal e-governance
        subcomponent covers 18 million potential beneficiaries and has been recognized by
        eight different excellence awards (Information and Communication Technologies
        excellence award, e-India, e-Governance award, Best Urban Local Body award, and e-
        World award, among others).
       PDO 3 - New sewerage connections: Services notably improved in Greater Bangalore
        through the project’s engagement in one of the largest and most complex urban
        sewerage activities in India, expanding urban services to more than 150,000 households
        (target 120,000 connections) and providing direct benefits to an estimated 610,000
        residents.

55. Achievement of outcomes associated with the strengthening of the institutional and
financial frameworks for urban services at the ULB and state levels was Substantial, with
only one out of five component indicators not meeting its end of program target, as indicated
below:

       Karnataka is the second state in India to undertake a very ambitious set of reforms, in
        terms of sectors and coverage of ULBs. In terms of sectors, a computerized e-
        governance platform was completed for the following municipal functions: (a) Birth
        and Death Registration system that has issued over 14 million digitalized birth and
        death certificates; (b) PGR system that has processed over 1.7 million complaints; (c)
        Double Entry Accrual-based Accounting system linked to the budget process
        (including annual publication of accounts); and (d) the introduction of a GIS-based
        Property Tax system that has surveyed and assessed over 1.5 million properties in the
        KMRP ULBs alone.
       Regarding the number of ULBs covered by the reforms, the e-governance platform was
        fully rolled out to 213 ULBs. Of that coverage, 77 percent is attributable to the KMRP
        (164 ULBs) while the other 49 ULBs were financed by the ADB. The KMRP coverage
        corresponds to 18.2 million urban residents that could benefit from the reforms. The
        KMRP always intended to roll out the e-governance platform to 164 and not 169 ULBs
        as stated in the PAD, but this end-of-project target was never revised.
       Full roll-out of accounting reforms, in the areas of budget, balance sheets, and annual
        performance reporting, to 158 ULBs—the remaining 6 ULBs were supported by the
        ADB Nirmala Nagara Program.
       Adoption of a new Urban Finance Framework for the state.
       Training of over 25,000 staff (target of 8,700 staff) at the state and ULB levels in 21
        different areas of expertise for which curricula and materials were developed.
       Twelve completed geo-referenced, large-scale maps for land management purposes,
        covering over 1,000 km2, and another 16 maps being developed to cover an additional
        2,106 km2. This is the only institutional development activity that was not fully
        completed (202 maps were targeted at appraisal and 49 at MTR), but the contracts for
        the remaining maps are already commissioned under signed contracts and expected to
        be completed by September–October 2015. Reasons for the constant delay of this
        activity include the poor quality of local providers, a last minute pull out from Survey

                                              13
        of India to engage in the activity, and the significant time needed to obtain clearances
        from the Ministry of Defence, the latter two factors being outside the control of the
        implementing agency.

56. All these reform activities, with their associated positive outputs, contributed to the
intermediate outcome of strengthening the state and ULB institutional capacities, which in turn
has resulted in better delivery of urban services. Improvements in service delivery directly
attributed to the reforms include, among others, increased own source revenues (doubled from
2010 to 2015) to improve the financing (mostly operational expenses) of local services; less
financial leakages resulting from better bank reconciliations by using double entry accounting
at the ULB levels; opportunity costs savings in the individual costs for processing birth and
death certificates for the population in ULBs; and better human resources capacity at the ULB
and state level resulting from the KMRP’s training program. While the counterfactual indicates
that not much would have happened in the area of training in the absence of the KMRP, this
Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) recommends that more rigorous analysis
on the impact of trainings be done to gauge the effect of the training program on the
improvement of services.

57. Achievement of outcomes associated with enhancing the quality of urban
infrastructure was Substantial, with six out of seven relevant component indicators meeting
their end-of-program targets as follows:

       A total of 89 subprojects (71 completed by project closure) that brought benefits in a
        variety of urban services to over 2 million beneficiaries were implemented by 29 ULBs
        (target 32). The project’s approach to improvements in infrastructure was to empower
        the ULBs to procure, manage, and oversee urban investments. This learning-by-doing
        approach encountered several challenges (that is, problems in land acquisition, contract
        management, insufficient number of bidders, and so on), which explains the slight
        shortfall of this target by less than 10 percent.
       Urban road services improved through the construction of 125 km of roads in Greater
        Bangalore. Instead of 39 roads, 40 roads corresponding to 125 km (instead of 140 km)
        were built. The construction of the metro railway in Bangalore made the rehabilitation
        of one road section unnecessary, so the 15 km reduction had no material impact on
        performance of the network. The road work included rehabilitation of pavements,
        footpaths, drainage, street lighting, and signage. This work was completed on time.
       The project saw the successful implementation of one of the largest and most complex
        urban sewerage projects in India. This activity supported the very ambitious task of
        construction of the UGD of 308 km of main and trunk sewers, about 2,000 km of branch
        sewers and laterals, along with the restoration of about 2,000 km of roads affected by
        the sewerage construction program. Despite very difficult working conditions (that is,
        investments in high-density slums and valleys where sewers have to be laid under drain
        beds, and so on) the project managed to provide 152,167 new house service
        connections (target 120,000) and the number of connections is expected to reach a final
        figure of 175,580 connections once all the works are completed. At the time of project
        closure, 132,761 connections were fully operational, providing direct benefits to
        610,000 people.
       Despite the complexities of working in slums and the late start of the pro-poor
        sanitation activities, the project outperformed its original target of 10,000 households
        by serving close to 30,000 households (equivalent to 138,000 individual beneficiaries)
        with either toilets and/or sewerage connections. Most of the beneficiaries were low-
        income people, especially women. In addition, as a result of this intervention, 32 slums
        were declared open defecation free (ODF) with 100 percent of residents having access
        to toilets, UGD, and disposal.

58. All these physical outputs significantly contributed to the intermediate outcome of
improved urban infrastructure. They also contributed to the final outcome of improved service
delivery by increasing the coverage and access to urban services. The Municipal Investments
                                              14
Support component brought in important infrastructure investments to numerous ULBs that
would not have materialized without the KMRP due to the ULBs’ lack of access to capital
financing. Similarly, the counterfactual indicates (as was explored at appraisal) that the big
UGD would have not been financed by other sources of revenue. Thus, the KMRP investments
directly benefited over 2.5 million residents, who would have been left underserviced otherwise.
In addition to the direct benefits of the investments, the KMRP’s technical innovations in the
water supply and sanitation (WSS) sector will provide indirect benefits in future investments
in Karnataka. Following the innovations of the KMRP in the WSS sector, Karnataka is planning
to implement a series of 24x7 water projects to be financed by the ADB and expanding the
UGD network of Greater Bangalore to 110 additional villages.

3.3 Efficiency

59. The efficiency of KMRP investments is considered to be Substantial. At appraisal, the
roads, the underground drainage and the pro-poor sanitation sub-projects of the Bangalore
Development component were assessed using cost-benefit analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis
and benefit analysis respectively. Meanwhile, standard economic methodologies were
prescribed to appraise sub-projects to be identified under the municipal investment support
component. These included cost-benefit analysis for water supply projects and cost-
effectiveness analysis for projects with non-quantifiable benefits.

60. During the ICR, each of the three subprojects under the Bangalore Development
component was assessed individually. Investments in a sample of three ULBs from the
Municipal Investment Support component were also assessed. These ULBs (Chintamani,
Chikkaballapur and Nanjangud) together represent two of the largest investments in water and
sanitation (sewerage), as well as a mix of investments representative of the larger group of
investments undertaken under the component. In total projects accounting for 63% of the costs
of KMRP were assessed.

61. Cost-benefit analysis was used to assess the Bangalore pro-poor sanitation sub-component,
and the water supply sub-projects in Chintamani and Nanjangud. Benefit cost ratio was
assessed for the Chintamani urban roads sub-project. In the absence of data from the time of
completion of the Bangalore Road Rehabilitation sub-component in 2009, a cost-effectiveness
analysis was used in place of a cost-benefit analysis for the roads sub-component. Cost
effectiveness analysis was also used to assess the under-ground drainage sub-component and
other sub-projects under the municipal investment component. The results are summarized in
the subsequent paragraphs and are presented in greater detail in Annex 3.

62. Municipal Investment Support Component. The 24x7 water supply sub-project in
Nanjangud and the Chintamani water supply augmentation sub-project had ERRs of 20%
(subproject appraisal estimate: 13.4%) and 34% (no subproject appraisal estimate available)
respectively. The unit costs of the new underground drainage network in Chikkaballapur and
augmentation of the existing underground drainage network in Chintamani had significantly
lower costs (a) per household connected and (b) per million liters per day of investment costs
for sewerage treatment costs compared to the estimates of the 2011 HPEC Report and the
Economics of Sanitation Initiative. The unit costs of rainwater harvesting in Chintamani was
lower than the unit costs of a similar project in Maharashtra. Investments in slum upgrading
(involving minor road rehabilitation and storm water drainage) yielded a benefit of INR1.9 for
every rupee of investment cost.

63. Bangalore Development Component. In the absence of data on ex post traffic/beneficiary
or accident surveys conducted on completion of the road rehabilitation sub-projects, the unit
costs of the Bangalore Road Rehabilitation sub-component were compared with unit costs
under the Bank-financed Second Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project. Unit costs
under KMRP are comparable, despite KMRP roads in Bangalore being urban roads, which are
typically designed to higher standards. The Greater Bangalore Underground Drainage Sub-
component resulted in high property value increases as estimated at appraisal and provided
                                              15
significant savings to beneficiary households, in particular to poor households, on their monthly
sanitation expenditures. Costs incurred per household and unit costs of sewerage contracts (per
KM) were found to be comparable respectively with the estimates of the High Powered
Committee Expert Committee for comparable Class IC towns and unit costs of sewerage
contracts awarded in 2015 under the Bank-supported National Ganga River Basin Project.
Based on increased property values, savings in monthly household sanitation expenditures, and
time saving, the Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation sub-component is estimated to have
generated an ERR of 78%.

64. Financial Analysis. The financial performance of BBMP, BWSSB, and the three ULBs
(Chikkaballapur, Chintamani, and Nanjangud) were assessed at completion to determine their
ability to operate and maintain project created assets and service KMRP sub-project loans.
BBMP’s revenues and operating surpluses during 2009-10 to 2011-12 exceeded appraisal
estimates and BBMP is assessed to be capable of sustaining investments. BWSSB has been in
deficit since 2005-6 and financial forecasts for 2015-20 indicate that it will continue to need
GoK support, especially for its capital investment program. BWSSB will need to improve its
operational efficiency by decreasing non-revenue water, implementing energy efficiency
programs, and implement cost recovery tariffs. Chikkaballapur, Chintamani, and Chintamani
will continue to rely heavily on grant revenues to augment their limited own source revenues.

65. Administrative Efficiency. KMRP was designed as a five year project. As discussed in
Section 2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry, the Bangalore Development
Component was not ready for implementation on project approval and the Municipal
Investment Support Component involved a large number of ULBs. As a result, despite strong
efforts by the implementing agencies and the Bank, the project required an extension of three
years, with some planned activities to be completed after the closing date. In addition, some
innovations were added to the project during implementation (e.g., 24x7 water supply) which
delayed implementation and increased costs; however, these are offset by the improved service
coverage and cost-effective solutions. The commingling of central government funds
(JNNURM) reduced Bank contribution to UGD. On balance, administrative efficiency is
considered substantial.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

66. The project’s development objectives remain highly relevant as evidenced by the emphasis
on the urban sector in the12th Five-Year Plan (2012–17) and the launch of three Urban Schemes
by GOI in 2015; the continuous engagement of Karnataka in the urban sector through other
ADB (urban) and Bank (water) projects; the importance placed by the Bank’s 2013–17 CPS on
spatial transformation; and by the recent requests for Bank financing of similar operations in
other states. The relevance of the project’s design was substantial. Further, the project
substantially achieved its original intended development outcomes with targets of 12 out of 15
indicators met or exceeded with regard to both institutional reforms and physical investments.
While the institutional reforms benefited a potential number of 18 million people, over 2.5
million people benefited from municipal investments in urban centers through the state, and
over 600,000 people in the Greater Bangalore area, (of which 88,000 are poor) benefited from
underground sewerage. Finally, despite the loan extensions, the economic benefits outweighed
the costs and delays of the project, resulting in substantial positive returns on investment.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

67. Poverty impacts. By design, the scope to assess issues relating to poverty and gender in
this project were limited to the Great Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation Program. Despite huge
technical challenges in laying sewerage lines in difficult terrain on hilly and marginal lands
                                               16
where a number of slums are located, the program outperformed its original targets (10,000
households) by providing 2,202 toilets (1,696 toilets constructed and 506 under construction)
and 29,745 sewerage connections (12,457 of which are still to be regularized) in 101 declared
slums in Bangalore. These investments directly benefited 138,000 people, many of them poor.
In addition, as a result of the pro-poor activities, 32 slums acquired an ODF status, with
expected positive health and economic benefits to the poor. Slum dwellers also benefited from
the promotion of hygiene and health education campaigns that reached 15,778 households in
52 slums.

68. Gender and inclusion aspects. The project design did not include any direct gender-
related interventions but women benefitted in a number of ways. First, the benefits of a number
of the subprojects had particularly positive impacts on women; for example, the expansion of
water supply to about 120,000 people alleviated the hardships of women in fetching water from
distant places. Second, the pro-poor activities also had direct impacts on women. Focus group
discussions (FGDs) with the communities and case studies that were conducted during
implementation revealed that the pro-poor sanitation activities significantly benefited women,
adolescent girls, and girl children living in program slums (Ghosh and Chature 2014). As stated
by the women beneficiaries, their safety, dignity, and self-respect were significantly and
positively enhanced as a direct result of the program. Third, other benefits included comfort,
privacy, and convenience of use, at any time of the day, of individual toilets. Women, and men
to a lesser extent, also benefited from time savings in access to latrines/place for defecation (on
average, 1.5 hours per day per person), resulting in freeing up of productive time.

69. The pro-poor sanitation activities also had positive impacts on the elderly and disabled.
Elderly people and those with visual, speech, and hearing disabilities benefited in terms of
comfort, convenience, and ease of access to toilets, as well as independence from the need for
support to access toilets. The program also provided for additional support to the elderly and
disabled people who did not have the means to construct the toilets themselves. Finally, time
savings of caregivers (to the disabled and elderly) in the order of one hour per day were also
reached.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

70. The KMRP helped expand and scale up a nascent institutional reform program that had
started with ADB support in 49 ULBs to all 213 ULBs in the state. As a ‘municipal reform
program’, with an ambitious US$23 million Institutional Development component, the project
brought substantive results in the areas of policy reform and institutional capacity building
across various areas in 77 percent of all the ULBs in the state. In addition to these overarching
impacts (see section 3.2 and annex 2), the KMRP introduced some innovative institutional
changes (see paragraphs 73 to 76).

71. Capacity building at a large and sustainable scale: The implementation of the project’s
training program through state institutions consolidated the SIUD as a nodal institution for
capacity building in urban areas in Karnataka and beyond. The SIUD has not only already
developed 17 core urban-related courses but also trained over 100 trainers to continue building
capacity on these areas. Also, as needs evolve and urban issues become more complex, the
SIUD now has the foundation to develop additional courses, for example, in urban mobility.
Because of the work done through the KMRP, the SIUD is now advising other states on how
to run urban courses.

72. Safeguards capacity: As a result of the continuous supervisions and safeguard reviews of
various project activities, which resulted in several trainings and capacity enhancement
initiatives, the safeguard management capacities of the KUIDFC and BWSSB were
substantially strengthened. This additional capacity is now being put into action in several other
activities undertaken in the urban sector through central government schemes and other projects.



                                                17
73. Technical innovations: The innovative technical approaches that were tried in the ULB and
the Greater Bangalore investments created a strong institutional capacity to implement similar
projects in the future. This is evident in the case of the three 24x7 water projects that the
KUIDFC is now trying to implement in 20 other towns with support from the ADB. Similarly,
working on very challenging physical and institutional conditions taught the BWSSB how to
handle big sewerage projects that it is now looking to expand to 110 additional villages in
Greater Bangalore, covering an area of 225 km2, benefiting over half a million people. On the
pro-poor component, substantial capacity was built through the creation of the Social and
Economic cell that for the first time allowed the BWSSB to enter the slums. Despite various
challenges, the BWSSB has now basic knowledge and experience in pro-poor sanitation that
will prove very valuable in the implementation of several central government schemes that are
coming up in the area of sanitation. Innovation in the area of reforms is also commendable,
with the introduction of better and more efficient policies in the areas of property taxation,
demand-side governance, accrual accounting, e-services, and others. Similar efforts are now
being undertaken in other states like Madhya Pradesh, for example.

74. Spatial planning: Despite the challenges to complete the aerial maps and to train ULBs to
use them as the basis of their urban development, in the places where they have become
available, aerial maps are having a very positive impact on the way in which infrastructure and
urban development is being planned. The KUIDFC envisions that in the future most planning
will be done on the basis of aerial maps.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative): Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

75. The project did not conduct a final beneficiary assessment. However, as part of project
implementation, a study was commissioned to look into the pro-poor sanitation component,
which included focus group interviews with several beneficiaries (Ghosh and Chature 2014).
Overall, several positive impacts and outcomes were observed, including (a) increased access
to toilets by the poorest households; (b) improved overall environment in program slums; (c)
improved quality of life of the poor in terms of safety, convenience, and dignity; and (d)
sanitation and hygiene behavior change among beneficiaries (see annex 5).

76. As part of the final assessment of the program, the SIUD conducted a third-party evaluation
of its training program. Out of 17 courses, 12 were evaluated in two phases: concurrent
evaluation and impact assessment. The concurrent evaluation looked into (a) the process
involved in organizing the training programs; (b) the availability and quality of the
infrastructure and the quality of the faculty or trainers; and (c) the contents and delivery of the
curriculum. The impact assessment looked at (a) the impact of the training programs conducted
by the SIUD on the knowledge, skill, and attitudes of the participants; (b) the impact of the
training programs on improvements in achieving the outcomes of the SIUD; and (c)
modifications for making the future training programs more useful. Overall, the evaluation
highlighted a positive impact in terms of the participants’ knowledge, skill, and attitudes. Some
limited impact in these areas was associated with the lack of adequate personnel to be trained
at the local level and with the fact that some areas for training could have been more closely
linked to the type of investments or activities financed by specific projects or programs. A
related issue that came up is that as the role of private contractors becomes more salient in the
provision of services and the role of government moves from service provider to monitor or
regulator, trainings and expertise in contract management (as opposed to traditional training in
municipal services) become more critical.

77. Finally, at project closure, the KUIDFC administered a simple questionnaire to all ULBs
that were engaged with urban infrastructure and reforms initiatives to get their views on the
impact of the KMRP. Of the ULBs consulted, 50 percent (15) completed the questionnaire that
assessed 10 different areas of support according to their level of usefulness—from ‘Not Useful’
to ‘Very Useful’. The consolidated results from the questionnaire show that, in general,
                                                18
between 75 percent and 80 percent of the beneficiary ULBs who responded to the survey found
the KMRP useful or very useful.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

78. The risk that internal and external changes may result in the development outcomes not
being maintained is considered to be moderate. The government has put several actions in place
to minimize risks (see section 2.5): (a) the state EC’s formal commitment to fund all ongoing
activities under the KMRP until their completion; (b) the institutionalization of the reforms in
the Karnataka Municipal Data Society; (c) capacity building through the training of 25,500 staff
and 132 trainers; (d) increases in property taxes that will contribute to the maintenance of the
investments through higher O&M budgets; and (e) the positive net operating balance of the
BWSSB that will become stronger as all the sewerage connections are regularized. In addition,
the recent recommendation from the 14th Finance Commission to triple the amount of transfers
going to the ULBs will also be a contributing factor towards the sustainability of the
investments.

79. Although these measures will help maintain both the institutional and physical outcomes,
some challenges remain and warrant a risk rating of Moderate. These include: (a) permanent
efforts to recruit and train municipal staff on a permanent basis; (b) continued efforts, despite
increases in the ULBs revenues to cover O&M completely; (c) ensure adequate training for the
full utilization of the aerial plans for urban planning; and (d) despite the migration of the
reforms to the Karnataka Municipal Data Society and its future two years of financing by the
ADB, it is yet to be seen whether the society will manage to provide the support needed to keep
all the systems up and running throughout the whole state.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

80. During project preparation and appraisal, the Bank considered alternative approaches and
lessons learned in similar operations, and ensured that they were incorporated into the project
design. The Bank team was adequately staffed and took into account all major aspects of project
design, including technical, financial, economic, institutional, and fiduciary analyses. Project
preparation took over three years, giving the Bank enough time to properly design the
institutional development and municipal investment support components. However, the late
incorporation of the Greater Bangalore UGD Program increased the complexity of project
design and rendered the original project duration unrealistic. The Greater Bangalore UGD
Program, which represented 45% of the loan amount, was not fully prepared at the time of
appraisal, resulting in the contracts for UGD investments being signed four years after
effectiveness, i.e., 1.5 years before the original closing date. QAG’s assessment of the project
under Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio (QALP) underscored the additional
complexity resulting from the late addition of UGD investments to KMRP, which resulted in
KMRP becoming both a municipal development project and an infrastructure project.

81. Other shortcomings that compromised the quality at entry include: (a) an underestimation
of the complexities involved in coordinating complementary investments financed by different
sources (i.e., separating the financing of a sewerage network from that of sewerage treatment
plants); (b) an overestimation of the capacity of government agencies to acquire land in a timely
manner, as discussed in section 2.1; and (c) the pro-poor sanitation sub-component not being
fully designed at appraisal, resulting in an overestimation of demand for toilets and the lack of

                                               19
articulation of toilet construction and sewerage connections—which was corrected during the
project’s first restructuring.

82. An earlier request by government to incorporate the Greater Bangalore UGD Program into
KMRP could have greatly helped to ensure implementation readiness of the project. However,
the Bank’s decision to be responsive to the government’s need came at a cost, as the some
preparatory activities took place during implementation, thus adding time for project
completion. The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is therefore considered
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

83. The project was adequately supervised throughout its almost nine years of implementation.
An average of two supervision missions were conducted each year and 20 ISRs were filed. In
addition, staff from the country office provided continuous support throughout implementation,
which was highly valued by the client. Overall, the project ratings in the ISRs were realistic
and issues for management attention were highlighted in a clear and timely manner. However,
ISR ratings could have been more candid around the first extension of the project in January
2012; achievement of the PDO was rated Satisfactory and implementation progress was rated
Moderately Satisfactory, just three months short of the original closing date, when only 42% of
the loan had been disbursed.

84. Because of the challenges on project design discussed in the quality at entry section,
supervision was resource intensive and focused heavily on helping to resolve implementation
difficulties. The complex project design required both municipal development and
infrastructure expertise. A multi-sector team consisting of institutional, social, and financial
experts, as well as water, sanitation and road engineers, diligently supervised project activities.
The Bank made enormous efforts to supervise complex institutional reforms as well as over 30
urban works scattered throughout the State, and particularly the complex UGD and pro-poor
sanitation works, which required a different skills compared to a typical municipal development
project.

85. The supervision of fiduciary and safeguard aspects was sound, especially during the initial
phases of implementation when a series of difficulties emerged, including lack of compliance
with safeguards and fiduciary procedures. The Bank devoted sufficient resources, including
management attention and hands-on implementation support, to ensure compliance with the
Bank’s fiduciary requirements. The QALP considered various aspects of environmental
supervision as best practice.

86. Supervision reporting was candid and realistic and problems were detected in due time and
prompt corrective action taken. For example, two years into implementation, the project went
through a series of difficulties (e.g., slow implementation and disbursements, breach of legal
covenants, and misuse of funds in the Bangalore Roads sub-component) and the Bank took a
series of key decisions, including downgrading of project ratings (IP, PDO, fiduciary, and
components) and adopting an action plan to address the issues. As a result, by the MTR, the
project was back on track.

87. Supervision inputs were well planned and maintained throughout the almost nine years of
implementation. Despite the length of the project, the task team leader changed only once and
most of the team members remained in place for the duration of the project. This, together with
the ready availability of most fiduciary and technical specialists from the country office,
facilitated dialogue with the client and helped resolve issues in a timely manner. The
government was highly appreciative of this availability, and considered it the most important
value added by the Bank. Despite persistent delays and quality at entry issues, the Bank’s strong


                                                20
supervision efforts enabled project activities to be completed with very substantial development
impact. In view of this, Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

88. With a Moderately Unsatisfactory rating for quality at entry and a Satisfactory rating for
supervision, as well as the Outcome rating of Satisfactory, overall Bank performance is rated
as Moderately Satisfactory in accordance with the harmonized rating criteria of the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG).

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

89. The GOK remained committed to the objectives of the project during project preparation
and implementation: (a) it remained engaged with the policy reforms; (b) reviews and approvals
were done in a timely manner; (c) expenditures were authorized on time; (d) no counterpart
funding problems were ever present; and (e) government officials worked closely with the
Bank's project team, for example, during the processing of the project restructurings.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

90. The project was implemented by five agencies: DMA, DTP, KUIDFC, BBMP, and
BWSSB and the ULBs themselves. The overall rating of their combined performance is
considered to be Moderately Satisfactory. Some of these entities had no previous Bank
experience, so substantial capacity and trainings were needed to get them up to speed. The
KUIDFC, which carried out all aspects of project management, showed good ability to learn
and with appropriate staffing, training, and TA, its performance was rated as Satisfactory. The
BWSSB and BBMP, which were, respectively, in charge of the Greater Bangalore sewerage
and roads investments, encountered various hurdles that called for close Bank supervision. The
BWSSB very aptly dealt with very complex procurement and technical issues in the sewerage
component, including organizing vendor conferences to simplify and clarify the bid documents,
and made several technical adjustments to lay down over 2,000 km of sewerage pipes under
very challenging circumstances, also showing a Satisfactory performance. On the other hand,
the performance of the BBMP, which was in charge of the roads subproject, was Unsatisfactory,
primarily due to their continued failure to submit financial reports on time and the fact that
repayments of ineligible expenditures had to be processed.

91. The DMA and DTP, which supported the implementation of the Institutional Development
component, showed a Satisfactory and Moderately Satisfactory performance, respectively.
Both managed to produce timely reports and accounts for the use of funds and project results.
In addition, the DMA led a very ambitious reform program, in close coordination with the ADB
as well as with the ULBs and various other government departments. The DTP, on the other
hand, was slow in getting the procurement of the maps under way. Although delays were also
due to factors beyond the DTP (for example, very lengthy clearances from the Ministry of
Defense), the whole production of maps could have been more strategically handed at the initial
stages of implementation, preventing the completion of some of the maps going beyond project
closure.

92. Lastly, the performance of the ULBs varied widely. By design, the ULBs were intended to
fully own the investments, so they played an active role in their planning, procurement,

                                              21
supervision, and maintenance. Based on the assessment of the KUIDFC and the interviews and
site visits with the ULBs during implementation and at the time of project closing, their
performance is considered to be Moderately Satisfactory, with some of the ULBs proactively
dealing with their problems and seeking KUIDFC support but with many others not being
proactive and showing lack of ownership, leading to implementation delays and, eventually,
lack of sustainability.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

93. With a Satisfactory rating for government performance and a Moderately Satisfactory
rating for implementing agencies’ performance, overall borrower performance is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory, in accordance with IEG’s harmonized rating criteria.

6. Lessons Learned

94. Reforms and infrastructure investments take time to implement. The KMRP was a
complex project, covering various sectors and geographical areas, and was implemented by
five different state-level agencies and 29 ULBs. KMRP’s original implementation period of 5.6
years was an underestimate for such a complex project in India, where the average project
implementation period is 7–8 years. Project duration should be determined realistically at
appraisal, based on complexity, instead of being overly influenced by the norm of 4–6 years.
In addition, the Bank and the client must candidly assess the pros and cons of adding large
components at a late stage that add to project complexity.

95. Arriving at the right mix of project activities is difficult and requires trade-offs to be
made. The KMRP demonstrated the difficulty of balancing the financing of big investments
(and disbursements) in a mega UGD component versus the low-tech and small investments in
toilets and sewerage connections is slums. The KMRP experience also showed that getting
WSS utilities and Bank projects to focus on service delivery, especially for the poor, is not easy.
The pro-poor subcomponent represented only three percent of project financing, but added
significant complexity to the project. However, it improved services to the poor, which is the
core mandate of the Bank.

96. Financing and implementation of municipal projects through state-level institutions
calls for a delicate balance between state-level support and local ownership. The KMRP
successfully completed work on reforms and investments by having a very strong technical
presence from the KUIDFC in the form of dedicated staff in each of the ULBs. In some cases,
municipal project implementation units looked after program activities. The KUIDFC presence
at the regional/district levels was also instrumental in overseeing and providing back up support
at the ULB level. To foster local ownership, ULBs were given the flexibility to determine their
own project priorities, inviting tenders, selecting contractors, and ensuring quality during
implementation. ULBs were also empowered through the creation and strengthening of local
systems of accounting, e-governance, taxation, etc., and through continuous training courses.
Despite these efforts, local ownership was not fully achieved, among other things, because the
inability of some ULBs to cover their O&M costs. These shortcomings arose both because
creating capacity is a long-term process, and because some ‘structural weaknesses’ of ULBs in
India, which are beyond the project’s influence, e.g., autonomy over human resource policies
and tax regimes.

97. The size of investments is of critical importance when working through a municipal
fund. The KMRP showed that, ideally, selected projects must strike a balance between
substantial impact on beneficiaries and the ULB’s capacity to generate resources to service debt
and finance O&M. However, there is often a trade-off between the size or impact of the projects
and the local capacity to manage the investments. The KMRP brought to light issues at both
ends of the spectrum. While ‘setting the bar low’ (by specifying minimum size investments)
                                                22
allowed small ULBs to access KMRP funds, these small projects resulted in high transaction
costs and had low impact. At the other end, the KUIDFC continues to be involved in O&M of
some of the bigger projects due to a lack of financial and technical capacity at ULBs. Going
forward, as both small and large projects may be needed, Bank projects could consider adopting
different procedures under a ‘small’ versus ‘large’ window.

98. Successful introduction of new ideas or standards takes time and continuous
adjustment during implementation. However, because they can be transformative, it is
crucial to create adequate space, time, and tolerance for such innovations rather than sacrifice
them for easier operations and faster disbursement. The KMRP offers the experience of 24x7
water projects, which the KUIDFC is now rolling out to other cities under a Bank water project
(KUWSIP II) and through an ADB operation. Based on the 24x7 water pilots in KUWSIP I,
the KMRP scaled up the approach and financed full-fledged 24x7 water projects in some of the
smaller cities. While this added complexity to the project and resulted in a longer
implementation period, the KUIDFC is particularly appreciative of the Bank’s support for this
innovative approach and for the capacity it helped create in managing these types of
investments.

99. Stimulating the supply for goods and services may help expedite project
implementation. The KMRP has shown that where there are no responsive bids from the
market, it is essential to reach out to potential bidders to explain the scope of work and clarify
issues. BWSSB organized training, meetings, and vendor conferences to simplify and clarify
bid documents. This increased competition and resulted in high-quality proposals at
competitive prices. Similarly, in the case of municipal sub-projects, the Bank worked closely
with counterpart agencies and ULBs to share and incorporate lessons learned from the bidding
of the initial packages/lots, including: better dissemination of bidding opportunities,
introduction of modifications to technical specifications, scope, and packaging of bids, etc. This
resulted in increased competition and better quality and prices. In general, procurement of
goods and services under Bank rules was recognized by the government as a major value added
by the Bank.

100. Service utilities often lack appropriate skills to work in slums . The pro-poor
component of the project showed that although BWSSB is well-equipped to handle technical
complexities, it had to set up an economic and social unit to address issues of a social nature.
However, the motivation levels of field personnel was often low because they were mostly on
contracts (as opposed to full-time staff). This could have been avoided, at least partially, by
directly involving NGOs with experience working in slums and dealing with social and
community issues. Alternatively, full-time staff could have been assigned, with better
incentives and recognition for their contributions.

101. Setting up beneficiary contributions correctly is a critical success factor in pro-poor
sanitation. The KMRP required 50 percent beneficiary (excluding the poorest households)
contribution for toilet construction, which proved to be too much for some households. Future
interventions can address this either through a willingness to pay (WTP) assessment as part of
project preparation or through a more flexible approach on beneficiary contributions during
implementation.

102. Targeting the poor is difficult and requires extensive preparatory work. KMRP’s
initial estimation of a demand for 10,000 toilets was an overestimate by a factor of three. The
program was designed for notified slums, whereas the highest demand for toilets was in the
undeclared slums, which were left out of the program. Although the project might have missed
the poorest of the poor by excluding the undeclared slums, it managed to serve the slum
population which is often not provided services. Future pro-poor operations may consider
covering undeclared slums where many of the poorest live.

103. Not only toilets but connections. The project adjusted its approach to achieving the goal
of improved sanitation by moving beyond the provision of toilets and allocating time and
                                               23
money to the task of connecting both new and existing toilets to the sewerage network.
Experience under the project shows that toilet construction should usually be accompanied by
a program to connect the toilets to the sewerage system and that this cannot be left to the
beneficiaries alone.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies: See annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers: Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders: Not applicable




                                            24
                      Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$, Million equivalent)
                                  Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                       Percentage of
          Components            Estimate (US$,     Estimate (US$,
                                                                        Appraisal
                                   millions)          millions)
 Component A                           28.40               16.20            57
 Component B                           90.00               74.90            83
 Component C                         179.80              171.10             95
 Component D                           11.30               14.40           127
            Total Baseline Cost      309.46              276.60             89
 Physical Contingencies                  0.00               0.00            0
 Price Contingencies                     0.00               0.00            0
            Total Project Costs      309.46              276.60             89
 Front-end Fee PPF                       0.00               0.00            0
 Front-end Fee IBRD                      0.54               0.54           100
     Total Financing Required        310.00              277.14             89


(b) Financing
                                              Appraisal Actual/Lates
                                    Type of   Estimate   t Estimate Percentage
         Source of Funds
                                  Cofinancing  (US$,        (US$,    of Appraisal
                                              millions)   millions)
Borrower                                        85.00        0.00       0.00
International Bank for
                                                  216.00      185.70        85.90
Reconstruction and Development
Local Sources of Borrowing
                                                    9.00        0.00         0.00
Country
Total                                             310.00




                                         25
                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component

A. Institutional Development Component

Computerization of Municipal Functions

1. The objective of this initiative was to create a municipal e-governance platform to improve
the delivery of public services in the state. In the first phase, the platform supported the
development of the following four specific applications: (a) Property Taxation with GIS; (b)
Fund-based Double Entry Accrual Accounting: (c) PGR; and (d) Birth and Death Registration.
In the last few years more applications have been taken up, including service-level
benchmarking; asset management; and water tariff online applications. The ADB supported the
development and implementation of the applications in 49 ULBs, and the Bank rolled them out
to an additional 164, to cover all the ULBs in the state. Today, nearly a decade since this
initiative was started, the following outputs have been accomplished:

e-Governance Platform

   All 213 ULBs in Karnataka are part of a municipal e-governance platform/network,
    centrally housed and managed by the MRC at the DMA. All ULBs have websites that act
    as gateways to access all other applications and also as a one-point source of information
    pertaining to ULBs.
   The MRC (comprising about 55 staff) functions as a completely self-sufficient information
    technology unit. In addition to hosting and maintaining all the ULBs databases and web-
    based applications, the MRC also develops new applications and modules, provides
    trouble-shooting services to the ULBs, and provides training for ULB staff in this area.
   Each ULB has an information technology/e-governance staff member who manages a team
    of 3–5 staff who provide support to all online services.
   The e-governance platform provides useful information on public grievances and the
    financial health of the ULBs which was not easily available earlier.
   The ULB revenues have gone up steadily as a result of (a) assessing 34 percent of
    unassessed properties that were already part of the tax net; (b) reduction of tax revenue
    leakages due to the use of the birth and death registration system; and (c) greater efficiency
    in the managing of deliverables due to accrual-based accounting.
   Citizen/ULB communication and interface has increased.

GIS-based Property Tax Assessment and Payment

   The property tax valuation was changed from annual rental value assessment to a capital
    value method, and a ‘self-assessment system’ was put in place.
   The revenue departments of all the ULBs were computerized and a GIS-based Property
    Tax Information System was put in place.
   Field surveys using digitized ward maps with individual properties and with a unique
    property ID number were conducted in a total of over 1.5 million properties.
   A comprehensive database of all the properties with automatic calculation of the property
    tax obligations and a software to handle different modalities of payment, including the
    ability to integrate with credit card and ATM systems, was completed.
   Cadastral-level GIS maps were generated for over 200,000 km2, covering over 3.8 million
    properties in the state (1.5 million under the Bank and 2.3 million under the ADB). This is
    the largest and most comprehensive GIS initiative in India, to date.
   Around 400,998 unassessed properties were brought into the tax net.

Online Birth and Death Registration and Certification

   Online registration at the ULB or through a hospital with an automated computer-generated
    registration ID was operationalized for birth and death certificates.
                                               26
   Computerized birth and death certificates were issued to the citizens, covering a backlog
    from the past 10 years.
   Since 1990, around 14 million birth and death certificates have been digitalized.
   Since 2011, 1.2 million certificates have been issued, generating US$200,000 in revenues.

PGR Module

   The PGR enables citizens to easily register their complaints or suggestions with the ULBs
    and track them. It provides multiple access channels—Internet (online), phone, and paper
    form—for registration of complaints. It shows the trends and patterns on the type and
    location of problems across the city.
   The PGR allows for faster and systematic redressal of complaints, escalation of complaints
    to higher authorities, and state-level monitoring of complaints.
   The PGR has been implemented across all the ULBs in the state. Since 2011, the PGR has
    received 1.7 million complaints and processed over 95 percent of those.

Fund-based Double Entry Accounting Accrual System (FBDEAAS)

   The FBDEAAS has been implemented in all the ULBs.
   With the FBDEAAS, accounts of assets, liabilities, incomes, and expenses of the ULBs in
    a double entry system have been generated.
   Financial reports for disclosing financial performance and the status of ULBs have been
    generated in over 190 ULBs.
   Accounts of ULBs have been published annually, increasing transparency.
   The following legal/statutory provisions were completed as part of the KMRP: Accounting
    and Budget Rules; Municipal Accounting Manual; Opening Balance Sheets Preparation
    Guidelines; Asset Management and Valuation Methodology Manual; and Municipal
    Accounts Audit Manual.
   The budget, opening balance sheets, and annual performance reports are completed in all
    the ULBs (the remaining six ULBs have also been completed but under the ADB Nirmala
    Nagara program).

Land Management and Planning

   An Urban Mapping Cell (UMC) under the Department of Plan and Country Planning was
    set up to prepare scientific base maps for all urban areas.
   The UMC is supported by 38 technical positions, 28 of which were filled under the project.
    The recruitment of 10 additional individual consultants is under way with ADB funding.
   Three packages containing 28 urban areas were procured under the KMRP and the status
    is as follows:
    o Package 1, completed: It comprises 12 urban areas with satellite imagery and 1 area
         (Hassan) with the Total Station technique, covering 1,143 km2 of surveyed land and
         10,634 maps.
    o Package 2, under implementation: It comprises 5 urban areas with satellite imagery,
         covering 1,007 km2 of surveyed land and 641 maps. A contract was signed in August
         2013. Digital data has been submitted for 4 areas and the preparation of maps is under
         way. Work is to be completed by October 2015.
    o Package 3, under implementation: It comprises 11 urban areas with satellite imagery,
         covering 1,099 km2 of surveyed land and 642 maps. Geo-referencing and
         orthorectification completed for the 11 areas and the preparation of maps is under way.
         Work is to be completed by September 2015.

Capacity Building

2. Based on a Capacity Enhancement Needs Assessment study undertaken by PwC, 21 areas
of training were identified. The development of the curricula and the training of municipal

                                              27
functionaries in 17 of these areas were undertaken by the SIUD and the other 4 areas by the
MRC.

Training through SIUD
 Developed and approved 17 curricula in the areas of human resources, governance, legal,
   FM, technology, and social issues
 Trained 132 trainers and identified 100 resource people
 Trained 12,318 urban functionaries, including officials of the ULBs and elected
   representatives of the ULBs over a period of two years
 Completed third-party evaluation of 12 programs assessing the knowledge, attitude, and
   skills of the training activities
 Developed and recorded e-lectures by experts for various topics
 Developed e-learning modules for 4 topics
 Published 7 handbooks on various topics (FM, e-governance, and so on)
 Produced 7 films on municipal governance issues

Training through MRC
 Developed and approved 4 curricula in the areas of computerization, budgeting, and
   accounting
 Trained 13,220 officials in the areas of computerization, double entry and accrual
   accounting, asset management, and standard-level benchmarking

B.       Municipal Investment Support Component

3. This component financed subprojects in urban basic services in 29 ULBs outside Bangalore.
The subprojects were grouped into 4 packages, consisting of 89 subprojects, amounting to a
total cost of US$72.2 million. The subprojects covered the following sectors: Roads, SWD,
UGD, RWH, Water Supply, and Low Cost Sanitation (LCS). At the time of project closure, 71
subprojects (80 percent) have been completed and 18 are under advanced progress of
implementation. In terms of geographic composition, the top three ULBs, Kollegala,
Nanjangud, and Hassan, amounted to 25 percent of the total investments. As of sectoral
composition, investments took place primarily in drainage (44 percent), water supply (28
percent), and road rehabilitation (26 percent). The total number of beneficiaries of the
municipal investments is about 2.5 million, out of which benefits for 2 million have already
materialized and the remaining half a million will benefit once all projects are complete,
especially the 24x7 water projects. The physical outputs and estimated benefits for the
subprojects are as follows:

Roads
    Number of subprojects: 16
    Physical output: 230 km of roads and drains
    Estimated beneficiaries: 1,389,245

UGD
        Number of subprojects: 8 (4 completed and 4 under implementation)
        Physical output: 53,843 connections (27,383 completed and 26,460 in progress); 431
         km of network and 13,150 manholes
        Estimated beneficiaries: 242,000 (123,000 actual plus 119,000 after completion)

SWDs
   Number of subprojects: 13
   Physical output: 32 km of SWDs

RWH
   Number of subprojects: 9
   Physical output: 83 public buildings with RWH installations

                                            28
Water Supply
   Number of subprojects: 31 (17 completed and 14 under implementation)
   Physical output: 450 km of pipes and 4 water treatment plants.
   Estimated beneficiaries: 841,965 (534,000 actual plus 307,965 after completion)

LCS
        Number of subprojects: 12
        Physical output: 3,125 toilets/connections
        Estimated beneficiaries: 14,063

C.       Bangalore Development Component

Urban Road Rehabilitation: Rehabilitation of 126.10 km of priority road network, including
pavement, footpath, drainage, street lighting, and signage.

Greater Bangalore UGD

    Procurement of 25 packages (15 international competitive bidding and 10 national
     competitive bidding) of works
    By project closure, 90 percent of the total works were completed with the following results:
     o Laid 2,183 km of trunk, branch, and lateral sewerages (285 km of trunk pipes and 1,898
         km of branch and lateral pipes).
     o Completed 70,870 manholes.
     o Restored 1,573,468 m2 of damaged roads.
     o Completed 152,416 sewerage connections, of which 132,761 are fully operational. The
         remaining connections are already completed but will only be connected to the network
         once the trunk sewerages are completed.
     o Treated 58 MLD of sewerage. Once all STPs are completed in 2016 the volume of
         treated sewerage will increase to 199 MLD.

Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation Program: The Greater Bangalore Pro-poor
Sanitation subcomponent produced the following outcomes:
 Targeted 31,038 households in 101 slums through either toilet construction or sewerage
   connections.
 Improved overall environment in program slums following provision of toilets and house
   service connections to UGD lines, with provision for safe disposal of wastewater.
   o Constructed 1,696 toilets out of 2,202 work orders issued
   o Completed 29,745 household connections of toilets to UGD, out of which 12,457
        connections are still to be regularized
   o Achieved ODF status in 32 slums (100 percent toilets + 100 percent UGD + disposal
        completed)
 Numerous awareness campaigns to improve hygiene practices and sanitation and
   wastewater disposal were conducted as follows:
   o Covered 15,778 households under house-to-house awareness campaign
   o Covered 52 slums under the awareness campaign
        o Covered 42 slums with interpersonal communications campaigns
        o Covered 20 slums with street plays
        o Covered 10 slums with hygiene programs for school children
        o Conducted case studies in 12 slums
        o Distributed books and brochures in 20 slums




                                               29
                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis

1.       During the ICR, economic assessments were carried out to evaluate the efficiency of
KMRP investments. Investments for which benefits could be quantified were assessed using
cost benefit analysis (CBA), while cost effective analysis (CEA) was undertaken in other cases.
Each of the three sub-projects under the Bangalore Development component was assessed
individually. Sub-projects under the Municipal Investment Support component were analyzed
in a sample of three ULBs one each representing two of the largest investments in water and
sanitation (sewerage), and one with a mix of investments representative of the larger group of
investments undertaken under the component. Table 3.1 shows the costs of projects and sub-
projects assessed; approximately 63 percent of KMRP investments were covered by the
economic analysis.

              Table 3.1. Costs and Appraisal Methodologies of KMRP Components
       Component and             Project                Economic Analysis Methodology
        Subprojects               Cost
                                  (INR                  Appraisal                        ICR
                                 million)
 Bangalore Development            7,910
 Component
 a. Bangalore Road                1,560     CBA using HDM-IV                    Cost-effectiveness 1
 Rehabilitation
 b. Greater Bangalore UGD         6,050     Cost-effectiveness                  Cost-effectiveness
 c. Pro-poor Sanitation            300      Identification of potential         CBA
                                            benefits
 Municipal Investment              658
 Support Component
 a. UGD System:                    244      Cost-effectiveness, qualitative     Cost-effectiveness
      Chikkaballapur                       analysis (suggested)/3              against per unit cost
          (UGD and STP)                                                         benchmarks of
      Chintamani                                                               similar systems
          (missing links)
 b. Water Supply:                  292      CBA (suggested) but                 CBA
      Nanjangud (24x7)                     information available only for
      Chintamani                           Nanjangud/2
          (augmentation)
 a. RWH                             2.5     Cost-effectiveness (suggested)/3    Cost-effectiveness
      Chintamani                                                               against per unit cost
                                                                                benchmarks of a
                                                                                similar projects
 b.   Urban Roads, Slum            119      Slum upgrading: Benefits            Assessment of
      Upgrading, and SWDs                   quantified on the basis of          benefit-cost ratio
       Chintamani                          increase in property values;
                                            cost-effectiveness for small
                                            urban projects (suggested) /3
  Total                             8,568
  % of KMRP costs assessed            63
  under economic analysis
Sources: Project costs from the KUIDFC; KMRP status as of March 2015.
Note: HDM-IV - Highway Design and Maintenance-IV.
1/ It was not possible to use the appraisal stage methodology, due to the absence of updated traffic
surveys of roads under KMRP and other comparable roads within Bangalore; and lack of information
on non-project interventions undertaken by the city in the time elapsed since project completion (e.g.
traffic management, signalization).
2/ The appraisal document shared by the implementing agency did not provide details of assumptions.
The EIRR was re-estimated at the ICRR stage using available information.
3/ Information unavailable on whether suggested methodologies were adopted during project life.

                                                  30
 2.       Key assumptions used are presented in Table 3.2.

                                       Table 3.2. Key Assumptions
             Assumption              Value                                Source
  Number of persons per              4.6     2011 census results for Karnataka
  household
  Value of time lost for adults      30%     Water and Sanitation Project (WSP), Economic Impacts of
  as % of daily wage                         Inadequate Sanitation in India, 2011
  Value of time lost for children    50%     WSP, Economic Impacts of Inadequate Sanitation in India, 2011
  as % of adults’ value of time
  Attribution rate for increase in
  property values:                           Based on attribution factor assumptions from the ICRR of the
      UGD                           20%     Third Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project, 2014
      Roads                         10%
  Average plot area per household
  in sq. ft.
      Slums                         191     Based on information available from
                                             http://ksdb.kar.nic.in/slums.asp
     Non-slum urban areas           504     63rd round survey of the National Sample Survey Organization

 3.      Bangalore Road Rehabilitation. At appraisal, economic analysis was conducted for
 the Bangalore Roads Rehabilitation sub-component using a customized version of the Bank’s
 Highway Design and Maintenance (HDM-IV) model, taking into account expected reduction
 in vehicle operating costs, travel time savings, and a reduction in the number of accidents. The
 overall ERR for the roads component was estimated to be 33.1 percent. A sensitivity analysis
 conducted confirmed the economic robustness of the component.

 4.      Implementation of the component concluded in 2009, i.e., six years before the ICRR.
 At the ICRR stage, data on ex post traffic/beneficiary or accident surveys conducted on
 completion of the sub-projects could not be obtained. In view of this, per kilometer costs of
 roads rehabilitated under KMRP were compared with unit costs under the Bank-funded Second
 Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project. As shown in Table 3.3., unit costs under
 KMRP are comparable to costs under the state highways project, despite KMRP roads in
 Bangalore being urban roads, which are typically designed to higher standards.

                         Table 3.3. Unit Cost Comparison (INR million per km)
                                                                    Estimated Cost (INR,       Unit Cost (INR,
                                                  Length (km)             million)             million per km)
KMRP nominal costs (2005–2009)                      126.10                 1,934                     15.3
KMRP in 2014 prices                                 126.10                 2,681                     21.2
Second Karnataka State Highways
Improvement Project (2014 prices)
Haskote-Chintamani package                            52.5                   983.6                   18.7
Haveri-Hangal package                                 31.8                   902.5                   28.3
Hangal-Tadas package                                  43.5                   948.5                   21.8
Dharwad-Saundatti package                              36                    763.9                   21.2
Thinthini-Kalamala package                            73.8                   1,575                   21.3
Chowdapur-Gulbarga package                            28.6                   584.6                   20.4

 5.       Greater Bangalore UGD project. The project implemented the cost-effective
 technical and design solutions identified at appraisal: (a) selection of STP locations to ensure
 least cost by using gravity conveyance of sewage; (b) use of storm water and PVC pipes; and
 (c) selection of a 30-year design period.

 6.       The eight ULBs covered by KMRP were added to Bangalore city limits in 2007 to
 create the BBMP. These ULBs had a population characteristic of Class IC towns (between 0.5
 and 1 million persons) as reclassified by the 2011 High Powered Expert Committee (HPEC).
 Despite cost escalations due to site challenges, delays in right-of-way clearances, and labor
 issues encountered during implementation, the cost of providing sewerage network connections

                                                      31
under the Greater Bangalore UGD component (designed to accommodate population growth
over the next 30 years) at a little over INR12,200 per household are comparable to the HPEC
estimates for Class IC towns at INR11,700 per household. Per kilometer costs of the KMRP
were also found to be lower than the unit cost estimates of sewerage contracts awarded in 2015
under the Bank-supported National Ganga River Basin Project in Allahabad.

7.       Some of the benefits of the UGD system include:

        Increase in property values. Based on field interviews, it was found that property
         values have increased on average by INR800 per sq. ft. or approximately 35% since
         implementation of the project. This is in line with the expected increase of 7 to 60
         percent estimated in the PAD. The increase in the value of properties (per household)
         that is attributable to the UGD network is estimated at INR80,640, i.e., a property value
         increase of INR1.40 for an investment of INR1. This is a conservative measure as the
         network is designed to accommodate populations up to 2040, and only 20% of potential
         beneficiaries have been connected.
        Savings in monthly sanitation expenditures. BWSSB’s average monthly domestic
         UGD network user charge of INR 57 per month is about INR13 per household lower
         than the average cost to a household for the collection, treatment, and disposal without
         a UGD connection. Therefore beneficiaries enjoy better services at lower costs.
        Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation project. Benefits of UGD in slum areas
         were identified based on case studies and focus group discussions with beneficiaries in
         the eight ULBs:1

        Increase in property values. Property values in slum areas connected to UGD increased
         from INR250 to 500 per sq. ft.
        Savings in monthly sanitation expenditures for households newly connected to UGD.
         Assuming that households pay the minimum INR14 monthly UGD user charge, they
         would save about INR54 per month compared to the monthly cost 2 for sanitary
         collection, treatment, and disposal without UGD.
        Time savings. Convenience, safety, dignity, and self-respect of most residents,
         especially women, adolescent girls, and girl children living in program slums have been
         significantly enhanced. At the reported average saving of 1.5 hours per day, the
         estimated average value of time saved ranges from INR2,318 to INR4,635 per year per
         person.

CBA undertaken using estimated time savings (for households with new toilets),
monthly savings in sanitary expenditures (for households newly connected to the UGD),
and increase in property values attributed to improvements in sanitary conditions,
indicates an ERR of 78 percent, which is substantially higher than the 12 percent social
discount rate even without taking into account the health benefits of improved
sanitation.

8.       Municipal investments in water supply. CBA was conducted for the 24x7 water
supply project in Nanjangud and the water supply augmentation project in Chintamani. The
results are summarized in Table 3.4 below.




1
  Basic data from Belliappa, Saswati Ghosh and Chature, Praveen, “Greater Bangalore Underground
Drainage: Pro Poor Sanitation Sub-component,” August 2014
2
  Source: Non-network system: A cost-effective approach for improved service delivery? (undated)
                                                32
                       Table 3.4. Nanjangud and Chintamani Water Projects

                                         Nanjangud                                      Chintamani
  Project        24x7 Water Supply                                               Water Supply Augmentation
  Duration        2014–up to present (completion expected by end 2015)              2011–2013
                  Appraisal: Savings from use of piped water, health                Appraisal: n.a.
  Benefits        benefits including decrease in expenditure through                ICR: Time savings
  considered reduction in the incidence of disease.
                  ICR: Time savings, additional water consumption.
  ERR             Appraisal: 13.4%                                                  Appraisal: n.a.
                  ICR: 20%                                                          ICR: 34%
                  Appraisal: INR 6.87 million                                       Appraisal: n.a.
  NPV
                  ICR: INR 125 million                                              ICR: INR 19.89 million
  Note: In this table, ‘Appraisal’ refers to the appraisal of the sub -project, not Appraisal of KMRP.

9.      Municipal investments in the UGD. The unit costs of (a) the new UGD network and
STP in Chikkaballapur and (b) augmentation of the existing network in Chintamani were
compared with the estimates of Class IV+ towns and were found to be significantly lower, in
terms of both per household costs for providing sewerage connections (by the 2011 HPEC
Report) and per million liters per day investment costs for sewerage treatment costs (estimated
in the Economics of Sanitation Initiative). Admittedly, these comparisons are not precise, but
they do provide an indication of the project’s cost effectiveness.

10.       Rainwater harvesting (RWH). Rooftops of three public buildings in Chintamani were
fitted with an RWH system, which was estimated to harvest a total of 3 million liters per year
for each building per year (about 750 kiloliters per month per building), which translates to an
additional 245 persons served per day based at 100 lpcd. The unit cost per liter of rainwater
harvested in Chintamani, at INR0.13 per liter, compares favorably with the unit cost of INR0.18
per liter in a similar project in Maharashtra.

11.      Slum upgrading, storm water drainage, and road-related projects. These small
projects rehabilitated roads in two slums that lead to the main and arterial roads and provided
for the rehabilitation of culverts and roadside drains, including covering of side drains with
concrete slabs. Chintamani also undertook the rehabilitation of four open unpaved primary
storm water drains (SWDs) and the shifting of electrical poles along the side of the road. A
total of 14.28 km of roads, including 1.03 km of SWDs, were constructed. These projects
improved access, mobility, and roadside management in the city. Households along the slum
roads have improved their respective houses or properties. The average real property value
increase in slum areas reported in the UGD pro-poor component is estimated to be around
INR16.8 million per km. The investments yield a benefit of INR1.9 for every rupee invested.

Financial Analysis

12.    The results of the analysis of the financial performance of BBMP, BWSSB, and the
three ULBs visited at the ICR stage are summarized in the following paragraphs.

13.    BBMP. As shown in Table 3.5, BBMP’s revenues and surpluses between 2009 and
2012 exceeded appraisal stage projections. BBMP is assessed to be capable of sustaining
investments as well as expanding investments in new projects.




                                                   33
         Table 3.5. BBMP Revenue Receipts and Expenditures (INR millions)
                                       2009–10 Projected               2009–10         2010–11              2011–12
                                          at Appraisal                 (Actual)        (Actual)            (Actual) /1
             Tax revenues                                               11,120          17,160               15,240
             Revenue grants                                             5,180           5,950                5,080
             Total revenue receipts             7,652                  16,300           23,110              20,320
             Revenue expenditures               5,229                   9,830           12,430              14,020
             Revenue surplus                    2,423          6,470            10,680           6,300
             Source: KMRP PAD and the BBMP as cited in the Infrastructure Needs Assessment for Bengaluru
             City 2015–2020, Memorandum to the 14th Finance Commission.
             Note: /1 = Latest available provided.

         14.     BWSSB. A review of BWSSB finances between 2005–06 and 2013–14 (see Table 3.6
         below) indicates that BWSSB had adequate resources to cover operating expenses. However,
         from 2009-10 water expenditures exceeded water revenues, with the difference being by
         revenue from other sources.

         15.      BWSSB had a growing overall financial deficit over the period assessed, which was
         covered by GOK, which provided relief by deferring interest and principal collection. KMRP
         water supply and sewerage investments in the Bengaluru Metropolitan area will expand
         BWSSB’s consumer base and support growth in revenues. However, BWSSB will need to
         improve efficiency by decreasing its nonrevenue water (around 42 percent in 2012),
         implementing energy efficiency programs, and implementing cost recovery tariffs. Financial
         forecasts for BWSSB, undertaken as part of KUIDFC’s Memorandum to the 14th Finance
         Commission, show that BWSSB will need government support during 2015–2020, especially
         for its capital investment program.

                               Table 3.6. BWSSB Income and Expenditure (INR crores)

                            2005–06   2006–07    2007–08      2008–09     2009–10    2010–11     2011–12     2012–13     2013–14
                                                            Income
Water Revenue                 3,800    4,149       4,327       4,529        4,761     4,840       4,893       5,123       5,920
Other than Water Revenue      573       723        542          818          806       561        1,221        713        1,181
Total Income                  4,373    4,872       4,869       5,347        5,567     5,401       6,114       5,836       7,101
                                                          Expenditure
Establishment Expenses        527       530        603          743          777      1,142       1,236       1,296       1,528
Power Charges                 2,218    2,279       2,281       2,441        2,948     3,069       3,247       3,247       3,565
Repairs and Maintenance       255       288        396          601          761       676         697         775         957
General Administration        181       294        315          390          346       291         405         511         868
Total Operating               3,181    3,391       3,595       4,175        4,832     5,178       5,585       5,829       6,918
Expenses
Operating Surpluses           1,192    1,481       1,274       1,173         735       223         529          7          182
Operating Expenditure          73       70          74          78              87     96          91          100         97
as % of Total Income
Operating Expenditure          84       82          83          92           101       107         114         114         117
as % of Water Revenues
Depreciation                  231       627        641          619          699       769        1,081        882        1,631
Interest Payments             1,069    1,045       1,040       1,123        1,170     1,202       1,094       1,081       3,006
Provisions                     15       14          13          11              49     25           8           8           8
Total Expenditure             4,510    5,093       5,292       5,940        6,597     7,052       7,589       7,799      11,562
Surplus/Deficit               ˗137     ˗221        ˗423         ˗593        ˗1,030    ˗1,652      ˗1,475      ˗1,964      ˗4,461
         Source: BWSSB



                                                              34
16.     ULBs. Chikkaballapur, Nanjangud and Chintamani rely heavily on grant revenues to
cover total yearly expenditures. While tax revenues have gradually increased in all the ULBs,
they contribute less than 15 percent of the total receipts. The bulk of the expenditure in all three
ULBs is for human resource management and O&M.

17.     Chikkaballapur was able to cover O&M expenditures from own source revenues
(except for year 2011–12). The KMRP-supported UGD sub-project required a contribution of
about INR27 million from the ULB, which Chikkaballapur was able to handle.

18.      Chintamani was able to meet expenses only with the support of grant receipts in three
of the past five years. Chintamani contributed around INR14.49 million between 2010 and 2014
for KMRP sub-projects, resulting in deficits in 2012–13 and 2013–14. However, it regained a
net surplus position (INR51 million surplus) in 2014–15. The KMRP water sub-project carries
an estimated yearly amortization of INR0.37 million starting in 2016 3 , which can be
accommodated as long as Chintamani maintains its surplus.

19.       Nanjangud has relied significantly on grants to meet O&M expenses in three of the
past five years; however, tax revenues and user fees and charges have increased in recent years.
A minimum monthly domestic tariff of INR125 for 0–25 liters and INR6 for every additional
liter is expected to cover the estimated O&M cost of about INR109 per connection. Nanjangud
expects increases in power charges (which will likely comprise a large chunk of O&M costs)
to be covered through the regular State Finance Commission grants. It also plans to pursue
improvements in NRW, 4 collection (currently at 75 percent), and operational efficiency.
Nanjangud will need to rely on government grants to service the estimated annual loan
amortization of INR7 million per year plus interest5 for its capital investments in the KMRP
water supply sub-project.




3
  Interest of 8.5 percent, 5-year grace period and 15-year amortization. Source: KUIDFC.
4
  No estimate on NRW is available but this could be around 40 percent or higher. Based on water
treatment plant operations (10.9 MLD capacity with current intake of about 6.5 MLD), output is about
5 to 5.4 MLD, while overall consumption by the end consumer is 4 MLD. Total loss in the system is at
35 to 40 percent.
5
  Principal of INR 106.36 million (40 percent of project cost), 8.5 percent interest, 5-year grace period,
and 20-year amortization.
                                                   35
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
           Names                              Title                  Unit
 Uri Raich                    Task Team Leader ICR Stage           GSURR
 Sita Ramakrishna Addepalli   Senior Environmental Specialist      GENDR
 Harinath S. Appalarajugari   Senior Environmental Specialist      GENDR
 Arnab Bandyopadhyay          Lead TransportSpecialist Engr.        GTIDR
 Venkata Rao Bayana           Consultant                           GSURR
 Ashish Bhateja               Senior Procurement Specialist        OPSOR
 Francois Boulanger           Sr. Urban Economist                  MNSSU
 Parthapriya Ghosh            Senior Social Development Specialist GSURR
 Savinay Grover               Financial Management Specialist      GGODR
 Yash Gupta                   Senior Procurement Specialist        GGODR
 Mohammed Hasan               Consultant                           GSURR
                              Lead Financial Management
Manoj Jain                                                         GGODR
                              Specialist
Raghu Kesavan                 Senior Infrastructure Specialist     GSURR
Raghava Neti                  Senior Infrastructure Specialist     GWADR
Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy     Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.          GWADR
Robin Michael Rajack          Sr Land Administration Specialist    GSURR
Sanjay Srivastava             Lead Environmental Specialist        GENDR
Michelle Lisa Chen            Program Assistant                    GSURR
Sunita Singh                  Program Assistant                     SACIN

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         US$, thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                      79.92
  FY04                                                                     275.96
  FY05                                                                     220.51
  FY06                                                                      96.91
  FY07                                                                       0.27
  FY08                                                                       0.00
                            Total:                                         673.03
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                       0.00
  FY04                                                                       0.01
  FY05                                                                       0.00
  FY06                                                                      63.10
  FY07                                                                     127.75
  FY08                                                                     152.79
                            Total:                                         343.65




                                              36
                          Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The project did not conduct a final beneficiary assessment. However, project impacts were
captured through the following three assessments.

1. Pro-poor Sanitation
Methodology: As part of project implementation, a study was commissioned to look into the
pro-poor sanitation component (Ghosh and Chature 2014). Case studies of individual
beneficiaries and FGDs in selected slums were used to understand impacts. The four slums
selected for case studies included a pilot slum, an ODF slum, a slum where the payment mode
was changed from two-stage to one-stage, and a slum that went through many hurdles during
implementation.

Case studies and FGDs were conducted using the following criteria: before and after project
status, hurdles faced in implementation, perception of project, process adopted, and suggestions
for similar projects in future. Intensive discussions with two of the community organizers and
two site engineers (concerned with project implementation in the slums selected for the case
study) of the BWSSB were held. FGDs were conducted with a total of 67 adults (42 female and
25 male) and 15 adolescents (11 girls and 4 boys). The study included 10 case studies with
individuals/beneficiaries.

Results: According to this assessment the Greater Bangalore Pro-poor Sanitation
subcomponent and the larger UGD component of the KMRP had the following positive impacts
and outcomes:

   Increased access to toilets by the poorest households through provision of subsidy / removal
    of affordability constraints;
   Improved overall environment in program slums, following provision of toilets and house
    service connections to UGD lines with provision for safe disposal of wastewater;
   Improved quality of life of the poor in program slums, in terms of safety, convenience, and
    dignity; visual improvement in living conditions in the localities; and reduced smells, flies,
    and mosquito menace;
   Pro-poor unit (Social and Environmental Cell) in the BWSSB established and functional,
    with well-defined processes for sanitation service delivery to poor;
   Policies of the BWSSB related to inclusion of the poor in water and sanitation service
    delivery defined;
   Enhancement of capacities, skills, and experience of the Social and Economic Cell staff
    and other BWSSB staff related to service delivery, progress monitoring, and reporting on
    sanitation services to the poor;
   Rise in property prices in poor settlements as a result of improved living conditions;
   Likely positive health impacts resulting from improved hygiene practices and awareness;
   Sanitation and hygiene behavior change among beneficiaries;
   Achievement of financial inclusion in the formal banking system by some poor households;
   Positive impacts on benefited women, adolescent girls, and girl children living in program
    slums in the form of increased comfort, convenience, privacy, safety, dignity, and self-
    respect;
   Benefits from time savings in access to latrines as opposed to open defecation (on average,
    1.5 hours per day per person), resulting in freeing up of productive time; and
   Positive impacts on the disabled and elderly in terms of comfort, convenience, and ease of
    access to toilets as well as independence from need for support to access toilets.

2. Third-party Evaluation of Training Activities
Methodology: A third-party validation was commissioned to assess the impact of the training
on job performance. The third-party evaluation was performed by nine independently hired
external evaluators on the following 12 (out of 17) training programs: Gender and Equity
Concern to City Managers, Management Development Program for Engineers in Urban Local
                                               37
Bodies, Conduct of Statutory Meeting, Public Private Management, Resource Mobilization,
Urban Poverty Alleviation, Urban Zoning Regulations and Building Bye Laws, Quality
Management and Preparation of Citizen Charter, People Management and Office Management,
House Keeping and Communication Skills, Urban Disaster Management, and Water and
Energy Audit and Water Conservation Practices. Each of the third-party evaluators was briefed
on the method and objectives with which the training evaluations were to be conducted. The
following were the specified objectives of the evaluation:

   To evaluate the process involved in organizing training programs and find out the
    effectiveness of this process;
   To evaluate the quality of the infrastructure and the quality of the faculty/trainers;
   To evaluate the contents and delivery of the curriculum and its effectiveness on the training;
   To assess the impact of the training programs on the participant’s knowledge, skill, attitude,
    and performance levels;
   To assess the impact of the training programs on improvements in achieving the outcomes;
    and
   To suggest modifications required for making future training programs more useful.

The evaluation was done by conducting concurrent evaluations of two courses and by assessing
their impact. For conducting the concurrent evaluation of the programs, courses were observed,
noting down the following details: the implementation of the training schedule by the resource
persons, the methods used, the contents delivered, the response of the trainees, and the physical
arrangements of the classrooms. Under each topic, two of the courses were concurrently
evaluated, a course conducted at Mysore (on the campus) and a course in another town/city (off
campus). After the completion of the first concurrent evaluation and the submission of the
report, the training institute ensured that the feedback was given to the course coordinators who
were requested to write a compliance report. In cases where the compliance report was given
by the course coordinators, the evaluators’ job of observing the second program included
observing whether the suggestions assured to be complied with were followed.

After allowing for a gap of six months from the completion of the training program, the impact
of the program was assessed. For this, 20 trainees of each program were randomly selected
from the list of trainees who attended the respective course, ensuring geographical spread and
gender inclusiveness. The 20 trainees were interviewed either (a) by surface mail, (b) by email,
(c) by telephone, and/or (d) face-to-face. The evaluation work also included collection of
secondary data from the training institute and interaction with the primary stakeholders.

Results: Although it varied from course to course, the third-party evaluation found that, in
general, (a) the training programs were well-designed, coordinated, and managed; (b) a
majority of trainees found the courses useful and their performance improved as a result of the
training activities; (c) in terms of knowledge, skills, and attitude, the programs had a positive
effect on the trainees; and (d) a high proportion of training objectives were fully or partially
covered during the courses.

Despite the positive assessment of the training program, the following issues were considered
to be critical in the evaluation: (a) availability of good resource persons; (b) more focus on
practical exercises than on theoretical lessons; (c) reliance on hands on exercises with examples
and field visits; (d) group work should be stimulated and given more time to develop the
exercises; (e) be more inclusive in the trainings of the private sector, local representatives, and
other relevant stakeholders. Other shortcomings of the training programs were due to the lack
of adequate personnel to be trained at the local level and the fact that some areas for training
could have been more closely linked to the type of investments/activities financed by specific
projects/programs.




                                                38
3. ULB Assessments of Institutional Reforms and Municipal Investments
Methodology: Since the ULBs were the beneficiaries of the reforms and municipal investments
supported by the KMRP, the KUIDFC compiled a questionnaire to capture some of the impacts
of the reforms and the municipal investments on the participating ULBs. The questionnaire was
administered to all the ULBs (29) that were engaged with both urban infrastructure and reforms
initiatives to get their views on the impact of the KMRP. Fifty percent of the ULBs (15)
completed the questionnaire that assessed 10 different areas supported according to their level
of usefulness—from ‘not useful’ to ‘very useful’.

Results:
                                                                         Moderately       Not
                                          Very Useful       Useful
                                                                          Useful         Useful
 Accounting Reforms                           7%            80%            13%             –
 Property Tax Information System              7%            80%            13%             –
 Birth and Death Registration                 7%            80%            13%             –
 Public Grievance Redressal                  27%            73%              –             –
 Capacity Building                            7%            86%             7%             –
 Municipal Investments                        7%            86%             7%             –
 Procurement Guidelines                      20%            80%              –             –
 Project Implementation Arrangement           7%            93%              –             –
                                           Excellent      Very good        Good          Poor
 Overall Rating                               7%            20%            73%             –




                                              39
                   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

(Not applicable)




                                         40
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                         Client’s Perspective
                                 on
                            World Bank
                               Funded
             Karnataka Municipal Reforms Project (KMRP)


                            Prepared by
KARNATAKA URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
                              CORPORATION



                           August 2015




                                 41
1.       Justification for the Project.

1.1     Karnataka is the fifth-most urbanized State in the country, with 23.6 million urban residents
spread across 213 municipalities or Urban Local Bodies (ULBs).

1.2     With an ever-growing urban population in the State, urbanization contributes significantly
not only to the growth of the GDP, but also increases pressure on land, infrastructure and urban
services. Further, the government organizations are plagued by mismatch between responsibilities
and financial resources, weak capacity, insufficient accountability and excessive controls, which
have impede service delivery, thereby leading to deteriorated quality of life in the cities. These
factors have also discouraged investments and stifled economic growth, both at the State and
National levels.

1.3      With the intention of addressing these issues, the Government of Karnataka (GoK)
introduced extensive Municipal Reforms in 2004. Further, the Karnataka Municipal Reforms
Project (KMRP) was taken up with the assistance of World Bank to ensure that the reforms initiated
are scaled up and replicated in all the ULBs of the State. Although the major focus of the KMRP
was on reforms like institutional development and capacity building of ULBs, essential urban
infrastructure works under the Project were meant as incentives for the ULBs to take up these
reforms.

1.4    The major focus of KMRP was to achieve effective governance by improving the financial
and administrative capacity of ULBs and also through decentralization.

2.       Objective:

2.1    The key objective of the Project, namely, improving delivery of urban services, was
achieved by:

        Strengthening the institutional and financial frameworks in urban service delivery at both
         the ULB and State levels.
        Improving the quality of urban infrastructure by mobilizing the financial resources of the
         participating ULBs.
        Improving the roads system in Bangalore.
        Improving the sanitary conditions in the eight erstwhile ULBs around Bangalore.

3.       Original Components

3.1      Component A – Institutional Development,                          Investment Proposed
supported institutional capacity building activities aimed
towards better transparency and accountability at the ULB         11%      8%
and State levels in key areas, including, computerization                             Institutional Development
of basic municipal functions, urban land management and                               Municipal Investment
                                                                                      Bangalore Development
planning, financial management reforms, and training of                    33%        Project Management
ULB and State level staff. In addition to the same,               48%
technical assistance was provided to the Urban
Development Department (UDD) and its line agencies
also.



                                                 55
3.2     Component B — Municipal Investment Support, provided performance-based loans and
grants to ULBs outside Bangalore, for investments in urban infrastructure services like water
supply, roads, streets, slum upgradation, solid waste disposal, sewerage, and storm water drains.

3.3      Component C — Bangalore Development, provided financing support for the
rehabilitation of the Bangalore City Road Network and the underground pipes of the Sewerage
System in the eight erstwhile ULBs around Bangalore City, including the construction of pro-poor
sanitation facilities at the community and individual levels.

3.4    Component D — Project Management, supported project implementation, including
incremental operating costs of the Municipal Reform Cell (MRC) and KUIDFC and a Project
Development Advisory Facility to support the preparation and implementation of sub-projects.

4.           Implementation Arrangements:

4.1     The Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation (KUIDFC)
was appointed as the Nodal Agency and was responsible for the overall project monitoring,
supervision, and consolidation of the progress achieved by all the implementing agencies.

4.2    In addition to the above, KUIDFC played a major role in hand holding the ULBs under
the Municipal Investment Component for implementing the sub-projects.

4.3    The implementing agencies for Component C, i.e. Bangalore Development were: Bruhath
Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for road rehabilitation, and Bangalore Water Supply and
Sewerage Board (BWSSB) for the Greater Bangalore - UGD & pro-poor components.

4.4    The Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA) was primarily responsible for the
implementation of the computerisation and accounting reforms. A dedicated Municipal Reform
Cell (MRC) was created under the control of DMA for implementation of the said reforms.

4.5     The Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) was responsible for the reforms in
the area of urban mapping. A dedicated Urban Mapping Cell (UMC) was created under the
supervision of DTCP for the implementation of the said reforms.

4.6    The State Institute of Urban Development (SIUD), Mysore was in charge of the training
and capacity building activities,

5.           Utilization of Bank Funding:

                Components                    WB Share            Utilized                  %
                                            (US$ in Million)   (US$ in Million)
     Institutional Development                   19.01               16.13                 85%
     Municipal Investment                        75.97               42.53                 56%

     Greater Bangalore Development              111.72               135.92                122%
     Project Management                          8.76                 9.2                  105%

     Front End Fee                               0.54                 0.54                 100%
     Total                                        216                204.32                95%
 Note: The utilized details provided above are as on end of August 2015 and subject to change

                                                    56
                                Year Wise Reimbursement Claims

              300                  TARGET              PLANNED              ACTUAL


              225

US$ Million
              150


                75


                 0
                 06-07     07-08    08-09    09-10     10-11    11-12    12-13    13-14    14-15
                                                       YEAR


 6.      States experience in implementing the project

 6.1     Institutional Development Component:

 6.1.1   Computerization of Basic Municipal Functions and Accounting Reforms:

 6.1.1.1 Background:

          Work on policy reform in Karnataka had begun prior to KMRP, through the ADB -
 financed Nirmala Nagara Project (meaning Clean City Project) in 49 ULBs of the State. Based on
 the success of the Nirmala Nagara Project, the State decided to replicate the reforms in the
 remaining 164 ULBs under the said component of KMRP. This initiative is the first of its kind the
 country, wherein a State-wide model of reforms has been implemented. Traditionally, municipal e-
 governance reforms were driven at the local level, making replication difficult. Karnataka departed
 from this practice through the KMRP and created a standardized set of systems and processes across
 the State.

 6.1.1.2 Challenges faced:

 (a)     ULBs varied in sizes and in spread. Each of the municipalities followed their own
 procedures. Standardizing systems and procedures required large-scale restructuring of functions,
 breaking away from traditional ways of functioning.

 (b)      The man power needed to implement and maintain such large-scale computerization was
 significant. At the grass-root level, where most of the interactions between citizens and officials
 take place, the existing staff lacked the requisite information technology (IT) skills, and hence,
 provision for people with specialised skills such as IT engineers and accountants had to be made.
 Also, since the State Training Institutions lacked the wherewithal, work force with specialized skills
 needed to be sourced from the private sector, which in turn required appropriate enabling policies.




                                                  57
(c)     An extensive IT infrastructure such as data centres and fibre optic cables were needed to
provide high-speed internet connections to all the municipalities in order to enable them to share a
common online platform.

(d)     These reforms necessitated amendments in the prevailing Municipal Act.

6.1.1.3 Steps taken to overcome the said challenges:

(a)      In 2005, a Municipal Reform Cell (MRC)
was created exclusively for the computerization and
implementation of other reforms in the ULBs. The
MRC was managed by professionals who were hired
directly from the market and were made responsible
for software development, implementation,
verification and maintenance.

(b)      A centralized IT platform was set up to
facilitate   state-wide     deployment,      reduce
development costs and ensure that the municipalities need not maintain any server locally. The
MRC worked with the e-Governments Foundation (a trust created by Infosys's former Chairman
Sri. Nandan Nilekani and Sri. Srikanth Nadhamuni) to develop this common IT platform, with a
standardized set of systems and procedures for all ULBs. Further, all ULBs were equipped with
the necessary hardware and internet connection.

(c)      Appropriately skilled human resources were positioned at various levels in the system.
Cadres and staffing guidelines were revised, 57 redundant cadres were abolished, and 92 cadres
were reduced to 40, creating space for new skills and positions such as environment/civil Engineers,
accountants, surveyors, data entry operators, and IT engineers. Policies that allowed the private
sector to fill the skills gap were enacted so that contract staff could be brought in where skills were
needed for short periods of time, both locally and at the State level.

(d)     Public and private sector expertise was combined. The government of Karnataka (GoK)
forged a partnership with the e-Governments Foundation, whose software development experts
worked under a PPP agreement with the staff of the MRC (which included a former Municipal
Commissioner), who in turn were well versed with the needs of the municipalities. This interaction
made it possible to address and overcome the challenges that emerged over time, in a way that
would not have been possible if the State had simply outsourced the system design. Expertise and
capacity was specifically built in-house in order to sustain and upgrade reform efforts. Further, to
improve the quality of property records and increase tax compliance, the revenue sections of all
ULBs were computerized. Field surveys were conducted to collect information on all properties
and digitized maps were created in collaboration with the Survey of India.




                                                  58
6.1.1.4 Outcomes:

(a)      As a result of Property Tax Information
module, 1.2 million previously un-assessed
properties (42% of the total) have been brought
into the tax net, increasing revenues by 30-40%
percent. Citizens' complaints of calculation
errors have also declined dramatically owing to
the online calculation system provided in the
said module. Cadastral Mapping of the State
was carried out, covering an area of about 2 lakh
Sq.Km., including a population of 25 lakh
people - amongst the largest in the country.

(b)      Computerized      birth    and     death
registration is an ongoing process through municipal offices and at hospitals in all the 213 ULBs.
National and State Registrar Offices can also extract real time population data. Since it went live,
more than 2.2 million births and deaths have been registered and over 2.6 million computerized
certificates have been issued so far, besides increasing revenues from fees.

(c)     Public Grievance and Redressal cells have been set up in every municipality and are
managed by NGOs on open 24/7 in all cities. Complaints are being submitted online in addition to
those made by means of phone calls and paper forms, and are logged into a system that tracks them
by type and location of the problem. They can be prioritized and assigned to the appropriate officer.
A system to use SMSs to report back to complainants, alert officers, escalate where needed, and
provide information on response times to higher-level officials is being tested. This system has not
only helped in redressing citizens' complaints in a time-bound manner, but has also enabled
municipalities to understand the nature of the problems that occur in specific cities and specific
times of year, so that they can better plan the use of funds and the timing of works.

(d)       Implementation of Fund Based Double Entry Accrual Accounting System including
Computerization of Accounts has been initiated in all the ULBs of Karnataka. Municipal accounts
are now maintained in the following three funds: a) General Fund, b) Water Supply and Sewerage
Fund, and c) Enterprise Fund. Income and Expenditure Accounts and balance sheets are prepared
for all the three funds. Accrual accounting has brought to light the actual financial potential of the
ULBs, with the use of a Chart of Accounts, the accounting processes have been standardized and
uniformity has been brought in. Public participation in the preparation of the budget has made the
ULBs blend much more with the community. With fixed assets being taken account of, assets worth
crores of rupees have been brought on record. Now, financial information related to all the
municipalities are published so that anybody can access them easily. Thus, comparisons between
municipalities can be made; city officials can take well-informed decisions, and the public is also
better informed.




                                                    59
(e)      Under the Right to Information Act,
municipalities are expected to make available
to the public information about services,
tenders, accounts, elected and appointed
officials. Accordingly, website templates were
developed and IT technicians appointed to fill
out and maintain the information. Now, each
ULB has a comprehensive website where the
citizens can not only find information, but also
submit applications and grievances online.

(f)      As desired by the State, the Service
Level Benchmarking (SLB) application has
been developed in-house for all the ULBs. The
SLB application helps in monitoring the inputs and outputs associated with each service, evaluating
their performance level and taking corrective actions to improve their performance and thus the
service. It also helps the ULBs in identifying and improving their resources. The sectors covered
are water supply, sewerage and sanitation, solid waste management, roads, road side drains, storm
water drains, street lighting, and development of parks, gardens etc.

(g)      The MRC is currently developing second generation reforms modules like trade license,
building plan approval, asset management and the jalanidhi module. The asset management module
aims to improve the asset visibility, tracking and controlling a government body's asset base. The
jalanidhi module has been developed to capture the property and water tap connection details of
citizens across the 190 ULBs of Karnataka, excluding ULBs, for which water supply is maintained
by KUWS&DB. Its objective is to capture the relevant details of the applicants and provide a
reliable database for an improved municipal administration.

6.1.1.5 Lessons Learned:

(a)     Reforms, to be effective, require a combination of multi-faceted, innovative initiatives.
State-wide and sector-wide reforms can be effectively implemented only through proper policy,
process, technology and HR initiatives.

(b)      In developing systems, a close interaction between developers and users is crucial to ensure
that the systems are both technically strong and also serve the needs of users.

(c)       Improving e-governance is not just a matter of introducing IT systems, more importantly
it is a reforming processes. Process re-engineering and standardization of operating procedures are
the driving force behind the e-governance initiative.

6.1.2   Land Management and Urban Mapping:

6.1.2.1 Background:

(a)     Planning in India for physical development and governance of urban areas is yet to match
the practice that is being followed in developing countries, apart from those in the developed ones.
This is because urban planning at the macro and micro levels is perceived and practiced as an
isolated and exclusive activity, instead of being holistic in approach and inclusive in function.
Therefore, mapping of urban areas has not received the attention it should have, either from the
stake holders in general, or from the town planning community in particular.


                                                   60
(b)      The Government of Karnataka (GoK) as part of its reforms initiatives, took up the
preparation of scientific base maps for 16 towns, in the year 2001 -02, under the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) funded Karnataka Urban Development and Coastal Environmental Management
Project (KUDCEMP). KUIDFC was identified as the nodal agency for this purpose. The mapping
project was implemented through the Department of Town & Country Planning (DTCP). Initially,
the technology adopted for mapping was photogrammetry. Accordingly, aerial photography for 16
towns and cities was completed during the flying seasons in 2004 (13) and 2005 (3). However, the
ariel photographs could not be converted into vector maps. Under the World Bank funded
Karnataka Municipal Reforms Project (KMRP), which commenced in 2006, it was envisaged to
prepare maps for all the remaining 202 ULBs in the State using the photogrammetry technique.

6.1.2.2 Challenges Faced:

(a)     Earlier systems of preparing maps by the project authorities led to inaccurate maps as the
in-house capacity was inadequate to take up such work.

(b)     It was found that preparation of base maps using the photogrammetry method was time
consuming as it required two rounds of prior clearances from the Ministry of Defence (MoD) and
there was only limited knowhow in the market.

(c)     Adopting the apt technology to prepare these maps in a time bound manner was a real
challenge, as there were many technologies available for preparation of scientific base maps and
no single technology could meet all the requirements.

(d)      Lack of synergy between planning authorities was a big challenge as the maps needed to
be put to proper use without there being any duplication.

(e)      Since preparation of scientific base maps was being done on such a large scale for the first
time, there was no specific terms of reference readily available for the appointment of consultants
to carry out the said work.

(f)      It was found that the senior functionaries and technical personnel of the consultant not only
lacked the domain knowledge for surveying and mapping but were also ignorant about how
contractual obligations had to be fulfilled. This lacuna was due to the consultant’s ignorance of the
scope and specifications of work that was in the Request for Proposal (RFP). The consultants also
failed to deploy competent and experienced Quality Control (QC) and Quality Audit (QA)
personnel for in-house examination of the check plots. Therefore, there were a number of iterations
at each stage of the work, which delayed completion of work on mapping.

(g)     No standard bidding documents were available to procure such kinds of services.

(h)      Neither proper Schedule of Rates nor prior work experience were available to arrive at the
realistic estimated costs and implementation timelines.

(i)     Inadequate market capacity coupled with improper understanding of the scope of work
resulted in poor response initially, besides causing delays.

6.1.2.3 Steps taken to overcome the said challenges:

(a)      A dedicated Cell: An Urban Mapping Cell (UMC), was created within the DTCP for
project preparation, procurement, monitoring and overseeing the implementation of the projects for
mapping of all urban areas in a phased manner. The UMC comprised of a multi-disciplinary team

                                                 61
consisting of Survey Specialist (geodetic survey) & Surveyor, CADD Manager & Operators, GIS
Manager & Operators, Photogrammetry Specialist & Operators and Cartographers. The UMC
interacted with the consultants and other stake holders on a regular basis to ensure that all technical
and operational issues were resolved at the earliest.

(b)     Apt Technology: In order to overcome the delays in mapping by the photogrammetry
method, it was decided to carry out a study on the apt technology to be adopted for mapping of
urban areas by means of a pilot project wherein actual maps were prepared using remote sensing
and photogrammetric methods. The pilot project of preparing maps was entrusted to the Karnataka
State Remote Sensing Applications Centre (KSRSAC). Hassan City was selected for remote
sensing and Karwar City for photogrammetry methods. The maps prepared using these
technologies were analysed and the Report on Apt Technology (ATR) for mapping of urban areas
was prepared. It was concluded in the ATR that no single technology (method for acquiring of
survey data) would meet the requirements of all the agencies (stake holders) in planning,
development and governance of urban areas. Based on the Apt Technology Report the following
decisions were taken:

   To scale down the project from 202 to 49 ULBs owing to time
    constraint under KMRP.

   To prepare 3D maps at basic scale 1:2,000 by photogrammetry
    using available aerial photographs for 16 places that come
    under KUDCEMP.

    Current Status: The same was later dropped from KMRP and                    Arial Photograph
taken up in the ADB funded NKUSIP project owing to paucity of
time. Works have been already awarded and mapping work is
under progress in NKUSIP.

   To prepare 2D maps at basic scale 1:2,000 for 31 places using
    0.61 m resolution Quick Bird Satellite Images (SIs) and to
    augment the 2D map with contours and spot heights using
    Total Station.                                                                Base Maps

    Current Status: The 31 places are grouped into 4 packages;
however, only 3 packages consisting of 27 places have been taken
up under KMRP and the remaining 4 places have been shifted to
the ADB funded NKUSIP. Out of 3 packages, in package 1 (12
ULBs), Total Station survey was conducted for contours and spot
heights in the mapping area and for details along all roads for maps
at basic scale 1:500 useful to ULBs and utility providers Work on
Package 1 has been completed and MoD clearance obtained. For
packages 2 & 3, work is underway and is likely to be completed by
                                                                           Maps using Total Station
December 2015.                                                                Survey- Hassan

   To prepare scientific base maps at basic scale of 1:500 using Total Station survey in Hassan.
    Current Status: The said work has been completed.

(c)     A Technical Advisory Committee under the Chairmanship of the Director of DTCP was
constituted to advise the DTCP on technical matters, consisting of subject experts/specialists from
outside the Department, in the fields of geodetic survey, photogrammetry and remote sensing.


                                                  62
(d)     Procurement Related Issues: Specific efforts were made by the UMC to customise the bid
document in consultation with World Bank, as there was no standard bidding document available.
Similarly, with a view to bring in better participation, the mapping projects were given wide
publicity through seminars and bidders conference.

(e)     Competence and capacity of consultants: In order to overcome the limitation of the
consultant’s capacity, checking the quality of their work was done by the UMC staff in 3 stages:

        Field survey was carried out for control and heights, feature extraction from SIs, and for
editing point, line and polygons from the vector data in the maps. The interim submissions by the
consultants were reviewed in time and returned by the UMC with or without corrections. This was
made possible by the appointment of experts in survey, CAD and cartography in the UMC as
individual consultants.

(f)     Project Management Unit: The All India Institute of Local Self Government (AIILSG),
Pune was appointed as the Project Monitoring Unit to assist the UMC in monitoring the work of
consultants/contractors, in addition to the individual consultants appointed by UMC.

(g)     Mapping Experience from other States: Karnataka had also deployed DTCP officials to
different States to study the best practices carried out in the field of mapping, planning,
development and governance of urban areas. The key learnings from these visits have been
documented and the best practices of other States were replicated.

(h)     Synergy in Mapping: In order to ensure that maps and digital data are used by the Planning
Bodies and the Local Bodies, and to have proper synergy between DTCP, Department of Survey
Settlement and Land Records (DSSLR) and DMA, GoK has constituted a State level Coordination
Committee. Similarly, there is a proposition to integrate the municipal information system (MIS)
database created by MRC in the DMA on property tax information into the maps prepared by UMC-
DTCP.

(i)     Manual on Survey and Mapping: In order to ensure that preparation, efficient usage and
up-dating of maps was taken up on a regular basis, the State has initiated the preparation of a manual
for mapping and other functions. Towards this end a Manual Drafting Committee and a Manual
Review Committee were constituted. The manual contained chapters on definition of maps at
different scales for different purposes by various stake holders, preparation and updating of maps,
usage of maps, etc. The manual also covered the business processes to be adopted in the usage of
maps, thereby bringing in the element of compulsion for the town planners and other officials of
DTCP, Planning bodies, ULBs and utility providers to follow the due process and also to ensure
dynamic updation of these maps.

(j)     Policy on Mapping of Urban Areas: With a view of bringing in synergy and use of a single
map for day to day planning, the DTCP had proposed a draft Policy on Mapping of Urban Areas,
which is under the active consideration of GoK.

6.1.2.4 Outcomes:

(a)      The scientific base maps, once created, would be complete in content, accurate on ground
reality, large scaled, covering comprehensive area and can be used by all the stakeholders for
planning physical development as well as development of infrastructure and governance. Other
details such as the property tax information of DMA, water supply and UGD network, SWD, street
lighting, etc., can all be easily integrated with the base map for reference by all stakeholders.


                                                 63
(b)     The Manual on Survey and Mapping would establish systems and process in place, so that
in the near future preparation of scientific base maps would be easy and proper updation of these
maps can take places once these maps are created.

(c)     Post completion of the said project there would be adequate in-house capacity for preparing
such scientific base maps.

6.1.2.5 Lessons Learned:

(a)      The challenge in preparation of any Master Plan is to fit all the elements of urban
development in the given area and to make them work together. It is also essential to have
scientifically prepared complete and accurate large scale topographical maps (base maps) covering
comprehensive area. Further, based on experience, it can be concluded that there is no single
technology (method for acquiring of survey data) which will meet the requirements of all the
agencies (stake holders) in planning, development and governance of urban areas. After extensive
studies it may be concluded that ariel photography is the most appropriate method for the
preparation of scientific base maps in terms of cost and time.

(b)     Total area for mapping in a package should be limited to 500 sq km with a margin of land
governance of urban area km) should be in one or not more than 5 separate locations within a radius
of 100 km.

(c)    Dedicated multi-disciplinary technical personnel are necessary to plan, procure, execute
and monitor the work on mapping; planning bodies and ULBs should be associated with DTCP in
mapping work.

6.1.3   Training & Capacity Building:

6.1.3.1 Background:
(a)       No significant investments were made by the ULBs in the training and continuing
education of their staff (only about 3.8% ULB functionaries had undergone any type of training
and continuing education). With a view to ensure that the reforms proposed are sustainable, it was
essential that adequate capacity building was to be provided to the ULB functionaries. As such, for
the first time, Capacity Building of ULB functionaries was made a part of the Urban Infrastructure
Project.

6.1.3.2 Challenges Faced:

(a)     No proper need assessment was conducted to decide the type of training to be provided to
the urban functionaries; further, there was no proper curriculum present for formulating the training
programs.

(b)     Inadequate exposure of municipal functionaries to best practices and international
experiences.

(c)     Absence of training to grass root staff.

(d)     No proper mechanisms were put in place for deputing the ULB functionaries for training.

(e)     Poor attendance during the initial stages of training.

6.1.3.3 Steps taken to overcome the said challenges:

                                                   64
(a)     A field study was conducted by Price Water Coopers and Samaj Vikas Development
Support Organisation (appointed as consultants) to identify the essential training modules.
Questionnaires were prepared and circulated to ULB
functionaries. Based on the feedback received, the
Capacity Enhancement Needs Assessment (CENA)
Report, Urban Sector, was prepared and 21 training
modules were identified.
                                                                           SIUD
(b)    The State Institute of Urban Development
(SIUD), Mysore was then appointed as the nodal agency for carrying out the training.

(c)      To ensure that proper training was imparted, the whole training was conceived and
implemented in two phases. In the first phase, SIUD first identified the expert institution for
conducting trainings, and then identified field level officers and SIUD faculty members who were
deputed to undergo training along with the course coordinators as Master Trainers. These deputed
staff collected all the training materials/modules, curriculum, and schedules which were available
and these were used for preparing course contents and modules, which were customized based on
CENA study, to suit the actual training needs.

(d)     In the second phase, target groups were identified and based on the groups, theme topics
and curriculum were prepared for the training.

(e)    To ensure proper planning and implementation of the training programs, three different
committees were constituted:

       Curriculum Preparation Committee (CPC): The CPC consisted of field level functionaries,
        course coordinators, academicians and subject experts chaired by the Director of SIUD.
        The task of the CPC was to prepare the curriculum and the training modules for each of
        the identified groups.
       Curriculum Approval Committee (CAC): The CAC consisted of subject experts and
        experienced field functionaries at the State level, chaired by DMA. The task of the CAC
        was to validate the content, prepare the implementation schedule, suggest the target group,
        identify the resource persons, prepare the budget, and help in developing the course
        material.
       Review Committee (RC): The Review Committee, periodically reviewed the various
        training programs and ensured that the training objectives were achieved.

(f)     In order to measure the impact of the training conducted, third party evaluation of the
training programs was conducted in 2 parts viz., concurrent evaluation and post training impact
assessment which was done in the field. These reports were reviewed by KUIDFC on a regular
basis and based on the findings, corrective measures were taken up by SIUD.

(g)    To achieve highest dissemination of information a dedicated website for training was
developed and hosted by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), Department of Information
Technology.

(h)    To monitor the progress of the training programmes, a Training Management Information
System (TMIS) was developed in collaboration with the National Informatics Centre (NIC),
Bangalore.



                                                65
(i)     To improve participation/attendance, the District Administration of each district was roped
in and penalties were imposed on absentees.

(j)     Karnataka State provided world class infrastructure at the SIUD for the training sessions.

(k)     MoU was signed with foreign universities and the trainees got international exposure
through visiting these universities seeing firsthand the best practices followed there.

6.1.3.4 Outcomes:

(a)    Documented executive summary, course report, and consolidated report after the
completion of each program.

(b)     100 municipal officials were identified as resource persons/master trainers.

(c)     Ready reckoners were prepared for field level functionaries.

(d)     E-lectures and learning modules have been developed.

(e)      Separate modules for training on urban transport were created and training was imported
to functionaries in the urban transport department.

(f)      The major outcome of this component is that KMRP has put in strong systems and
processes in SIUD for carrying out the capacity building activities for all urban functionaries in the
future. The State has given strong support in terms providing funding support post closure of the
Project.

6.2     Component B

6.2.1   Background

(a)     The Municipal Investment Component provides                 Sector Wise Investment
urban infrastructure support to 32 ULBs grouped into 4                                  2%
packages. Package 1 consist of 9 ULBs with 19 works
contract; Package - 2 consists of 5 ULBs with 29 works
contract; Package - 3 consists of 10 ULBs with 26 works
                                                                               4%
contract and Package - 4 consists of 8 ULBs with 17 works                               23%
contract. This component provided performance-based
loans to the sectors, and also provided grants to ULBs
outside of Bangalore for investments in urban services, such                                 6%
as water supply, urban roads, street lighting, slum
upgrading and other municipal functions such as solid                    65%
waste disposal, sewerage, and storm water drains. Out of
the total 91 works contract 75 works have already been
completed. The balance works are likely to be completed by
December 2015.                                                   Roads   Water Supply    UGD   SWD   Others


(b)     The size of investment in the ULBs was based on
an in-depth analysis of the ULB financials and sustenance to recover the O&M costs required for
the assets created. With a view to encourage the ULBs to adopt policy reforms, incentives were
proposed in the form of rebate in the interest rates chargeable to the ULBs on the loan amount.


                                                 66
6.2.2   Challenges Faced:

6.2.2.1 Funding & structure:

(a)     The funding proposed for each of the ULBs was linked to its investment sustenance
capacity and hence in some of the ULBs the proposed investments were not significant to take up
comprehensive schemes. Project management cost increased as a minimum number of dedicated
Project Implementation Units were to be put in place irrespective of the size of the investment
proposed.

6.2.2.2 Complexity:

(a)     UGD works are generally complex in nature. Non
availability of work fronts, traffic diversion issues,
encroachments, working in narrow lanes, rocky strata
encountered during the earth work, marshy land etc., added to
the delays in implementation.

(b)     Unrealistic timeline estimation for UGD projects.
                                                                           Marshy Land

                                                (c)   Inadequate market capacity to implement
                                                UGD & 24x7 water supply works.

                                                (d)     Inadequate Market capacity to supply the
                                                required quantity of materials e.g. Glazed
                                                Stoneware pipe etc.

                                                (e)     Establishing last mile connectivity to the
                                                end consumer was a huge challenge and was time
                                                consuming in the case of UGD and 24 x7 Water
                                                Supply projects.

6.2.2.3 Inadequate Capacity and Human resource at ULB:

(a)    The ULBs were understaffed and did not have adequate key professionals to carry out the
works.

6.2.2.4 Technical non-responsiveness of bids and high tender premiums:

(a)     Delay in completing the procurement activities owing to high tender premium and
technical non-responsiveness.

6.2.2.5 Land Acquisition and associated legal issues in respect of STP land:

(a)     Owing to delay due to non-availability of STP land, works could not been taken up in
respect of Athani and Sakleshpur towns.
(b)     Withdrawal of consent for the construction of STP in Tiptur by KSPCB delayed the
completion of the Project. Identification of alternate land took time.

(c)     Non-availability of work fronts to lay UGD lines, storm water drain etc., also resulted in
delays.


                                               67
(d)     Work on Sira and Hassan storm water drains was delayed owing to a High Court stay.

6.2.3   Steps Taken to Overcome the Challenges:

Dedicated Project Implementation Arrangement and Monitoring Mechanism:

(a)     Dedicated Project Implementation Units (PIUs) were set up for effective implementation
of the project works taken up by the ULBs. In addition, Project Consultants (PC) were also
appointed to assist the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in preparing the DPRs and day to day
supervision of construction, quality assurance and quality certification.

(b)     The overall project implementation monitoring was done by the District Level
Implementation Committee (DLIC) at the district level, under the Chairmanship of the Deputy
Commissioners and concerned elected representatives like panchayat President, MLAs, MLCs and
MPs, and the KMRP Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) at the KUIDFC head office. The PMU at the
head office had the responsibility of overall management of the project and the PIU for Pkgs 1, 2
& 3. Since monitoring all the project towns from the head office was difficult, the Pkg - 4 ULBs
were monitored by the respective Deputy Project Directors (DPDs) of KUIDFC. A dedicated cell
comprising technical and managerial staff was created in the divisional offices of Belgaum,
Dharwad and Gulburga.

(c)      Delegation of powers at the ULB and district levels to approve DPRs, invite tenders, award
works, accord extension of time, approve variation etc., had aided in speedy implementation of the
Project, besides creating ownership of the Project.

(d)    In addition to the PIU and PC Third Party Quality Auditors were appointed for monitoring
work quality.

(e)    Developed a web based system for project management which facilitated real time
monitoring of the progress of the Project (physical and financial), and online RA Bill entry/M-
Book measurements in the project ULBs for tracking of bills and issues online.

(f)     Review meetings at the level of Chief Secretary, Additional Chief Secretary - GoK,
Additional Chief Secretary/ Principal Secretary - UDD and Managing Director, KUIDFC, were
conducted separately for a stronger focus on timely execution of contracts, disbursements and
obtaining necessary clearances from the line departments.

(g)    With a view to avoid delays in payment, direct payment to contractors through Real Time
Gross Settlement (RTGS) was made.

(h)     Project Exit Policy was prepared to ensure proper handing over of the assets and the records
to the ULBs.

Dedicated focus on selection of Sub-Projects:

(a)     Improved criteria for selection of sub-projects, with a strong focus on local needs,
ownership, sustainability and financial sustainability were introduced. The sub-projects to be
funded were selected on the basis of well-defined consultative processes. All participating ULBs
were involved while the sub-projects were appraised for funding; this resulted in fixation of
beneficiary contribution and user charges through council resolutions. The implementation
arrangement had not only facilitated empowerment but also developed a sense of greater ownership


                                                68
in the participating ULBs, thus enabling them to leverage the technical expertise of the Nodal
Agency.

Dedicated focus on delays by the contractors:

(a)     For slow moving contracts, delay mitigation plans were prepared in consultation with the
contractors. Sequencing of work based on the availability of work front was done.

Dedicated efforts to enhance bid competition:

(a)     With a view to enhance bid competition, Bidders Conferences were organised with all the
prospective bidders, especially for UGD and Water Supply works, to understand the ground reality.
Subsequently, necessary amendments were incorporated in the bid documents.

(b)      To ensure transparency in selection of contractors, an e-tendering system, with features
like online payment of bid document fees and bid security was introduced.

(c)     80% to 50% of peak rate of construction was provided with respect to 24x7 water supply
contracts.

(d)     JV/sub-contracting experience was considered for 24x7 water supply contracts.

Efforts for sustainability of UGD and Water Supply scheme:

(a)     NGO services were availed for creating awareness and improving coverage by conducting
IEC activities, training of plumbers and other stakeholders, survey of domestic, non-domestic and
commercial connections, and support to households for submission of applications.

Dedicated efforts to resolve interdepartmental clearances and LAQ issues:

(a)   Inter-departmental coordination meetings were conducted under the chairmanship of the
UD minister, to resolve inter-departmental issues.

(b)    Regular review meetings were held at the district level under the Chairmanship of the
Deputy Commissioners to resolve LAQ and other issues.

Steps taken for sustainability:

(a)    Levy of user charges (Volumetric Tariff): With a view to ensure that all the 24 x7 water
supply projects are made self-sustainable, user charges were levied to cover both the O&M
expenditure and the debt servicing requirement. 40% of the capital cost was provided as loan to the
ULB.

(b)     Private operators were appointed through Performance Based Management contracts for
the operation and maintenance of all 24/7 water supply and UGD towns.

Focus on environment and social sustainability:

(a)     The State had put in place a comprehensive Environment and Social Assessment
Framework for all projects assisted by KMRP to identify and implement measures to mitigate and
address all environment and social impacts.


                                                  69
6.2.4   Outcomes :

(a)      In order to have technical completeness and to ensure that at least the core area of all the
UGD towns was taken up, additional areas were considered in the towns of Chikkaballpur,
Doddaballpur, Harihara, Humnabad, Tiptur and Badravathi. Further, for speedy commissioning of
the project, House Service Connections upto property boundary was included under the project,
which was originally not envisaged. UGD work amounting to Rs. 21 cr has been completed in
Chikkaballapur and the UGD missing link works at Hassan and Chintamani have been completed
at a cost of Rs. 6.20 cr. Works amounting to Rs. 104.35 cr are under progress in Doddaballapur,
Bhadravathi, Tiptur, Humnabad and Harihara. Sewer network length of 381 km has been laid and
54,950 houses are getting connected to the network.

(b)      In order to ensure that the UGD assets are put to proper use and the service levels are
significantly improved, outsourcing of O&M through a performance based management contract
is being explored. Bid document for the same, in collaboration with World Bank, has been prepared.
The said bid document will serve as a model bid document for the entire State for outsourcing of
UGD services. The said initiative will not only bring in efficiency and external expertise but will
also build ULB capacity.

(c)      With an objective to bring water sector reforms in smaller urban areas by providing 24 x7
continuous pressurized water supply, the State had proposed to upgrade the existing intermittent
water supply in the towns of Nanjungud, Magadi and Haliyal to 24 x7 Water Supply through
performance based management contracts by appointing an operator. This contractual structure
aimed at O&M of bulk and distribution through a private operator on a 24 x7 basis. The said
initiative was not only to ensure continuous water supply to all the consumers of the ULB but also
to bring in strong reform measures like reduction in Unaccounted for Water by 100% billing,
reduction in physical losses, adoption of volumetric tariff, operation and maintenance of bulk and
distribution of water supply for a period of 5 years. In addition, three 24/7 water supply
augmentation works amounting to Rs. 9.50 cr. has also been taken up under KMRP. A distribution
network of 249.629 km have been laid and 23,204 houses are being provided with continuous water
supply.

(d)    SWD length of 30 km, amounting to Rs. 33 cr has been completed in Sringeri, Hassan,
Savanur, Kolar, Robertsonpet, Gurmitkal, Chitradurgaand Chintamani.

(e)     Road length of 252 km amounting to Rs. 118 cr has been completed in Madikeri, Sringeri,
Chittapur, Hassan, Kolar, Savanur, Robertsonpet, Chitradurga, Chintamani, Kanakapura,
Nagamangala, Shimoga, Chikkamagalur and Hiriyur.

(f)     Construction of 3139 nos. LCS units at a cost of Rs. 5.5 cr has been completed.

(g)    The work of developing a landfill site in Chitradurga at the cost of Rs. 1.56 cr has been
completed. Bid documents for outsourcing O&M through performance based management contract
was prepared with the assistance of WB.


6.2.5   Lessons Learned:

(a)     There were two stages of studies viz., preparation of the Capital Investment Plan and
subsequently the preparation of a Detailed Project Report. These were time consuming and resulted
in delays in the implementation of the Project. With a view to overcome the same, it is now
proposed to have one stage of comprehensive study and based on the study report we may have

                                                 70
turnkey contracts where the contractor shall design, build , operate and transfer. The said system
will not only save time but will also ensure proper accountability.

(b)    During the implementation of the Project, it was found that the performance of the PMC
were not satisfactory resulting in delays in the issue of drawings, variations etc. However, there
were no penalty clauses in consultancy contract to penalise the consultants

(c)     Owing to high tender premium, a lot of tenders had to be re-bid resulting in delay, and
financial burden on the State. With a view to avoid delays, price negotiation shall be allowed in
exceptional circumstances.

(d)      All UGD projects to have a time frame of minimum 24 - 20 months, depending upon the
size of contract. Henceforth, providing HSC up to the property boundary to be part of contract.

(e)     Land acquisition prior to commencement of tendering activities.

(f)     All work fronts to be kept ready before award of contract and O&M of assets shall be part
of all works contract for a minimum of 3-5 years.

(g)     Entrustment of works to other government departments directly may also be allowed for
timely completion of works.

(h)     Adjudication & Arbitration may be substituted with court settlements.

(i)     With a view to enhance bid competition, packaging of smaller contracts into a single high
value contract may also be considered to attract big contractors.

(j)    For contracts that extend beyond 12 months, price escalation clause shall be made
mandatory.

(k)     Bonus for early completion may also be made mandatory.

(l)     LD shall be levied for the balance work amount only, instead of having a per day penalty.

6.3     Component C- Greater Bangalore Development Component:

6.3.1   Greater Bangalore -Road Development Component:

6.3.1.1 Back Ground:

(a)      Under the said component 125 km of road was laid in Bangalore. This activity was
processed as retroactive financing, hence the project was completed well within the Project closure
period. The Project was implemented by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahangara Palike. For the first time
plastic waste (granules) was mixed with the bitumen in asphalting of roads.

6.3.2   Greater Bangalore –UGD & Pro-Poor Component:

6.3.2.1 Background:

(a)     This sub-component supported construction of underground sewerage system for the
erstwhile eight ULBs around Bangalore City covering 259 Sq. m, which benefited the residents
through 240,000 sewer connections leading to safe disposal of sewage. This sub-component also

                                                71
provided support to BWSSB in financing a Project Management Consultant (PMC) to design and
implement the UGD program, technical assistance, studies, training and incremental operating
costs to enhance BWSSB capacity. The entire work was divided into 24 civil works and one goods
and equipment package.

6.3.2.2 Challenges Faced :

(a)     Revision in Project Cost: The Greater Bangalore - UGD component was originally
conceptualised in 2004-05. Based on the pre-feasibility report, the project cost was estimated and
approved at Rs. 568 crores. DPRs were prepared in 2008. Owing to repeated revisions in the
Schedule of Rates, changes in design and high tender premiums, the project cost increased
substantially. In order to meet the additional cost, the Project was dovetailed with the GoI project
‘Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission’ (JNNURM).

(b)     Inadequate Market Capacity: In the first 2 rounds of bidding there was poor response from
the bidders.

(c)     Implementation issues: Unrealistic estimation of time line for implementation. UGD works
are Complex in nature and there were work front related issues like rock, narrow stretches etc.,
which eventually resulted in huge delays. There were huge requirements of inter-departmental
clearances and LAQ, owing to the sheer size of the work of laying 2400 Km of underground sewer
pipelines.

6.3.2.3 Steps taken to overcome the said challenges :

Design and Estimates:

(a)    The contracts/ packages were designed to cover a sewer zone that will have a number of
catchment areas. Lateral sewers were provided in these catchments and they were in turn were
connected to the sub-mains and main lines that carry sewage to STPs. As and when a catchment
was completed, connection was provided to the STP.

(b)     Owing to poor initial response to the bids and exorbitant tender premium, a Consultation
work shop was organized jointly by BWSSB and the WB Mission for the contractors and material
suppliers to understand the ground realities. Based on the inputs received from the workshop, bid
documents were modified, thereby resulting in substantial improvement in the bid response.

(c)     Keeping in view the quantum of work, the actual requirement of PMC staff was worked
out and additional staff support was proposed.

(d)     Pre-cast/ FRP for man holes, inspection chambers etc., were proposed depending upon the
site condition.

(e)    During the DPR preparation stage, a Social and Environmental Management Framework
(SEMF) including a generic EMP and standard monitoring plan was developed for identifying key
environmental risks, and for the preparation of a sub-project specific environmental management
plan.

Steps taken for improving bid response:

(a)     For speedy implementation, multiple packages were proposed based on the assessment of
contractor of generic EMP and standard monitoring plan.

                                                72
(b)    A Slice & Package system was introduced to enable the contractors to participate in the bid
depending upon their capacity.

(c)     Joint venture/sub-contracting was allowed to enhance competition.

(d)     Tender documents were prepared to enable participation of national and international
bidders by adopting both NCB (National Competitive Bidding) and ICB (International Competitive
Bidding) methods of bidding.

(e)     Water supply work experience was also considered while fixing the qualification criteria.

(f)     Quantity of work required for eligibility was relaxed from 80% to 50% of peak rate of
construction.

(g)  The qualification criteria of pipeline work of the GSW/RCC pipeline was modified as
GSW/RCC/GRP/HDPE/PVC/DI/CI/MS.

(h)     Mobilization advance was increased from 5% to 10%.

(i)     Provision for material advance to the tune of 90% for the supply of pipes at site after third
party inspection was made.

Interdepartmental Clearance and LAQ:

(a)     During the implementation there were several interdepartmental issues like clearance from
National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), Railways crossing, Bengaluru Development
Authority (BDA) Crossings etc., which were hampering the progress of the Project.

(b)     Review meetings at the level of Chief Secretary - GoK, Additional Chief Secretary - GoK,
Additional Chief Secretary - UDD, and Chairman BWSSB were conducted for a stronger focus on
timely execution of contracts, disbursements and obtaining necessary clearances from the line
departments.

(c)    Regular monthly review meetings were conducted by the MD, KUIDFC to understand the
impediments in the timely execution of the Project and to take corrective measures.

(d)     A Task Force was constituted for the purpose of resolving issues related to land and other
clearances under BBMP and an LAQ specialist was appointed for the purpose of identifying land
boundaries and expeditiously sorting out alignment issues in the Project.

Third Party Audit:

(a)     A third party independent agency was appointed to review and monitor the performance of
the Project through its entire lifecycle of implementation, on the basis of a detailed on-site review,
and examination of appropriate documents.

Project Monitoring Units:

(a)     A dedicated Project Monitoring Unit comprising of one Executive Engineer and two
Assistant Engineers was established in the BWSSB head office for overall monitoring of the Project
and to be a single point of contact for all the stake holders, line agencies, WB and KUIDFC. The

                                                 73
Project Monitoring Unit was also responsible for collating all technical and financial information
of the Project.

Environmental and Social Management:

(a)     A dedicated Environmental and Social cell was created for monitoring the environmental,
health and safety aspects and for coordination during implementation of the Project. This cell has
an urban poverty specialist, a communication specialist and three community organizers, under the
headship of a social development officer.

6.3.2.4 Outcomes:

(a)      The Greater Bangalore - Sanitation Project, and the Greater Bangalore elements emerged
profoundly in maximizing the social, environmental and economic benefits and in promoting
institutional stability. Some of the finance plus under the component are as follows:

(b)     Enhanced coverage - The revised coverage under the Project was to support construction
of 2314 km network as against the original 1750 km. Total number of house service connection
increased from 1,20,000 to 240,000 . The target population increased from 16 to 24 lakhs.

(c)      Improved public health by reducing the contamination of ground water resources due to
onsite sewage disposal/open defecation.

(d)     Minimized the pollution of storm water channels, tanks, scenic lakes and ground water
aquifers.




      Vengayyana Kere (300 to500 Dia RCC Pipe-                 Hebbala Lake ( 1000 Dia RCC Pipe- 1600 rmt)
      420 rmt)
(e)      Reduced pollution in about 70 lakes.

(f)      Comprehensive coverage of all the slum households (both notified and non-notified slums)
through construction of toilets/ providing sewer connection. This would perhaps be the first time
in India wherein such a comprehensive coverage is being tried out.

(g)     Eliminated unsanitary overflows from septic tanks and other sanitation facilities and
replaced the used septic tanks, which helped to generate substantial cost savings, beside other
public health benefits.




                                                   74
      Varathur Lake (600 Dia RCC Pipe- 2400 rmt)        Agara Lake ( 600 Dia RCC Pipe- 900 rmt)
6.3.2.5 Lesson Learned:

(a)      The qualification criteria in the document shall have the following addition aspects
regarding of possession of modern equipment for execution of work such as Proper Shoring and
strutting, Rock Cutting Machine, Dewatering pumps.

(b)     The entire alignment of trunk/main sewers location of wet wells etc., should be thoroughly
assessed with reference to the maps by visiting the site once the designs are prepared.

(c)    Proper Program Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT) and Critical Path Method
(CPM) to be used for preparing implementation plan of the project. Utilities to be shifted before
commencement of work.

(d)     Laying pipes at deeper depths to be avoided. Usage of glazed stoneware pipes (GSW) shall
be limited to less important roads and where the depth is less than 2 meters.

(e)     Testing laboratory to be identified before commencement of work for material testing and
have a well-established Quality Assurance Plan for materials used for construction.

7.      Compliance to loan covenants:




7.1     Most of the covenants in the agreement were complied with. WB was monitoring the
compliance on a regular basis. The compliance report was being sent to the WB with every
quarterly progress report. The covenants in respect of financial, technical and safeguard aspects
were complied with in general.

8.      Transition arrangements to sustain achievements post closure:

8.1    Institutional Development: All the reforms activities taken up under the Project are ongoing
development activity. As such, it is now proposed to support the reforms component under the
ADB funded NKUSIP project and at a later stage the same will be supported by the Karnataka
Municipal Data Society.

8.2     Municipal Investment Component: The State has committed to providing funding
assistance to complete the spill over works beyond the Project period. Further, a clear cut exit policy
has been drafted and all projects where work has been completed have been handed over to the
ULB. Further, with respect to the 24x7 water supply works, O&M of the assets created will be
managed by a private operator for 2-5 years through a performance based management contract,

                                                  75
and then the same will be handed over to the ULB. Standard bid documents and contracts for O&M
of sewerage systems through PMC have been developed by the State in association with WB.

8.3      Greater Bangalore - UGD & Pro-Poor Component: The State has committed to provide
funding assistance to complete the spill over works beyond the Project period. BWSSB has matured
into a relatively robust institutional framework and has successfully accessed funding from JBIC,
apart from World Bank for construction of STPs. BWSSB also has sufficient institutional
arrangements for implementation, monitoring, supervision and O&M. Further, current revenues in
the form of water and sanitation user fee would be sufficient to meet the regular expenditure of
O&M. Currently, the operational efficiency of BWSSB in terms of cost recovery is more than 90%

9.      Overall Experience with the Funding Agency:

9.1    The World Bank extended its support in execution of works right from the design stage to
completion stage:

9.1.1 Periodically reviewed DPRs prepared by the Consultants which resulted in betterment and
optimization of designs & estimates

9.1.2 Aided the Implementing Agencies in preparation of bid documents, Bid Evaluation Report
and resolved complex procurement issues.

9.1.3 The World Bank undertook a series of Implementation Support Review missions
throughout term of the project to track progress and to undertake mid-course corrections & actions
which contributed to its successful implementation. The Missions were followed by detailed
documentation of the status of the projects and guidance / recommendations through the Aid-
memoire, aimed at achieving the PDOs.

9.2      During the mid-phase of the Project, the WB assisted in Financial Restructuring of the
Project to bring in better accountability. The financial restructuring of the Project holistically
factored the specific constraints and opportunities which raised during the mid-term review of the
project and it was ensured that the PDO remained relevant and achievable while strengthening the
implementation.

9.3     The World Bank based on the recommendation of the DEA accorded 2 Project extensions.

9.4     WB extended support to the State by providing funding towards technical assistance to
address the ever growing SWM issues of Bangalore, which was not part of the original PDO.

9.5     With the assistance of WB, model bid documents for 24x7 Water Supply project,
outsourcing of O&M of UGD & SWM through a Performance Based Management Contract were
prepared in house with a greater focus on O&M.

10.     Key Observations:

10.1     Implementation of the Project involved multiple institutions and agencies and hence called
for effective institutional arrangements to ensure seamless coordination.

10.2    Urban infrastructure projects being very complex in nature and requires a realistic time
frame for implementation. Any urban infrastructure of this scale, requires 8-10 years for completion
and the project implementation needs to be on a tranche based system (stage-wise implementation).


                                                76
10.3   All the major works taken up shall have O&M as a part of the original scope of work.

10.4   Project Management Consultants to be appointed prior to signing of Loan Agreement.

10.5    Preparedness of the Implementing Agency to procure contracts worth of at least 30% of
the project cost to be ensured prior signing of Loan Agreement to adhere to the timelines.

10.6   There should be more flexibility in project design to support mid-course corrections or
modification of the Project Development Objectives.




                                             77
       Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                      78
                        Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Ganapathy, P.G. 2013. “KMRP—Knowledge Exchange on Municipal eGovernance.” World
Bank Institute.

Ghosh S. and P. Chature. 2014. “KMRP—Greater Bangalore Underground Drainage: Pro Poor
Sanitation Subcomponent.” World Bank.

KMRP Project Appraisal Document, February 14, 2006 (Report No. 31282-IN).

KMRP Loan and Project Agreement, May 2, 2006.

KMRP Restructuring Papers from March 15, 2011; January 13, 2012; and February 19, 2014.

KMRP Aide Memoires, Back to Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

KUIDFC, “Training Initiatives under KMRP Project” (PPT presentation).

KMRP, Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP- 2) April 29, 2010
Proceedings of the 31st Meeting of the Empowered Committee (EC) for KMRP, Vidhana
Soudha, Bangalore, 11.03.2015.

Rudraiah, L. R., “Mapping of Urban Areas. Trials and Tribulations and Approached from January
2016”, Government of Karnataka (Department of Town and Country Planning), April 2015.

State Institute for Urban Development, “KMRP: Capacity Building and Training Final Report”,
Mysore, May 2015.




                                             79
MAP




80
