Report No. PIC4971
Project Name                     Argentina-Employment Support Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Poverty Reduction/Employment
Project ID                       ARPA49268
Borrower                         Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Labor and Social Security
Office of Employment Policy and Training
Av. Leandro N. Alem 638
1001 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Telephone: (54-1) 310-5778/79
Fax: (54-1) 310-5781
Date PID Prepared                April 1997
Projected Board Date             June 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background. Argentina has been quite
successful in its recent stabilization and reform efforts. Outcomes
in the area of employment, however, have been disappointing. In
addition to dislocations in the labor market, few jobs have been
created. A highly centralized and rigid labor market has hindered
mobility, reabsorption of displaced labor, and wage flexibility,
and has resulted in a more costly and longer adjustment. In
addition, the new exchange rate parity, decreases in the relative
price of capital, low inflation, and nominal wage and labor market
rigidities favored quantitative adjustments (reduction of labor
force) over price adjustments. Wage and non-wage labor costs have
remained high in spite of high levels of unemployment (currently 17
percent). Greater employment creation will come about only from
increased economic activity, and particularly from lower labor
costs, and increased flexibility in contracting and collective
bargaining. The Government has already taken substantial measures
to reform the labor market, including reductions in labor taxes. In
December 1996 the President also signed emergency decrees which
began the process of decentralizing collective bargaining in small
and medium-sized firms. A law to reform the severance payment
system is before the legislature.
2.      Project Objectives. The objective of the project is to reduce
poverty by providing temporary income support to poor, unemployed
workers, as a transition measure while the impact of labor reforms
work through the economy.
3.      Project Description. The project would finance the expansion
of an existing public employment program administered by the
Ministry of Labor, called TRABAJAR. Under the program, subprojects
can be proposed by provinces, municipalities, and private
organizations. These subprojects are evaluated according to
objective criteria. The subprojects are small, quickly implemented,
labor-intensive investments in the areas of economic and social
infrastructure. The program encourages subprojects that are located
in poor communities. Under the program the sponsoring agency funds



the cost of materials and any skilled labor, and TRABAJAR finances
the wages of unskilled labor up to a maximum of $200/mo.
4.      Project Financing. The estimated size of the project is about
$3 billion, and would be financed by the Government of Argentina,
the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.
5.      Project Implementation. The TRABAJAR program is managed by
the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, including staff at both
the national office and the provincial and regional offices. The
Ministry provides the criteria and instructions for such projects.
It also assigns the resources for each province using a formula
which includes population, unemployment rate and level of poverty
(as measured by an indicator of unmet basic needs). Subprojects are
proposed by municipalities, provinces, national agencies or private
organizations. Up until now the major source of subproject
proposals has been municipalities. Subprojects will first be
evaluated to judge their viability in several respects including
economic, financial, technical, institutional and social. Viable
subprojects are then considered by committees constituted at the
regional level which include provincial managers of employment of
the Ministry of Labor, the regional manager of the Ministry, a
representative from the national office of the Ministry, and
members of civil society as observers. Subprojects are ranked by a
point system which rates them on each of the criteria. Projects are
then approved in the order of their ranking, subject to the amount
of funding provided. Payments to workers are made by checks by the
National Social Security Administration. Each subproject is
supervised periodically by provincial staff of the Regulation
Department of the Ministry. The projected implementation period for
the project is about two years.
6.      Project Sustainability. The expansion of TRABAJAR is planned
to be a transitional program that could be phased out gradually as
the greater flexibility of the labor market increases the rate of
job creation in the Argentine economy and results in a reduction in
the currently high levels of unemployment. We expect the
sustainability of subprojects to be high given the high share of
financing being provided by the municipal governments. During
project preparation the attention given to operations and
maintenance was increased in order to further promote the
sustainability of subprojects financed under TRABAJAR.
7.      Poverty Category. The project is part of the Program of
Targeted Interventions. The wage rate set by the program is
effective at self-targeting poor workers, and poor communities are
the most likely to benefit from the investments being financed.
8.      Environmental Aspects. The operation of the program includes
safeguards against damage to the environment and supervision of
mitigation measures, as necessary, for subprojects.
9.      Program Objective Categories. The project falls under the
category of Poverty Reduction (PA).
- 2-



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending Arpil 18, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Environmental Assessment
The Employment Support Project has been assigned a B category. The
subprojects financed under the loan are small (average size is
US$70,000) and most of the environmental impacts they will have
should be able to be predicted and subsequently avoided or
mitigated with common practices. All projects will be subject to an
evaluation process and a methodology to carry out environmental
impact analysis has been incorporated into the evaluation
methodology. The description of the methodology together with
forms, checklists, etc. is included in both the Operational Manual
as well as in the Guide for Presentation of Projects. Environmental
considerations are also incorporated in promotion and supervision
activities. The counterpart team, with Bank assistance, developed
the environmental process, checklists, forms, etc., using as models
best practices from other social funds as well as the Municipal
Development and FOPAR projects in Argentina. The evaluation
methodology, including environmental aspects, was reviewed at
appraisal and at negotiations. Environmental aspects will also be
included in an ex-post evaluation of a sample of projects.
- 4 -



