Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19553
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
SECOND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(TRABAJAR II)
[Ln. 41950-ARI
January 14,2000
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Current Unit      =     Argentine Peso
US$ 1.00              1 peso
FIscAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ANSES                          National Social Security Administration/Administracion
Nacional de Seguridad Social
CAS                            Country Assistance Strategy
IBRD                           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB                            Inter-American Development Bank
MIS                            Management Information System
MTSS                           Ministry of Labor and Social Security/Ministerio de
Trabajo y Seguridad Sociall
NGO                            Non-Governmental Organization
PIU                            Project Implementation Unit
SDS                            Secretariat of Social Development/Secretaria de
Desarrollo Social
SIEMPRO                        Information, Evaluation, and Monitoring System for Social
Programs ISistema de Informacion, Evaluaci6n, y
Monitoreo de Programas Sociales
TRABAJAR                       Argentina Public Works Program
Vice President           David de Ferranti
Country Unit Director   Myrna Alexander
Country Sector Leader    Alexandre Abrantes
Task Manager             Polly Jones



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE                                      ............................................................1
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................2
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Objectives and Description ......................................................4
Implementation Experience ......................................................7
Achievement of Original Objectives ......................................................7
Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................................                                        10
Project Sustainability .....................................................                                                     10
Bank Perfornance .....................................................                                                           12
Borrower Performance .....................................................                                                       12
Assessment of Outcome .....................................................                                                       13
Current and Future Operations .....................................................                                              13
Key Lessons Learned/ Recommendations for Future Operations .................................. 14
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table  1  Summary of Assessments .....................................................                                           15
Table 2: Related  Bank Loans/Credit .....................................................                                        16
Table 3: Project Timetable .....................................................                                                 17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................... 17
Table 5: Monitoring  Indicators .....................................................                                            18
Table 6:  Studies Completed .....................................................                                                18
Table 7:  Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................                                        19
Table 8A: Project Costs .....................................................                                                    20
Table 8B: Project Financing .....................................................                                                21
Table 9: Bank  Resources:  Staff Inputs (SW, Actual) ................................................... 21
Table  10: Bank Resources: Missions .....................................................                                        22
Table  11: Type of Subprojects Approved .....................................................                                    23
Table  12: Targeting Performance by Province .....................................................                                24
Table  13: Beneficiary Profile by  Sex .....................................................                                     25
Table  14: Program   Coverage of the Target Population by Month ................................. 26
APPENDIX
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT (LOAN 41950-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Social Protection
Project (Trabajar Program), for which Loan 41950-AR in the amount of US$200 million was
approved on June 20, 1997, signed on July 7, 1997, and made effective on September 25, 1997.
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1999. The last recovery of the special was processed in early
January 2000, together with a cancellation of about US$46,000.
The ICR was prepared by Karla McEvoy, Human Development Sector Management Unit
of the Latin American and Caribbean Regional Office and Kimberly Nead, consultant, under the
supervision of Polly Jones, Task Team Leader. Esther Peckham and Christina Mullins, Team
Assistants, were responsible for document production. The ICR was reviewed by Myma
Alexander, Alexandre Abrantes, Martin Ravallion, Mark Hagerstrom, Paul Levy, and John
Underwood. The Borrower prepared a separate report which is included as an appendix to the
ICR.
Preparation for this ICR is based, inter alia, on the Bank's final supervision/ICR mission,
which took place in November 1998, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, interviews with
relevant Bank staff and Government counterparts, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, ex-post evaluations of subprojects, reports on targeting performance and the impact
evaluation of Trabajar, and reports prepared by the Trabajar Project Implementation Unit (PIU).






SECOND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT (LOAN 41950-AR)
ARGENTINA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    The project supported Argentina's public works program known as Trabajar. The Loan
was approved by the Board on June 20, 1997, signed on July 7, 1997, and declared effective on
September 25, 1997. At the time of appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$1200
million, of which US$200 million was to be financed by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) loan, US$800 million by the Government of
Argentina, US$100 million by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and US$100
million by communities. Financing by the IDB fell through shortly before Board approval, after
Bank management decided, at the request of the Government, to drop the conditions related to
labor reform. The project closed on time, with the final recovery of the special account
occurring in early January 2000, together with the cancellation of a small amount (US$46,000).
Project Objectives
ii.    During 1995-96 poverty increased in Argentina, in large measure because of a rise in
unemployment exacerbated by the Tequila crisis. The development objective of the second
Social Protection Project was, thus, to reduce poverty by providing temporary income support to
poor, unemployed workers hired in the Trabajar public works program. Benefits were also
expected to be generated from the public works themselves, of which a large share would be
located in poor communities. Two components made up the project: (a) financing of unskilled
manual labor of Trabajar subprojects; and (b) financing of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   Approximately 17,000 subprojects were approved and implemented under the Trabajar
program and as of April 1999 about three-quarters of these had been successfully completed. A
larger than anticipated influx of project proposals at the beginning of project execution made it
difficult, initially, to implement some of the planned improvements in the project cycle. This led
to overwhelmed computer systems, while consequently delaying payments to beneficiaries.
Although the share of payments affected was small (less than 5 percent), the problem affected
some areas to a significant degree and caused demonstrations in several provinces. The PIU
resolved the problem, with the full support of others in the Ministry of Labor and Social Security
(MTSS), and for the remainder of the implementation period the process of making payments to
the relatively large number of beneficiaries in diverse locations proceeded normally.
iv.   The project achieved its primary objective to reduce poverty by providing temporary
income support (generally $200/month for about 5 months) to poor, unemployed workers. The
project created slightly over 400,000 temporary jobs, generating nearly $400 million in payments
2



to workers. The number of beneficiaries was slightly under 300,000 because some workers
participated in more than one project. This was about one-fifth of the estimated target population
of poor unemployed.
v.    An evaluation completed in mid-1998 found that over half of participant households had
incomes that placed them in the poorest 10 percent of the population. Nearly 80 percent of
households were in the bottom 20 percent of the income distribution. Since the latest Bank
estimate of urban poverty in Argentina is 29 percent (headcount), it is reasonable to conclude
from this evaluation that the vast majority of participating households is poor. This is very good
poverty targeting by international standards. The evaluation also found that the average net gain
to households from participating in the program, after subtracting forgone income, equaled $103
a month, or about half of the average Trabajar wage of $200.
Summary of Key Findings and Lessons Learned
*  Self-targeted public works programs can effectively direct the majority of cash transfers to
the poor, provided the wage rate is set no higher than the ruling market wage for unskilled
labor. Setting the wage rate at this level also minimizes perverse incentives by ensuring that
employed people do not find program participation attractive.
*  Close monitoring is needed during project execution to ensure that targeting is working and
to identify problems in the project cycle, as well as localities where performance has been
poor or where communities have not benefited at all.
-  While the labor requirement and low wage rate effectively target benefits to the poor,
proactive measures such as program promotion and technical assistance directed to less well
endowed municipalities and NGOs are often necessary to ensure that the poor in these
communities benefit from the program. Lack of resources to finance materials proved a
stumbling block to coverage in some poor municipalities.
*  The cost-effectiveness of workfare programs like Trabajar depends in large part on the value
of the assets created through the subprojects. Effective subproject evaluation, monitoring
and supervision are critical to ensuring that the subprojects produce benefits for poor
communities that go beyond temporary income transfers to unemployed members. With
respect to evaluation, visiting the site of the proposed subproject prior to the approval
decision is an important instrument to ensure that subprojects are appropriate and of good
quality. After project approval, effective monitoring and supervision of projects, including
periodic on-site visits, is essential to ensure the high quality of works and their timely
completion.
*  Demand-driven programs like Trabajar present specific management challenges because it is
difficult to predict and manage the inflow of subproject proposals. Unexpectedly high
numbers of incoming subproject proposals can strain the capacity of regional and provincial
staff to process them with adequate attention to ex-ante evaluation (for example, lack of
capacity to execute site visits). Similarly, it can divert staff attention from promotion and
technical assistance activities.
3



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 41950-AR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    Project Objectives and Description
1.    Project Background. The continuing economic recession that started with the Tequila
crisis perpetuated Argentina's high unemployment rate, which peaked at just over 1 8 percent in
late 1995. In May 1996 the unemployment rate was still at 17 percent overall and 40 percent
among the poorest 10 percent of the population. The second Social Protection Project was, thus,
a follow-up to the first Social Protection Project, which safeguarded selected social programs
during the 1995-96 crisis and provided income support to the unemployed via several
employment and training programs administered by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security
(MTSS). The loan also financed technical assistance to improve the MTSS's capacity to
implement efficient and effective employment policies and programs. As part of the
Government's effort to strengthen its social safety net, the MTSS had introduced the Trabajar
program in March 1996 to replace another public works program which was widely perceived as
ineffective. The new program was to provide low-wage employment in small-scale projects to
unemployed heads of poor households. The first Social Protection Project had helped finance
Trabajar in its startup phase and this support was extended under the second project as the
program was scaled up.
2.    Bank management first envisioned Social Protection II as a package: financing to expand
Trabajar in order to address the continuing level of high unemployment in the short-run, tied to
conditions related to reforms in the labor market with a view to increasing the potential of the
economy to create jobs over the longer term. The proposed conditions covered two areas -
enactment of reforms to decentralize collective bargaining and changes in the severance payment
regime. Shortly after project preparation began, the President signed three emergency decrees
which decentralized collective bargaining for small and medium-sized companies. At the same
time, the Government presented legislation to the Congress which would make it easier for firms
to lay off workers, including the establishment of a fully funded severance payment system.
However, intermediate level courts declared several key aspects of the decrees unconstitutional,
and severance payments legislation did not receive sufficient support in Congress.
3.    Given this impasse, and at the request of the Government, Bank management eliminated
the conditions before Board presentation. While the political environment at the time made it
extremely difficult for the Government to implement labor market reforms, Bank management
believed that there was commitment to continue to push forward on the reform (and the track
record of the Government had been good). Thus, Bank management concluded that there was
little to be gained from linking the project to the reforms. On the contrary, it might make reform
more difficult for the Government. On the other hand, the Inter-American Development Bank,
(IDB), which had planned to co-finance the project, decided against supporting the project given
4



the lack of progress on labor reform. The Bank decided that, even without the link to labor
reforms, the project deserved its support, which would finance only 16 percent of total project
costs, because Trabajar was targeted to the poor and our participation could help improve
program management and effectiveness. In March 1998, as part of its commitment to the
International Monetary Fund, the Government submitted new labor legislation to the Congress
which passed later in the year, but it essentially left unchanged the existing labor market
regulations in the area of collective bargaining and severance payments.
4.    Another issue raised by the Bank during preparation was the possibility of the
Government streamlining other social expenditures in order to free up more domestic resources
for Trabajar. While agreeing on the desirability of the approach, the Government argued that in
the short term such streamlining would be difficult to accomplish. The lesson leamed here is
that in order to facilitate efficient reallocations of expenditures in times of crisis there is a need
for an ex-ante public expenditure review. As a consequence of the dialogue, the Bank and the
Government agreed that the Government would prepare a public expenditure review on its own,
with financial and technical support from the Bank. This review was completed in late 1999.
Objectives
5.    The objective of the second Social Protection Project was modest - to provide temporary
income support to poor, unemployed workers hired in the Trabajar public works program.
Benefits would also be generated to communities from infrastructure projects, of which a large
share would be located in poor communities.
6.    The Project objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Argentina. It supported the CAS objective of enhancing social development,
including poverty alleviation and strengthening the social safety net. The increase in poverty
that occurred in 1995-1996 was closely related to the growth of unemployment in Argentina.
The CAS, which was discussed by the Board on May 15, 1997, indicated that the Bank would
finance two operations in support of Trabajar in the 1996-98 period.
7.    Social Protection II, without an explicit link to labor market reforms, did not address the
long-term problem of high unemployment in Argentina. The expansion of Trabajar probably
did not lower the chances for needed labor market reform by removing pressure for change.
With 300,000 beneficiaries, the program reached 20 percent of the target group of poor
unemployed.'
8.    Project Design and Organization. The Trabajar Program has been managed by a small
team within the Directorate of Employment and Training Policies in the MTSS. Day-to-day
management was handled by the provincial Offices of Employment and Training. Sponsoring
agencies-municipalities, provinces, national agencies and nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs)-submit subprojects to the provincial offices for evaluation. Municipalities accounted
for the largest share of project proposals (about two-thirds). The participation of NGOs
'It should be noted that Trabajar was not the only public works program operating in Argentina at this time. The MTSS
operated two much smaller programs (Forestar and Community Services). In addition, some provinces organized
programs. The largest of these was the Barrios Bonaerenses, managed by the Provincial Institute of Employment of the
Province of Buenos Aires. During the 18 months from July 1997-December 1998, this program financed 176,847 workers.
5



increased slightly during the sharp expansion of the program, and their 16 percent share
compares favorably with the experience of social funds in Latin America. The Ministry initially
allocated program resources to provinces according to the distribution of poor unemployed
throughout the country. While the Ministry made the initial inter-provincial allocation, the
program was demand-driven. Budget resources were reallocated to respond to the differences in
demand from provinces.
9.     To be considered for approval, subprojects had to: (i) fall within the accepted menu of
subprojects; (ii) be technically sound; (iii) be implemented in a short period of time (3 to 6
months); (iv) employ no more than 100 persons; and (v) offer a monthly wage of $200 or less to
participating workers. The types of projects eligible for financing included minor construction,
repair, extension and remodeling of basic sanitation infrastructure (potable water, latrines,
sewers, drainage); social infrastructure (schools, health facilities, community centers, sports
facilities); economic infrastructure (secondary roads, small bridges, sidewalks, bicycle paths,
irrigation); and low-cost housing, gas, and electricity systems.2
10.    Proposals were evaluated by trained professionals using a methodology that covered
economic, technical, financial, institutional, environmental and social aspects of the subprojects.
The evaluation incorporated checks on costs using a data base of unit cost comparisons for
similar types of subprojects. Proposals that received a positive evaluation were considered for
approval at monthly meetings held at the regional level. If the total financing needed in any
month based on the number of viable projects exceeded the budget, the viable projects were
ranked according to a series of criteria, the most important of which was the extent of poverty in
the locality where the project was to be executed. If the project was approved, Trabajar funded
the wage payments to the workers-beneficiaries and the sponsoring agency covered the cost of
materials and any skilled labor. The sponsoring agency implemented the project, with periodic
supervision throughout implementation from the provincial offices. Payments to workers were
made through checks processed by the National Social Security Agency (ANSES) and paid
directly to the workers in different payment locations (banks or post offices). Before payment,
cross-checks were made to ensure that the beneficiary was not receiving unemployment
compensation nor was employed in the formal sector.
2For a few months at the end of 1997, the Bank agreed to a temporary change in the operational manual in order to expand the list
of eligible typologies to include community services. These were "service" projects, not construction, that included such
activities as expansion of health attention, child and other feeding programs, old-age care, and child care facilities. During
project preparation the Bank and the Government had considered including community services in the list of eligible
project sub-types, but had decided against it for several reasons: these projects are more difficult to evaluate; the existing
program in the Ministry was organized differently from Trabajar; and it was more difficult to ensure the sustainability of
the project after financing from the program concluded. Nevertheless, these projects were popular with the Provinces
because they demanded less counterpart resources and traditionally had hired more women as beneficiaries. Although the
Ministry continued to operate the Community Service Program using its own resources, it was funded at a lower level than
Trabajar. At the request of the Government, the Bank agreed to open the typology of eligible projects for a short period of
time with a ceiling on financing. The central project implementation unit handled the evaluation and prepared the necessary
materials to support this work, as well as the subsequent supervision. In the end, these projects accounted for
approximately 8 percent of the portfolio.
6



II.   Implementation Experience
11.   The size of the loan-US$200 million-implied a quadrupling of the initial pilot
Trabajar program and the project entailed a total of approximately $1.2 billion in small
infrastructure works. Some questioned whether the program could absorb such a large amount
of money and expand so quickly. As it turned out, the demand for sub-project financing was
high and the MTSS implemented the loan on schedule. Because of the lack of IDB financing,
the Government in fact increased its financing while the participating municipalities and other
implementation agencies financed the largest share of total costs. The Bank's contribution thus
amounted to only 16 percent.
12.   Approximately 17,000 subprojects were approved and implemented under the Trabajar
program in the time period covered by the Social Protection II Project. The months of August,
September, and October 1997 produced the greatest influx of project proposals, just as the
Bank's loan became effective. The large amount of proposals made it difficult initially to adhere
to the planned evaluation strategy of visiting at least 30 percent of proposed project sites. In
addition, the high volume overwhelmed computer systems, delaying payments to some
beneficiaries. Although the share of payments affected was low (less than 5 percent), the
problem caused demonstrations in several provinces. The issue received serious attention from
both the PIU, as well as from other areas of the MTSS, and was resolved by improving the
payments system, as well as arranging for special transfers to cancel outstanding obligations.
After this, payments were processed normally despite the large number of beneficiaries and their
diverse locations.
III.   Achievement of Original Objectives
13.   Temporary financial assistance to unemployed poor. Social Protection II achieved its
primary objective, to reduce poverty by providing temporary income support to poor,
unemployed workers. The project generated slightly over 400,000 temporary jobs for which
nearly $400 million in payments to workers were made. Since some workers participated in
more than one project, the number of beneficiaries was slightly under 300,000 (compared to the
target of 250,000). Most Trabajar participants (87 percent) received $200 a month. This level is
the nationally mandated minimum wage and compares to an average income for urban unskilled
workers in Argentina of about $350 per month.
14.   Evidence on the extent to which Trabajar was successful in targeting the poor and the
amount of the income gain to participating households is available from an impact evaluation
completed in mid-1 998.3 The evaluation estimated the real income gains to households
participating in Trabajar by combining information from a single cross-sectional survey of
program participants with a much larger and comparable survey that was being implemented at
about the same time under the Bank-financed Social Protection I project (SIEMPRO
component). By matching the surveyed program participants with non-participants in the larger
survey based on their characteristics, it was possible to create a counterfactual group and
3 See Jalan and Ravallion, "Income Gains to the Poor: Estimates for Argentina's Trabajar Program", July 1999, Policy Research
Working Paper No. 2149, for a complete description of the methodology as well as the results.
7



estimate what program participants' incomes would have been if they had not participated in
Trabajar.
15.   The evaluation found that over half of participant households had incomes that placed
them in the poorest 10 percent of the population. Nearly 80 percent of households were in the
bottom 20 percent of the income distribution. Since the Bank's most recent estimate of urban
poverty in Argentina is 29 percent (headcount), it is reasonable to conclude from this evaluation
that the vast majority of participating households were poor. This is very good poverty targeting
by international standards. This evaluation also found that the average net gain to households
from participating in the program, after subtracting forgone income, equaled $103 a month, or
about half of the average Trabajar wage of $200.
16.    There is also have evidence of Trabajar's success in targeting resources to poorer
departments.4 Under the first phase of Trabajar (1996), financed under the first Social
Protection project, the poorest department nationally (with an incidence of unmet basic needs of
76 percent) received $30 per person more than the least poor department (in which 3 percent of
the population have unmet basic needs). Under the second phase of Trabajar (1997-98) the
poorest department received $80 more per person than the least poor department, a gain of
almost $50 per person.5 Regardless of the high level of targeting and resources to the poorest
localities, there were occasional complaints about the distribution of funds favoring the central
administration's political party. In the province of Chaco, in which a separate analysis was
made, there was evidence that the political affiliation of local authorities was associated with
access to Trabajar resources within the province.
17.   Participation by women did not increase significantly in the second phase of Trabajar
compared to the first phase. They accounted for 17 percent of participating workers, compared
to 15 percent in the first phase of Trabajar. The rate of women's participation varied greatly
across provinces, with some having relatively high participation (30 percent) and others very low
(5 percent). The main actions taken to improve the participation of women included expanding
publicity efforts on the program, stressing the fact that participation was open equally to women
and "jaw-boning" provincial managers and mayors in areas of low participation. Some
consideration was given to implementing other measures, such as modifying the ranking criteria
to give an incentive to projects incorporating more women or offering informal child care. The
PIU and the Bank decided against such changes due to the difficulty of implementing certain
measures (providing daycare would involve licensing issues) and hesitation to dilute the
emphasis on self-targeting in poor areas. (Note: The more subtle efforts to increase the
participation of women seem to be paying off gradually. The participation of women in the third
phase of Trabajar has risen to 20 percent).
18.    The 1998 impact evaluation study (Jalan and Ravallion) found no evidence of gender
bias. The net wage gains from the program accruing to female participants are virtually identical
to the gains for male participants. If there were a gender bias one would expect to see
4A department is the jurisdiction below the provincial level. There are 510 departments in Argentina. For greater Buenos Aires
the equivalentjurisdiction ispartido.
5 Reports on targeting performance were prepared periodically during project supervision. For details of the analysis, see
"Reaching Poor Areas in a Federal System", M. Ravallion's Policy Research Paper, No. 1901, and "Monitoring Targeting
Performance when Decentralized Allocations to the Poor are Unobserved", Policy Research Working Paper, No. 2080.
8



unexploited welfare gains from higher female participation as shown in lower foregone income.
This was not the case. However, the distribution of female participation was less pro-poor, as
indicated by household income per capita; while over half of the members of participating
families were in the poorest decile nationally, this was true of less than 40 percent of the
members of female participants' families. This probably reflects lower wages for women in
other work, making the Trabajar wage more attractive to the non-poor. (This may also explain
why generally in some of the poorest provinces the program's ability to reach the poorest of the
poor was not as great as in the richer provinces.)
19.   Asset creation in poor communities. Coming to ajudgement on the performance of
Trabajar in the area of asset creation is difficult because of the mix of development objectives
and because the program worked in several sectors. It cannot be compared fairly with straight
infrastructure projects that have no labor intensity or poverty/targeting objectives. Nor is it
completely fair to compare it to other schemes that guarantee employment, but subordinate the
infrastructure creation goals. Despite these difficulties, evidence from sub-project supervision
and an evaluation of a sample of completed projects, indicated that in most cases the subprojects
financed by Trabajar generated positive benefits for the communities in which they were
located. These projects needed to be completed within a period of about six months, meaning
that the benefits to communities were to be realized relatively quickly. The project menu of
Trabajar also was designed to emphasize activities (water supply, social infrastructure, etc.)
which would generate more than just temporary benefits: projects which included only activities
such as cleaning drains, general maintenance, and the like were not eligible. Political and
financial support for the program depended to a significant degree on assuring that the work
completed was not wasteful. Moreover, given the very high counterpart requirement on the part
of local authorities, it would be unlikely that they would direct resources to investments under
Trabajar which did not generate benefits beyond temporary employment.
20.    Table 11 in the statistical annex presents information on the number of projects
completed in the major categories. The most common projects were works for improving
drainage and sewers, as well as improvements to roads and urban infrastructure. Over 1,000
projects in educational infrastructure (classroom construction or school rehabilitation) were
undertaken. A similar number of community infrastructure projects were executed, including
day-care, community and sports centers. Trabajar also financed 1500 projects to construct low-
cost housing, which were typically done at a far lower cost than those built under the
Government's traditional public housing program, FONAVI, and were targeted to poor
recipients.
21.    Increasing subproject quality and ensuring timely completion was a challenge throughout
Trabajar as operations sharply expanded. The Project set a goal of completing at least 70
percent of projects on time in the first phase of Trabajar6 and met this target. Although the rate
of subproject completion improved during the second phase, the completion rate of 72 percent
fell short of the target of 77 percent. An analysis of performance among provinces shows that
6 As the project progressed, instead of focusing on timely completion (one of the key monitoring indicators), the project
implementation unit and the Bank chose "satisfactory completion." The definition of satisfactory completion was that the
work could be used for the purposes intended. It was decided that this was a more important aspect of the quality of the
projects finalized than whether a project was behind schedule, although information on delays in project implementation
continues to be collected, analyzed and used.
9



nearly half of the provinces either met or exceeded the target of 77 percent. Poor performance
was concentrated in a few areas (Tucuman, La Rioja, and Neuquen, for example). In addition,
data indicate that over time, the share has risen as sponsoring agencies complete projects using
their own resources. For the program as a whole, as of April 1999 about three-quarters of
projects had been successfully completed.
IV.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Subject to Government Control
22.   The effects of the weather phenomenon El Nino were felt in at least four Argentine
provinces, particularly in Misiones, and disrupted implementation. The floods caused by this
unusual weather condition during the months of January and February 1998 made it difficult to
implement new subprojects and delayed the completion of subprojects already in progress.
Funds from Trabajar were used to support reconstruction subprojects in the wake of these
floods.
Factors Subject to Government Control
23.   The Government's contribution of counterpart funds was higher than initially
programmed, once the IDB co-financing was eliminated, and this allowed Trabajar to have a
greater impact on poverty. This also allowed the program to respond quickly to the very large
demands coming from the local communities and facilitated the program's rapid scaling up in the
first year.
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
24.   The high levels of commitment and competence within the PIU were the main factors
behind the successful implementation record of Trabajar. Staff continuity also contributed to
good results. Supervision reports indicate that the project performed satisfactorily throughout
the implementation phase, and cost changes in the project were not significant.
V.   Project Sustainability
25.   The funding of the Trabajar program by the World Bank represented a decision to
finance a temporary program that would be phased out gradually as the increased flexibility of
the labor market together with economic growth raised the rate of job creation in the Argentine
economy and unemployment decreased. However, it is recognized that such a program could be
a tool that is always "on the shelf' and implemented in times of economic crisis. If the Trabajar
program is to be used in this way, it must be well-designed, particularly with regard to targeting
and subproject quality and timely execution.
26.   The Social Protection II project helped improve the design and targeting of the Trabajar
program during the 1997/98 period; monitoring and evaluation have shown that Trabajar was
extremely well-targeted to the poor, and although the demand for subprojects was high, the
Government was able to meet the demand with relatively few difficulties. This indicates a high
10



probability that the program could continue successfully without Bank assistance.7 Moreover,
the Government expressed its commitment to the Trabajar program by contributing more than
anticipated in counterpart resources and in requesting a third Social Protection Project from the
World Bank, which continues support for Trabajar.
27.    At this point, the Trabajar program is funded for FY 2000, albeit at a declining level, and
policy discussions are underway with the new administration to position Trabajar as an essential
part of Argentina's social safety net program. The idea is for the program to be scaled up or
down according to economic and social conditions. Thus, it is likely that the program, or some
variation of it, will continue to be part of the Government's set of social protection programs.
One point which needs to be determined is the optimal level of funding for the program during
favorable economic conditions. Given the present poverty level of 29 percent and
unemployment of about 14 percent, there is still a high demand for the program. Argentina's
new Law of Fiscal Responsibility, which anticipates generating surpluses to be used when there
is a cyclical downturn, ought to allow programs such as Trabajar to be scaled up more easily in
the future when the need arises. These are areas addressed in the latest Poverty Assessment for
Argentina, presently being reviewed with the Government.
28.    Subproject sustainability. The Trabajar program financed approximately 17,000
projects in 18 months. Given the extraordinarily high number of projects funded in such a short
period (an absolute necessity, given the objective of the program), the Bank and the PIU took
several measures to promote the quality of subprojects financed by the program. A civil
engineer evaluated a sample of subprojects financed under the first phase of Trabajar. This
evaluation revealed that while the overall quality of subprojects was adequate, there was neither
sufficient supervision nor ex-ante site visits to projects, which resulted in financing some
inappropriate and substandard projects. The Bank loan therefore financed the hiring of
additional evaluators (generally civil engineers or architects). It was also agreed that evaluators
would make ex-ante site visits to at least 30 percent of proposed project sites, and that
supervisors would visit projects a minimum of two to three times, depending on the size of the
project, during construction.
29.    The ex-post evaluation of subprojects under the second phase of the Trabajar program,
undertaken one year later, revealed that these preventive mechanisms had helped improve the
suitability of approved subprojects. It also revealed, however, that while the subprojects
financed were better matched to community needs, subproject quality had remained at about the
same level. The principle reasons that subproject quality had not improved were: (i) the high
number of proposals received that prevented evaluators from making a sufficient number of ex-
ante visits to project sites; (ii) lack of training in certain areas, such as environmental impact, of
evaluators and supervisors; and (iii) in the case of water and sanitation projects, lack of
comprehensive and integrated system plans.
7 Some mayors expressed the view that the number of projects that could be financed under a program like Trabajar was finite;
eventually they would run out of these types of projects. This experience does not seem to be generalized so far given the
fact that the demand for sub-project financing continues to exceed the available budget under the Third Social Protection
Project. Some mayors were also concerned that if the program continued for a longer period of time, they would be seen as
the employer of last resort.
11



30.   The Bank and the PIU therefore worked together to revise evaluation and supervision
guidelines, so that evaluators were now required to carefully choose the projects they visited
based on technical, financial, and environmental considerations. The final supervision mission
found subprojects to be of adequate quality, although further requirements to improve the quality
of water and sanitation projects were suggested by Bank technical staff. Improvements in
project evaluation and supervision were also incorporated into the follow-up project, Social
Protection III.
VI.   Bank performance
31.   The Bank team's assistance in the preparation, appraisal, and supervision of this project
was satisfactory. In interviews, the Borrower indicated that they felt that the Bank staff and
themselves were working together as a single team. They valued the expertise and technical
assistance offered by the Bank, and viewed it as an integral factor in the success of the project.
32.   The project was prepared in a short time, but even so, was well thought-out and designed.
One of the most important contributions by the Bank team was the economic assessment of the
program, distinguishing between the direct benefits (net income gain to poor workers) and
indirect benefits (mainly the value of assets to communities) and the validation of the
appropriateness of the wage ceiling the Government had set in the first phase of Trabajar, $200 a
month.8 In addition, during project preparation agreement was reached on the design and
implementation of the impact evaluation. The impact evaluation study supported by the project
is considered, within the Bank, as an example of best practice of how a rigorous evaluation can
form part of project design from the beginning and provide feedback in a timely fashion. The
Bank took the lead in the technical analysis, but Government counterparts (the Secretaria de
Desarrollo Social (SDS), as well as the PIU) took part in data preparation and analysis, thereby
introducing them to a new methodology for impact evaluation.
33.   Supervision missions were scheduled every four to six months to ensure that the targeting
was on track and that subproject quality was adequate. As a result of supervision missions,
changes were made in the Trabajar program in progress. For example, evaluators were provided
more training in conducting environmental assessment of project proposals, since the supervision
mission revealed weaknesses in this part of project evaluation. Also, additional publicity
materials were published to further reach the poor and involve those who had never participated
in the program, and discussions were held with provinces whose targeting was poor. The follow-
up actions taken as a result of the supervision missions helped to improve the performance of the
Trabajar program.
VII. Borrower performance
34.   As indicated in Table 1 of the statistical annex, Borrower performance was highly
satisfactory at all stages of the project. The PIU in the Ministry of Labor was dedicated and
capable. With a relatively small number of staff, it carried out numerous technical assistance
8 For more details on the economic assessment see Ravallion, "Appraising Workfare Program", Policy Research Working Paper
#1955, August 1998.
12



activities for executing organizations, including municipalities and NGOs, and provincial offices.
The quality and amount of the supporting materials produced by the PIU, including publicity
materials, operational manuals, etc., was also high. The extent of communication and support
given to the provincial offices appeared to be sufficient. The staff monitored the project
carefully using a variety of indicators in order to re-evaluate the effectiveness of the program, to
identify problems and to take corrective action where necessary. The PIU staff was also
receptive to Bank advice and suggestions. For example, environmental evaluation had not been
incorporated under the previous public works program. The PIU closely followed Bank advice
on the design of this evaluation process, and took the initiative to make changes in the system
during implementation. They were keen to hear the Bank's evaluation of the system's
performance during supervision missions, and anxious to improve its effectiveness. Though
environmental assessment was undertaken because of the Bank's requirement, the PIU viewed it
as an opportunity to train staff in a relatively unfamiliar area and to improve subproject quality.
35.   The PIU also responded quickly and effectively to unexpected problems, such as the
initial delays in the processing and delivery of payments to participating workers and problems
in proposal processing in some areas, and coped initially with a sharp rise in demand for
subprojects. The contribution of the PIU and the provincial offices was instrumental in ensuring
that the survey of Trabajar beneficiaries was carried out, and this in turn was crucial for the
timely impact evaluation of the program. The PIU was quick to follow-up on recommendations
made in supervision missions, and to identify problems and seek the Bank's assistance in
resolving them.
VIII. Assessment of Outcome
36.   Social Protection II's outcome is judged satisfactory. As described in the preceding
sections, the project's modest development objective - to reduce the impact of unemployment on
poor households in Argentina - was achieved. Most targets set for the project were met or
exceeded, and project management was very competent. The funds were disbursed on time,
responding to a very large demand and the scaling up of the program to meet social needs.
Targeting of benefits to the poor was excellent, and through continuous learning during the
implementation period, a number of enhancements and refinements to the program's design were
made. Moreover, as part of this learning process, the program became increasingly sensitive to
the issues of gender and environmental impacts. Nevertheless, it cannot be claimed that the
project had a major development impact, to warrant a highly satisfactory rating of project
outcomes, because the project provided only temporary relief and did not help to improve the
potential of the economy to generate jobs in the future.
IX.   Current and Future Operation
37.   The Bank approved a follow-up loan to finance the third phase of Trabajar, which
proved both beneficial and timely as the country entered into a second deep economic recession
in late 1998, (brought on by the Asian and Russian crises), just after recovering from the
recession caused by the Tequila crisis. The design of the third phase of Trabajar has been
modified based on the experience of the second phase, and improvements in several areas are
beginning to be seen, including better project completion rate and higher participation of women.
The prospect of the program's sustainability, as long as it continues to be needed, is good. The
Government has the mechanisms in place to start up this program quickly and efficiently, and the
13



existing program has shown that subproject quality, if these mechanisms are followed, can be
adequate to good, and the targeting excellent.
X.   Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future Operations
38.   The key lessons learned and reconimendations are as follows:
*  Self-targeted public works programs can effectively direct the majority of cash transfers
to the poor, provided the wage rate is set no higher than the ruling market wage for
unskilled labor. Setting the wage rate at this level also minimizes perverse incentives by
ensuring that the program does not attract employed individuals.
*  Close monitoring is needed during project execution to ensure that the targeting is
working and to identify problems in the project cycle or poor performance in some
localities.
*  While the labor requirement and low wage rate effectively target benefits to the poor,
proactive measures such as program promotion and technical assistance directed to less
well endowed municipalities and NGOs are necessary to ensure that the poor in these
communities benefit from the national program. Lack of resources to finance materials
proved a stumbling block to coverage in some poor municipalities, which is why, under
Social Protection III, some materials for the poorest communities are being financed.
*  The cost-effectiveness of workfare programs like Trabajar depends in large part on the
value of the assets created through the subprojects. Effective subproject evaluation,
monitoring and supervision are critical to ensuring that the subprojects produce benefits
for poor communities that go beyond temporary income transfers to unemployed
members. With respect to evaluation, visiting the site of the proposed subproject prior to
the approval decision is an important instrument to ensure that subprojects are
appropriate and of high quality. After project approval, effective supervision monitoring
-including periodic on-site visits-is essential to ensure the high quality of works and
their timely completion.
*  Demand-driven programs like Trabajar present specific management challenges, in that
it can be difficult to predict and manage the inflow of subproject proposals.
Unexpectedly high numbers of incoming subproject proposals in a given month can strain
the capacity of regional and provincial staff to process them with adequate attention to
the ex-ante evaluation (for example, site visits). Similarly, it can divert staff attention
from promotion and technical assistance activities.
14



PART II.  STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement o Objectives
Macro Policie                       O                0             0               0
SectorPolicies                       0               O             0               0
Financial Objectives                0               53            0                0
InstitutionalDevelopment             0               0             0               0
Physical Objectives                  0               E0            0               0
Poverty Reduction                   El      0                      0               0
Gender Issues                       0               0                              03
Other Social Objectives             0                0             0               0
Environmental Objectives             0               0             0               0
Public Sector Management            03               0             b               0
Private Sector Development          0                0             0               0
Other (spec,if)                     0               0             0                0
Likely           Unlikely                    Uncertain
B. Proiect Sustainabilit                0 
17~~~~1 0
C. Bank Perfo,mance                Highly
Satisfactorv     Satisfactory                   Deficient
Identfrcation                       0                0                            0
Preparation Assistance              0                0                            0
Appraisal                           0                0                            0- 
Supervision                         0                0                            0
D. Borrower Performance
Satisfactory      Satisfactory                 Deficient
Preparation                         0                Ol                           O
Implementation                      0                 0                           0
Covenant Compliance                 0                0                            0
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactorv     Satisfactorg   Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfactorv
0    0                        0 1
1 5



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loant/crei!it title          Purpose              Year qf ppro val    Status
Preceding prain
1. Loan 3957-AR         Social Protection I Project       1995          Closed
2. Loan 3643-AR      Matemal Child Health & Nutrition     1993        In operation
3. Loan 4002/3 -AR       Health Insurance Reform          1996          Closed
4. Loan 4004-AR         Health Insurance Technical        1996        In operation
Assistance
5. Loan 3860-AR       Second Municipal Development        1995        In operation
Project
6. Loan 3877-AR          First Provincial Reform          1995          Closed
Following operations
1. Loan 4164-AR       Second Maternal & Child Health      1997        In operation
2. Loan 4218 Rio Negro  Second Provincial Reform          1997        In operation
Loan 4219 Salta
Loan 4220 San Juan
Loan 4221 Tucaumn
3. Loan 4366-AR       Third Social Protection Project     1998        In operation
4. Loan 4398-AR       Fourth Social Protection Project    1998        In operation
16



Table 3: Project Timetable
Identifwation (Executive Project Sunmary)    November 1996      November 1996
Preparation                 December 1996         December 1996
Appraisal                    March 1997            March 1997
Negotiations                  March 1997             April 1997
Board Presentation                June 1997             June 1997
Signing                      July 1997             July 1997
Effectiveness                   July 1997          September 1997
Midterm reviw (if applicable)        February 1998         February 1998
Project Completion              December 1998         December 1998
Loan Closing                    June 1999            June 1999
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate                    100.0                  200.0
Actual                           168.9                  200.0
Actual as % of Estimate                 169%                   100%
Date of Final Disbursement: January 2000
17



Table 5: Monitoring Indicators
Target     Actual    TarKget   .4ctua       Target      Acttal
Time Period      1997-June-              1997-98               1998-99
Nov.                June/May              June/June
No. of workers      80,000     239,653   250,000   298,421         ---
entering program
% of Projects        70          70        77         72          ---
Completed on Time
Payments to          40         166        140       282         220         384
Beneficiaries (US$)
Table 6: Studies Completed
StUldv       Iniliail Stated Purpose        Status              Outcome
Ex-post evaluation of  To ascertain quality of  Completed      Recommendations made
subprojects financed   subprojects financed (now               and implemented to
under TRIA14JAR     with Bank's involvement)                  improve evaluation and
program              and identify areas for                    supervision of subprojects.
improvement
Special survey of    To determine the program's   Completed    Adequacy of the targeting
program participants  success in targeting poor                mechanism, and the
and associated       individuals and to estimate               appropriateness of the wage
analysis            the net income gains from                  level were both
participating in the program.             demonstrated. Average net
income is about half the
wage rate.
Monitoring Poor Area  To develop and implement a  Completed    The method was
Targeting           sound method for rapid                    implemented from an early
assessment of provincial                  stage within the project
performance in reaching poor              office in the MTSS, and re-
areas                                     done every 6 months, thus
providing rapid feedback on
this aspect of performance
to the center and provinces.
18



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
3.03(a)     05                 C                              Prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan for the future operation of the Project.
3.03(b)     05                 C                              The Borrower shall... .afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said [future operations
of the Project] plan.
3.04(b)     05                 C                              The Borrower shall maintain throughout the execution of the Project a Project Management Unit.
3.05        10                 C                              The Borrowver shall ensure that the wage rates applicable to the services of temporary and fixed term workers under Part A of the
Project shall not exceed Arg$200 pesos per month.
3.06(a)(1)   09                C                              The Borrower shall... .approve subprojects estimated to cost $350,000 or less and maintain until at least one year after the Closing
Date the relevant documentation for the Bank's ex-post revievv.
3.06(a)(ii)  09                CD                             The Borrower shall... forvard to the Bank the relevant documentation for all subprojects estimated to cost more than $350,000
equivalent after said subprojects have been approved by the Project Unit.
3.07(b)     09                 C                              The Borrower shall... .by February 15 and August 15 of each year of Project execution, furnish a semi-annual progress report...to
include the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities perfonned pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.
3.07(a)     09                 C                              The Borrowrer shall .. maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objective.
3.07(c)     09                 C                              The Borrower shall ... include in the progress report to be furnished by February 15, 1998, a report on the progrss achieved in the
carrying out of the Project since its beginning and setting out measures to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and
achievement of its objective.
3.07(d)     10                 C                              The Borrower shall. .. review with the Bank, by March 15, 1998 ... the progress report and take all measures required to ensure the
efflicient completion of the Project and thc achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Bank's viewvs on the matter.
4.01(a)     01                 c                              The Borrower shall maintain .., records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof
4.S01(19()   01                 C                             The Borrower shall have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors amceptable to the Bank.
4.01(b)(ii)   0 1              CD                             The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than six months after the end of each year, the report of such audit by said
auditors.
4,01 (bXiii)  01               CD                             The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank such other informiation concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
4.01 (c) (i)   01              C                              For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained... .records and accounts reflecting such expenditures.
4.07(c) (ii)  01               C                              The Borrower shall retain.. until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
19



withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, all records evidencing such expenditures.
4.07(c)(iii)  01               C                              The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine suchi records (evidcncing expenditures made on the basis of
statenments of expenditures).
4,07(c)f()  01                 c                              The Borrower shall ensure that such records ...are included in the ainual audit referred to in paragraph 9b) of this Section and
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and interal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
Schedule4, 10                  C                              Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Section 1,                                                    Bank for its review and approval... .Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
PasrfD                                                        shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph I.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                               6   Environmental covenants
2. =  Rnancialperformance/revenue generationfrom     7  - Involuntary resettlenent
benefidartes                                 8&= Indigenouspeople
3. =  Flow and utiizaton ofprojectfwnus              9.  Manitoring, review, and reporting
4. =  Counterparlfunifing                          10. = Projeditiletentaton not covered by categories 1-9
5. =  Management asects of the project or executing  fi.- Setoral or cross-setoral budgetay or other resource allocation
agenc                                        12r = Sectorator cross-sedora pollcq/regulatoryAnstitulionatcadion
13. = Other
Table 8A: Project Costs
vppraivi Exlinutlze (USS.31)                                               A4t.ttal/LatctS lEtintote (JASS1J)
Local             Foreign                 Total                       Local                      Foreign                Total
Item                 Costs               Costs                                             Costs                       Costs
1, Subprojects             1,000                178                  1,178                       1,035                        183                  1218'
2. Project                   20                  2                     22                         18.0                         .2                   18.2
Administration
TOTAL                  1,020                180                 1,200                        1,053                       183.2                1236.2
I Estimates made at appraisal used an average labor share in total project cost of 33%. Analysis carried out during project implementation indicated that the labor share was at least 40 percent.
20



Table 8B: Project Financing
Local        Foreign     Total         Local        Foreign     Total
Source                   Costs        Costs                     Costs         Costs
IBRDIIDA                    198            2         200          199.8           .2        200
Cofinancing Institution     100                      100            0             0          0
Domestic Contribution       622           178         800          796          140.2       941
(Government of
Argentina)
Other (PFrivate)            100                       100          100                      100
TOTAL                      1,020          180        1,200       1,075.8        140.4     1236.2
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual)
wkvt
Preparation          20.0          90.4
Appraisal            7.4          43.3
Negotiations          3.7           13.1
Supervision            .3            .4            15.1          55.3            5.4         7.1
completion                                                                      10.1        18.4
TOTAL              31.4         147.2           15i1           55.3           15.5       25,5
21



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Sffq'ie of  .lmzlkl/   N'vumhler   Pars   Specializ ed .tff     Perjfi)rmance Rating     Tipe of
Project C(cle   Yea-        of       in    SHi/tv Repre.vtred                             Problemns
Personvs  Fieltd
Implementation   Development
Status       Objective
Identiflcation/    11/96     6        36     TM, TE, LE, CE
Preparation     1/97        3        3
Appraisal      3/97        5        42     TM, LE, CE, ES
Supervision 1   11/97        7       64      TM, LE, CE, ES,        S              S
Ss
Supervision 2    2/98        5       37      TM, LE, ES, SS         S              S
Supervision 3    5198        5       35      TM, LE, CE, ES         S              S
Key:
TM = Task Manager                   CE = Civil Engineer
TE = Training Expert                ES = Environmental Specialist
LE = Labor Economist                 SS = Social Scientist
22



Table 11: Type of Subprojects Approved
Basic sanitation                                                                3,646
Social infrastructure                                                           4,528
Housing-gas networks-electricatiwan                                             1,768
Economic infrastructure                                                         5,357
Community services and other                                                    1,363
Total                                                                         16,662
Drainage and sewers                                                             2,231
Educational infrastructure                                                      1,155
Community/cultural infrastructure                                               1,374
Low-cost housing                                                                1,480
Secondary roads                                                                 1,796
Vialidad urbana                                                                2,063
Subtotal of six most common types of                                           10,099
projects
Total of Projects                           16,662
Typos of sub-proj.ot.
Community SOrnice.
other
8%                  Basic
Sanitaton
,-            ~~~~22%
Economic                     _      _
Intrastructure
32%
\      Soc~~~~~~~oial
\       _      ~~~~~~~infrastructure
Housiog-gos                27%
E ic0triftiction
11%
Sub-project sponsors
Ncngcnmoientol  24     Procinc4.i oovemnnnt
oroarurarnc_              13%b
18%
/           _
Mcnlipai go-emneht
237
23



Table 12: Targeting Performance by Province under the Trabajar Program
Targetinkg Difftrential (S/perso.n)
Province                            Trabajar II         Trabajar I   Improvement-
1997-1998          1996-1997    Trabajar I to
Trabajar 11
Buenos Aires                            -26.0              -4.4             No
Catamarca                              76.2*               33.8            Yes+
Chaco                                   40.3               27.9             Yes
Chubut                                  96.8               -8.5             Yes
Cordoba                                399.7*              76.3*           Yes+
Corrientes                             72.2*                -3.0           Yes+
Entre Rios                              56.6               19.2*            Yes
Formosa                                 33.1               16.5*            Yes
Jujuy                                  154.4*              93.6*           Yes+
La Pampa                               39.3*               -9.2*           Yes+
La Rioja                                13.6                -3.4            Yes
Mendoza                                111.9*              49.2*           Yes+
Misiones                                -31.5               0.7             No
Neuquen                                 -3.0                2.2             No
Rio Negro                              188.4*               24.3           Yes+
Salta                                  210.4*              105.6*          Yes+
San Juan                               200.7*              90.8*           Yes+
San Luis                               112.8*              88.8*           Yes+
Santa Cruz                              24.3               -115.3           Yes
Santa Fe                               102.3*              16.9*           Yes+
Santiago del Estero                     85.5*               10.7           Yes+
Tucuman                                198.0*              26.9            Yes+
AU Departments                         109.7*              41.0*           Yes+
Note: The targeting differential is the estimated difference between the program spending on families
with unmet basic needs and those whose basic needs have been met. This is estimated by the
regression coefficient of Trabajar spending per capita on the incidence of unmet basic needs per capita,
across all departments in each province. So it can be interpreted as a measure of how well the program
is reaching poor areas within provinces. A * indicates that the targeting differential is significantly
different from zero at the 5% level; '"es" indicates that the targeting differential was greater under
Trabajar 2; "yes+" indicates that (in addition) the targeting differential is significantly positive under
Trabajar 2
24



Table 13: Beneficiary profile by Gender
Federal capital         65.5                    34.5
Partidos del           69.2                    30.8
Conurbano
Buenos Aires           80.7                     19.3
Catamarca             93.0                     7.0
Chaco               86.7                     13.3
Chubut               84.6                    15.4
Cordoba              87.7                     12.3
Corrientes            77.9                    22.1
Entre Rios            95.0                     5.0
Formosa               81.4                    18.6
Jujuy               83.0                    17.0
LaPampa               92.3                     7.7
LaRioja              84.5                     15.5
Mendoza               84.0                    16.0
Misiones              74.8                    25.2
Neuquen               65.0                    35.0
Rio Negro             77.4                    22.6
Salta               85.6                    14.4
San Juan              89.2                    10.8
San Luis              85.9                    14.1
Santa Cruz            70.2                     29.8
Santa Fe              82.3                    17.7
Rosario              67.9                    32.1
Santiago del           80.0                    20.0
Estero
Tierra del Fuego         57.2                    42.8
Tucuman               85.2                    14.8
Total               83.1                    16.9
25



Table 14: Program coverage of the target population by month
WNumber ojf prticipai.fs dIiiided by estinated
n timber of wmunnployed poor
Date                      Number
May-97                        1.3
Jun-97                        4.4
Jul-97                        7.7
Aug-97                        10.3
Sep-97                       13.2
Oct-97                        14
Nov-97                        12.8
Dec-97                       11.6
Feb-98                        7.8
Mar-98                        7.4
Apr-98                        5.9
May-98                        6.4
Jun-98                        7.3
Jul-98                        6.6
26



SECOND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT (LOAN 41950-AR)
ARGENTINA
APPENDIX: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION
1.    Marco General de acci6n de la Secretaria de Empleo y Capacitaci6n Laboral del
MTSS
Durante los ufltimos afios, en el marco de un profundo proceso de reestructuraci6n econ6mica, se
ha registrado en la Argentina una tendencia creciente en los niveles de desempleo urbano y rural.
Esta situaci6n de desempleo trajo como consecuencia la caida del ingreso en los hogares,
afectando en particular a aquellos mas pobres.
El incremento de la desocupaci6n ha adquirido el caracter de problema nacional, lo cual ha
Ilevado a definir politicas emergentes para atender la coyuntura. Los indicadores de
desocupaci6n registran una tendencia creciente en la liltima decada. Esta situaci6n promovi6 la
necesidad de generar politicas focalizadas para atender a los sectores mas vulnerables, tanto por
su situaci6n de pobreza como por sus calificaciones y posibilidades de acceso al mercado
laboral. En tal sentido, las politicas socio-laborales se incorporan a las politicas sociales
nacionales como parte de los programas focalizados que atienden, a trav6s de acciones de
capacitaci6n y fomento del empleo, a los trabajadores desocupados en situaci6n de pobreza.
Estimaci6n de Poblaci6n Total, Econ6micamente Activa y Desocupada
Total Urbano
(en miles de personas)
*7777  7;0;00 f Poblac0X0iP6n Total000   !tS P.E.A.0 <DesocadosU;0
2.PERiODO 
Mayo 1995            30.438              12.477              2.170
Octubre 1995          30.692              12.307              1.959
Mayo 1996            31.049              12.387              2.044
Octubre 1996          31.308              12.589              2.047
POLiTICAS DE EMPLEO Y CAPACITACION LABORAL DEL MTSS
A mediados de los afios 70' a nivel mundial, y en la Argentina en fecha mucho mas reciente,
empez6 a hacerse evidente que dos elementos que parecian indisolublemente vinculados - el
empleo y el crecimiento econ6mico - comenzaban a tomar distancia. En efecto, despues de la
27



crisis de los paises mas desarrollados, al recuperar la actividad econ6mica sus ritmos anteriores y
al estabilizarse un cierto equilibrio de crecimiento, se observ6 que la recuperaci6n de la actividad
econ6mica no habia redundado en la misma proporci6n en la creaci6n de puestos de trabajo.
Para tratar de contrarrestar estos efectos, en muchos paises se inici6 el desarrollo de politicas de
empleo, un conjunto de acciones destinadas, en algunos casos, a potenciar el impacto sobre el
empleo de las politicas de crecimiento econ6mico y, en otros casos, a atenuar el impacto
negativo que las politicas de crecimiento econ6mico tenian sobre el empleo.
En la Republica Argentina, a partir de la sanci6n de la Ley Nacional de Empleo (N 24.013), que
incluye un diagn6stico del mercado de trabajo, un conjunto de acciones o programas que dan
respuesta a ese diagn6stico y un financiamiento que preve la fuente de recursos para Ilevar a
cabo esas acciones (Fondo Nacional de Empleo). El Ministerio de Trabajo y Seguridad Social
comienza a desarrollar Programas de Empleo orientados a fomentar oportunidades de empleo
para los grupos con mayores dificultades en el ingreso y permanencia en el mercado de trabajo y
reducir el impacto de la caida del nivel de ingresos por perdida del empleo.
Desde el afno 1993 se Ilevan a cabo Programas de Empleo directo, que operan a traves del
financiamiento de mano de obra para el desarrollo de obras de infraestructura econ6mica y
actividades de interes comunitario. Estdn destinados a aquellos trabajadores con mayores
dificultades laborales y sociales. Su objetivo es brindar ocupaci6n transitoria a trabajadores
desocupados.
El primer antecedente de estos programas fue el Programa Intensivo de Trabajo (PIT), con una
cobertura de casi 70.000 beneficiarios/as anuales.
Los programas de empleo directo han evolucionado como resultado de las sucesivas
evaluaciones de resultados; mejorando sus criterios de focalizaci6n y cobertura, atendiendo a los
sectores mas pobres y menos calificados de la fuerza de trabajo en situaci6n de desempleo.
Se han profundizado los objetivos de estos programas, superando la transitoriedad del impacto en
tanto empleo temporario, dando prioridad a los proyectos de obras y servicios que promueven.
Se define en su implementaci6n de manera prioritaria la atenci6n de la pobreza, en particular en
las areas urbanas. La atiende desde una doble dimensi6n: mejorando el ingreso de los hogares
mas pobres y generando infraestructura social, comunitario y de desarrollo con alto impacto en
las condiciones de vida de mismo grupo de poblaci6n objetivo.
Otra preocupaci6n que estuvo presente fue como asegurar que los beneficios Ilegaran a las areas
mas pobres asi como asegurar el impacto de los proyectos en las areas con altos porcentaje de
poblaci6n con necesidades basicas insatisfechas.
A traves de estos programas se concretan pequenios proyectos de inversi6n social para la
construcci6n de obras de infraestructura comunitaria y el desarrollo de servicios de interes social
destinados a las poblaciones y grupos mas vulnerables.
28



2.    Convenio de Prestamo N 4195/ARG
El Programa TRABAJAR II
El Programa TRABAJAR II creado por el Ministerio de Trabajo y Seguridad Social mediante la
Resoluci6n M.T. y S.S. N 240/97 y reglamentado por la Resoluci6n S.E. C.L. N 202/97, forma
parte de las politicas activas de empleo, en particular los programas de empleo directo.
El Programa TRABAJAR II se orienta a atender las situaciones de emergencia ocupacional
provocadas por los desajustes de los mercados de trabajo que surgen como resultado de las
transformaciones productivas en curso; brinda ocupaci6n transitoria a trabajadores/as
desocupados/as que no perciben prestaciones por desempleo ni participan de otros programas de
empleo o capacitaci6n laboral. Dicho programa contribuye a disminuir el impacto provocado
por la caida de los ingresos que afectan a los sectores mas vulnerables de la poblaci6n, como
consecuencia de la perdida del empleo.
Los recursos del Programa TRABAJAR II se asignaron teniendo en cuenta la distribuci6n
porcentual de la poblaci6n beneficiaria - trabaj adores desocupados en situaci6n de pobreza- por
jurisdicci6n:
Provincia              Pbblaci6n Objetivo
BuenosAires               430355          30,11
Capital Federal            26 714          1,87
Catamarca                  19 615          1,37
Chaco                      71 991          5,04
Chubut                     12 533          0,88
C6rdoba                    90 683          6,35
Corrientes                 48 418          3,39
Entre Rios                 51 203          3,58
Formosa                    37 864          2,65
Jujuy                      32 481          2,27
LaPampa                    10 619          0,74
La Rioja                   11 242          0,79
Mendoza                    51 315          3,59
Misiones                   60 777          4,25
Neuqu6n                    23 926           1,67
Rio Negro                  27 154           1,90
Salta                      72 315          5,06
San Juan                   24 755          1,73
San Luis                   14 937          1,05
Santa Cruz                  2 969          0,21
Santa Fe                  163 923         11,47
Santiago del Estero        59 126          4,14
Tierra del Fuego            2 813          0,20
Tucuman                    81 334          5,69
29



TOTAL                  1429061            100
Fuente: Direcci6n Nacional de Politicas de Empleo y Capacitaci6n - MTSS
OBJETIVOS DEL PROGRAMA
El Programa constituye un instrumento de financiamiento de mano de obra para la realizaci6n de
proyectos comunitarios que desarrollen obras de infraestructura social y econ6mica orientadas a
satisfacer necesidades socialmente relevantes de la poblaci6n con menores recursos. Para la
realizaci6n de dichas obras se promueve la articulaci6n de demandas y proyectos con otros
programas globales o sectoriales; con el objetivo de complementar las politicas de emergencia
de empleo con otras lineas de programas sociales que financian asistencia tecnica y/o insumos
para realizar obras de infraestructura.
Los proyectos aprobados en el marco de este Programa tienen como objetivos:
1.   Incorporar trabajadores/as desocupados/as con baja calificaci6n que residan en la
localidad de ejecuci6n de la obra, promoviendo la realizaci6n de actividades mano de obra
intensivas.
2.    Dar respuesta a las demandas prioritarias de la poblaci6n de localidades y barrios en
situaci6n de pobreza, con el fin de mejorar sus condiciones de vida a traves de la generaci6n de
infraestructura social.
3.    Promover la articulaci6n con otros programas integrales (Programas Sociales Nacionales
y/o Provinciales) de superaci6n de la pobreza a nivel local.
4.    Apoyar iniciativas comunitarias a traves del cofmanciamiento de obras (financiamiento
de mano de obra) que tiendan a majorar las condiciones de vida de la poblaci6n en situaci6n de
pobreza.
El Programa promueve la participaci6n de instancias organizativas de caracter reginal o local
(organizaciones de la sociedad civil). La presencia y el compromiso de este tip organizaciones
intermedias con reconocimiento en la localidad asegura un importante nivel de control social y,
simultaneamente, aporta competencias para la definici6n de proyectos emergentes del
diagn6stico de las necesidades sociales prioritarias.
RESULTADOS DEL PROGRAMA
Durante el desarrollo del Programa se incorporaron 400.189 beneficiarios que se desempefiaron
en 16.782 proyectos de construcci6n, ampliaci6n y rehabilitaci6n de infraestructura social
comunitaria, destinada a poblaciones de bajos recursos.
Para la ejecuci6n de estos proyectos se comprometieron $ 383.646.040 destinados al pago de las
ayudas econ6micas no remunerativas mensuales a los beneficiarios del Programa.
30



El monto a cargo del Programa promedio por proyecto fule $ 22.861, la cantidad de beneficiarios
promedio por proyecto fue 24 y la duraci6n promedio de los proyectos financiados fue de 4.8
meses.
Programa TRABAJAR II: Total de proyectos, beneficiarios y monto a cargo del
programa, por gerencia.
fid0Gerxencia            Proyecto      & heflcdari    lGuto a/cProg.;0700500 T
CAPITAL FEDERAL                       1 69               3.044              2.795320
PARtIDOS  iEL CON4RBoANO               2                10.738              10.833.800
BUENOS AIRES                        1.665               34.670             35.327.000
CATAMARCA                             279                6.452              6.507.800
CH4ACO                                733               25.959             27.043.380
CBUBUT                                372                5.977               5.392.360
CORDOBA                             1.483               28.381             28.528.720
CORRIENTES                            861               19.503              17.794.540
ENTRE R1OS                           750               15.728             16487.700
FORMOSA                               338                9.810             10.354.00
JUJJUY                                801               18.968              17.342.240
LAPAMPA                               315                5.389               5.439.600
LA RIOJA                              199                5.203              5.503.920
MIENDOZA                              760               l5.O270             14.674.010
MISIONES                              893               18.268             18.620.800
NEUQUEN                               617               15.639              12.342.210
RIO NEGRO                             603               12.028              10.833.500
SALTA                                 523               19.7 10            20.022.Q
SAN JUAN                              413                9.081              8.455.240
SAN LUIS                              336                5.809              6.398.000
SANTA CRUZ                            138                2.717 7            2.245.400
SANTAFE                             1.121               25.07              27121.650
ROSARIO                             1.073               21.696             21.555.620
SANTIAGO DEL ESTERO                   625               25.950             20.681.010
TIERRA DEL FUEGO                       87                1.241               1.074.800
TUCUMAN                             1.206               38.A4              29.230.420
TOTAL                              16.782              400.189            383.646.040
El logro mas importante del Programa fue Ilegar a los hogares mas pobres, mejorando sus
ingresos.
Se realiz6 un estudio para medir el impacto del Prograrna Trabajar en los ingresos de los
hogares, asf como profundizar en el conocimiento de las caracteristicas de los beneficiarios y sus
hogares.9
9A traves de la Secretaria de Desarrollo social, que realiza la "Encuesta de Desarrollo Social: Condiciones de vida y acceso a
programas y servicios sociales" el Banco Mundial le solicit6 al Sistema de Evaluaci6n y Monitoreo de Programas Sociales
(SIEMPRO oraganismos dependiente de la Secretaria de Desarrollo Social y ejecutor junto al Instituto Nacional de
Estadisticas y Censos INDEC - MEOySP) la realizaci6n de un estudio por muestra especial para beneficiarios del
Programa Trabajar II en todo el pais.
31



Los principales resultados de esta investigaci6n son:
* Entre el 75 y 85% de los beneficiarios del Programa pertenecen al decil mas pobre de la
poblaci6n, es decir que el TRABAJAR II supera a otros Programas nacionales e
intemacionales, en llegar a los desocupados mas pobres.
*  La focalizaci6n del Programa TRABAJAR II hacia las areas con poblaci6n con mayor
porcentaje de NBI mejor6 respecto de la del TRABAJAR I.  Las provincias donde mejor
pudo observarse este impacto fueron C6rdoba, Salta, San Luis, Tucuman y Rio Negro.
* El perfil de los beneficiarios coincide con el de la poblaci6n objetivo del Programa,
observandose una alta participaci6n masculina (85% del total de los beneficiarios).
* El costo de oportunidad para los beneficiarios: un beneficiario del Programa mejora su
ingreso en aproximadamente $103 y practicamente en $200 para el 10% mas pobre, respecto
de la situci6n de un desocupado.
Otro de los logros del TRABAJAR II se bas6 en la introducci6n de una cultura de proyectos de
inversi6n que permiti6 canalizar los recursos a obras de utilidad pAblica. Dichos proyectos se
orientaron a atender las necesidades locales. Si bien en general, la calidad de los proyectos no
alcanz6 los parametros establecidos por el Programa, se puede afirmar que hubo un avance
importante en el financiamiento de proyectos mas pertinentes en terminos de utilidad social.
Este esfuerzo por mejorar la asignaci6n de recursos en obras de interes comunitario esta tomando
cada vez mas importancia en los diferentes sectores puiblicos locales y regionales.
En este sentido, para le meta relacionada con la finalizaci6n de proyectos, los indicadores de
monitoreo presentan un cumplimiento de obras finalizadas cercano al 70%, siendo las provincias
que tienen mayor cumplimiento en la ejecuci6n C6rdoba, Santa Fe, Entre Rios, y Chubut. En'el
lado opuesto se encuentran Neuquen, La Rioja y Tucuman, que presentan menores niveles de
cumplimiento.
32



Programa TRABAJAR II: Cumplimiento de metas. Total pais.
Proyectos finalizados al 31 de octubre 1998.
CAPITAL FEDERAL                     69.9                30.1                  146
CONURBANO                           63.1                36.9                  360
CHACO                               64.4                35.6                  612
CHUBUT                              76.4                23.6                  330
ENTRE RIOS                          77.8                24.2                  653
FORMOSA                             64.1                359301
LA RIOJA                            56.0                44.0                  166
MENDOZA                             71.1                28.9                  570
NEI.JQUEN       49.8                 50.2                ~~~~~~~~~~~548
RIO NEGRO                           67.9                32.1                 498
SALTA                               56.0                44.0                  470
SAN MUN                             U74A56                                     3
SA  LUS                            62ti@l.5.            3.5j                 301 
SANTA CRUZ                          70.1                29.9                  127
SANTA FE                            79.2                20.8                  881
ROSA12O7.7.                                                                  4
'500; DE'L$'i ESER                  7a02.9              27.1i0 5800u20t;
TIERRA DEL FUEGO                    86.3                13.8                   80
TUCUMAN                             57.6                42.4                1.152
Diferencias entre los resultados planificados y los obtenidos
En t6rminos generales el Programa TRABAJAR II no ha tenido grandes problemas en funci6n de
los resultados planificados. Sin embargo, a lo largo de su desarrollo y dado que el Programa
ejecut6 en un periodo breve gran cantidad de fondos, se observ6 que:
No se cont6 con el tiempo suficiente para desarrollar e implementar tal como se habian
concebido, los distintos procesos del Programa. Esto afect6 en particular a las etapas de
Evaluaci6n t6cnica y Seguimiento, que se incorporaron como dos procesos totalmente novedosos
en los programas de empleo del Ministerio de Trabajo. Si bien pudieron fortalecerse a traves de
acciones de capacitaci6n y asistencia tecnica, estos no tuvieron el tiempo de maduraci6n
necesario, ya que se desarrollaron paralelamente con el lanzamiento del programa.
33



La coyuntura socio laboral exigi6 una rapida respuesta del Programa, lo cual, si bien no se
contituy6 en un obstaculo, modific6 el impacto esperado fundamentalmente en algunas
localidades, donde tuvieron lugar graves conflictos socio-laborales tras el cierre de importantes
fuentes de trabajo (Cutral-Co, Zapala Y Plaza Huincul en la Pcia. de Neuquen; Tartagal, San
Pedro y Ledesma en la Pcia. de Jujuy, Cruz del Eje en la Pcia. de C6rdoba). En estas localidades
so aprob6 una importante cantidad de proyectos que tuvieron como objetivo atender a la
coyuntura emergente, pasando a segundo plano la calidad de la ejecuci6n y afectandose la
distribuci6n de los recursos en las respectivas provincias.
Por otra parte, se observaron dificultades en el cunplimiento de los compromisos asumidos por
parte de los organismos responsables para le ejecuci6n de las obras. Las prinicpales causas de
estos problemas radicaron en la falta de disponibilidad de recursos de la contraparte para la
ejecuci6n de las obras y falta de apoyo a la gesti6n de los organismos responsables. Por otra
parte, aun en algunos proyectos finalizados, se observ6 que las obras no pudieron ser utilizadas
por falta de recursos para la prestaci6n del servicio.
Lecciones aprendidas del Programa
Disefio: De acuerdo a lo analizado, el impacto alcanzado por el Programa cumpli6 con los
objetivos trazados en el disefno del mismo. El TRABAJAR II ocup6 a mas de 400.000
beneficiarios y contribuy6 a mejorar el ingreso de los sectores mas pobres de la poblaci6n. A
traves de la ejecuci6n de casi 17.000 proyectos se construy6 y mejor6 infraestructura para los
sectores con mayores carencias econ6micas.
Uno de los objetivos contemplados en el disenio fue la mejora de la empleabilidad de los
trabajadores que participaron en la ejecuci6n de los proyectos. Este objetivo no tuvo el exito
esperado ya que, por una parte, uno de los factores que apuntalarian la posibilidad de mejorar las
condiciones de acceso al mercado de trabajo era la capacitaci6n a los beneficiarios, componente
no obligatorio en el Programa. Pero, sin dudas, las condiciones del mercado laboral argentino-
baja oferta y demanda de perfiles especializados- constituyen el principal obstaculo para acceder
a un puesto de trabajo.
Asimismo, se advierte que en el Programa deber disefiarse mecanismos que favorezcan el
desarrollo de aptitudes para la reinserci6n laboral de los beneficiarios, y promover de esta
manera, la rotaci6n de los trabajadores en el Programa.
Los cambios introducidos respecto del TRABAJAR I en relaci6n al disefio de las propuestas a
financiar, la creaci6n y fortalecimiento de areas de asistencia tecnica, evaluaci6n tecnica,
monitoreo y seguimiento de proyectos, dieron como resultado no s6lo una mejora en la cantidad
y calidad de informaci6n del Programa, sino que tambien mostraron evidentes cambios positivos
en favor de la pertinencia y calidad de proyectos ejecutados.
34



Sin embargo, en algunos casos la capacidad institucional de los organismos ejecutores de
proyectos no result6 adecuada para la gesti6n de las propuestas aprobadas, fundamentalmente
por la falta de adecuados recursos humanos capacitados para Ilevar a cabo la coordinaci6n
t6cnica de las obras.
Otro de los cambios respecto del TRABAJAR I fue la definici6n de la poblaci6n objetivo directa.
En este, era requisito que al menos el 50% de los beneficiarios de un proyecto fueran jefes de
hogar. El TRABAJAR II elimin6 esta restricci6n, observandose que el Programa tiende a
autofocalizarse, incorporando a los proyectos trabajadores desocupados pertenecientes a los
sectores de la poblaci6n con mayor porcentaje de necesidades basicas insatisfechas.
Los criterios de priorizaci6n incorporados al Programa permitieron favorecer a los proyectos
desarrollados en las localidades con mayores indices de pobreza y privilegiar el desarrollo de
infraestructura social basica. Estos criterios se relacionan con: la localizaci6n del proyecto
seguin nivel de pobreza, la utilidad social de las obras, los proyectos que tengan un mayor
impacto en el uso de mano de obra y que se articulan con otros Programas Sociales. Asimismo,
se incluye por primera vez en un programa de empleo la ponderaci6n de criterios en funci6n de
prioridades sociales y de emergencia ocupacional a cargo de los actores locales.
- Ejecuci6n: El crecimiento del Programa durante 1997, que implic6 alcanzar tres veces la
cantidad de beneficiarios en relaci6n a la ejecuci6n del periodo anterior, produjo un fuerte
impacto en especial en los procesos de validaci6n, liquidaci6n y pago de beneficiarios. Esto
puso en evidencia las debilidades del circuito de informaci6n y del sistema de procesamiento de
la misma: graves problemas de carga de beneficiarios, transporte de informaci6n a traves de
disquete, demoras en el proceso de la informaci6n, problemas operativos.
Con el objetivo de solucionar estos problemas, se implementaron las siguientes acciones desde la
Secretaria de Empleo y Capacitaci6n Laboral:
Creaci6n de una Comisi6n Tecnica integrada por representantes de distintas areas de la Anses y
del MTSS, con funciones de contralor en el procesamiento de datos y facultades para resolver
temas especificos. Uno de los principales logros de esta Comisi6n fue la elaboraci6n de la
Resoluci6n que establece circuitos, funciones, responsabilidades y tareas de los distintos actores
en el proceso de liquidaci6n y pago a beneficiarios.
Creaci6n dentro del ambito de la SECL de la Coordinaci6n Tecnica y de Planeamiento, con la
funci6n de coordinar los procesos informaticas vinculados con el circuito de pagos a
beneficiarios de Programas de Empleo y Capacitaci6n y validar los cambios en los sistemas
informaticos.
Las mejoras alcanzadas han permitido, entre otras cosas disminuir los problemas de carga de
beneficiarios, mejorar sensiblemente la transferencia de informaci6n, mejorar el proceso de
validaci6n de beneficiarios.
La terciarizaci6n (outsourcing) del servicio de pago de ayudas econ6micas a beneficiarios del
Programa TRABAJAR condicion6 al management de la Unidad Ejecutora Central a definir,
35



incluir, instrumentar y asumir una Estrategia- Estructura destinada a preservar el ejercicio de
mando, dominio, control y mantenimiento en caja, de esa faceta de la administraci6n financiera
del Proyecto.
Es por ello, que la construcci6n e implementaci6n de un Sistema de Control Intemo, la reacci6n
oportuna que el equipo de tareas (Task Force) de la Unidad se manifest6 a traves de su
comportamiento administrativo de formas distintas, en sintonia con las circunstancias vigentes
con el Programa.
3.    Misiones de evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial al Programa TRABAJAR II
El Banco Mundial ha desarrollado visitas de supervisi6n y seguimiento del Convenio de
Prestamo N 4195 ARG, que se ejecut6 en el periodo 1997- 1998. Las principales
preocupaciones del Banco Mundial se centraron en: la focalizaci6n de los beneficiarios, la
calidad de los proyectos y la gesti6n del Programa a nivel regional.
Se realizaron tres visitas de supervisi6n y una uiltima visita de evaluaci6n del Programa.
La primer visita fue realizada entre los dias 3 y 14 de noviembre de 1997. En esta oportunidad la
misi6n observ6 que:
* La focalizaci6n del TRABAJAR II mejor6 respecto del TRABAJAR I
- Aument6 de la participaci6n de ONG's como organismos ejecutores, pero que era baja
participaci6n de mujeres como beneficiarias directas de los proyectos
Asimismo recomend6:
*  Mejorar el sistema de selecci6n y pago de beneficiarios
*  Brindar capacitaci6n a los recursos humanos del Programa (fundalmentalmente supervisores
y evaluadores tecnicos)
La segunda visita se realiz6 entre el 9 y el 20 de febrero de 1998. El informe de esta misi6n
destac6 el trabajo realizado por la UNEC para lograr el fortalecimiento del Programa en todo su
ciclo operativo, y mostr6 inquietud por la cantidad de proyectos no finalizados. Asimismo,
esboz6 algunas ideas para el redisefio del Programa, entre ellas, actualizar la informaci6n para
realizar la asignaci6n de recursos por provincia y realizar ajustes en la evaluaci6n para mejorar la
selecci6n de proyectos de importante impacto social. Asimiso recomend6 instrumentar acciones
para mejorar el circuito de pagos a beneficiarios.
La tercera visita fue realizada entre el 27 de abril y el 8 de mayo de 1998. En esta oportunidad la
misi6n evalu6 satisfactoriamente los documentos elaborados por la UNEC para la operaci6n del
programa y se acord6 el financiamiento para materiales de proyectos de localidades muy pobres.
Por otro lado se observ6 que algunas provincias au6n no mostraban una adecuada focalizaci6n,
aunque destac6 que, de acuerdo a los resultados de la encuesta realizada a beneficiarios, la
focalizaci6n del Programa es muy favorable respecto de la experiencia intemacional.
La misi6n de terminaci6n del Programa TRABAJAR II se realiz6 entre los dias 9 y 20 de
noviembre de 1998. Esta evaluaci6n final sefial6 que el TRABAJAR 11 super6 las metas
36



programadas, cumpliendo ampliamente con el objetivo de aliviar la pobreza al crear cerca de
400.000 puestos transitorios que dieron empleo a trabajadores pertenecientes a los sectores mas
pobres de la poblaci6n (el 60% de los beneficiarios pertenecen al 10% mas pobre).
Asimismo, en relaci6n a la observaci6n realizada en misiones anteriores en tomo a la
finalizaci6n de proyectos, los indicadores de monitoreo mostraron que casi el 70% de los
proyectos habian finalizado satisfactoriamente.
El desempefno del Banco Mundial en sus misiones de evaluaci6n fue altamente satisfactorio en
todos los niveles del ciclo operativo del Progama: evaluaci6n, supervisi6n, seguimiento y
monitoreo, y sus recomendaciones han contribuido a mejorar el alcance de los objetivos.
Esta Unidad evalua que seria muy importante que el Banco suministre lineas de acci6n y disefie
mecanismos de supervisi6n para implementar actividades de asistencia tecnica, que si bien han
tenido un fuerte desarrollo, requieren de nuevas metodologias para aplicar en el trabajo con los
organismos responsables del Programa.
4. Conclusiones
El Programa TRABAJAR II, durante el periodo de ejecuci6n 1997- 1998 ha logrado:
*  Contribuir al alivio de la pobreza dando apoyo a proyectos de construcci6n, ampliaci6n y
refacci6n de infraestructura social, brindando empleo transitorio a casi 400.000 personas.
* Desarrollar un sistema de gesti6n y financiamiento de proyectos que permite brindar una
respuesta dinamica a la demanda de proyectos que satisfacen necesidades de poblaciones con
alto porcentaje de NBI.
*  Beneficiar no s6lo con una ayuda econ6mica mensual a personas desocupadas sino brindar la
posibilidad de participar en obras que contribuyen a mejorar las condiciones de vida del lugar
que habitan.
37



IBRD 29348
-20'         7                                                                                                                                         20' 
BOLIVIA   (
\   PARAGUAY
,&  \ian Salvador                                                               B  R  A   Z   I L
( ~~~~~duu /1- A, ,                                                   1,,
-    _ S     A  T _ .Formosah
> C  '~>-  Bucum6n          CHACC) 0
TUCWl1SAN-HA.Gd              Resistencia4    .._ Posads \c\KJc,.
0 Santiago  el Estero          C orrientes  '*
LLL                              E *   ESTERO             i   y0 /V
-J I 1  L. Riof             '     -,
A          \  -  R                         Uo 'A  ,',*   SANTA
-30             _       S AN                                      F    E .     E                                                                        30-
. J U A N                    i6rdoa  I'Santo
(     San Ju;,n                        Fe EL/Pran6
*             N            CORDOBAW  NR  
CNEARE~
Mendoza\       Son  i              '         R!OS           
\  San                    /         t            s f URUGUAY.
j *             t>     ,        S   -/                gBuenos Aires
IV, ~       * E,_D        
Santa Rosa            BUENOS
A i R ES
PA M PA
{NEUQUEWN  L,
Neuque&7'
*      .'        R !C O
-40O                   ,           N E: G RO       ViedmaX                                                                                              40
K   NEGRO  VIedma~                                                 ARGENTINA
.Rawson
CH J4BUJT
CHUB UTs                                                                   PROVINCE CAPITALS
.J6    NATIONAL CAPITAL
_-                                                      ---PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
;)  ---   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SA N TA
( CRUZ-
-50'                                                                                                                                                    50'-
5Rio Gallegos                                                    0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
;- ~~~f~~'_ ~I                                                   I      I       I     I
.- .   - -   1                                               0       100     200     300      400 Miles
. shja \rThis mop was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
,          TEu RAia                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and anyother information shown
- -    -   TIERRA                     on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
DEL FUEGO                                judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
70'                                                    60'                                                      50'
APRIL 1998



