Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4195-AR
Loan Agreement
(Second Social Protection Project - TRABAJAR)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 7, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4195-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1997, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) 
at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
than an 
amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project's costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Page  2
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled."
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Arg.$" means the currency of the Borrower;
(b)
"Directorate of Employment and Training Policies" means the Dirección 
Nacional de Políticas de Empleo y Capacitación of the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor (as 
defined hereinafter);
(c) 
"Ministry of Labor" means the Borrower’s Ministerio de Trabajo y 
Seguridad Social;
(d)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the progress and performance indicators set 
forth in the letter of even date with this Agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank; 
(e) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual for the operation of Part A of the 
Project provided to the Bank by the Borrower under cover of its letter dated May 12, 
1997 and accepted by the Bank pursuant to its letter dated May 27, 1997;
(f)
"Project Management Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 3.04(b) 
of this Agreement;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
"Subprojects" means employment programs eligible for financing under the 
TRABAJAR Program (as defined hereinafter) in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual and approved for inclusion in the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement; and
(i) 
"TRABAJAR Program" means the Borrower’s program called "TRABAJAR II" 
established by Ministerial Resolution M.T.S.S. No. 240/97 dated April 16, 1997.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000).
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
Page  3
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:  (A) one 
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and 
September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and environmental practices and, with respect to Part A of 
the Project, the provisions of the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as 
Page  4
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for Part B of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)
procurement of the services of temporary and fixed term workers under 
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of the Operational Manual.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall provide overall management of the Project through the Directorate of Employment 
and Training Policies.
(b)
For the purpose of assisting the Directorate of Employment and Training 
Policies in the overall management of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain 
throughout the execution of the Project within said Directorate a Project management 
unit with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with 
managers with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the wage rates applicable to the 
services of temporary and fixed term workers under Part A of the Project shall not 
exceed Arg.$ 200 per month.
Section 3.06. (a)  The Borrower shall, through the Directorate of Employment and 
Training Policies, in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual:
(i)
approve Subprojects estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or less 
and maintain until at least one year after the Closing Date the 
relevant documentation for the Bank’s ex-post review; and
(ii)
forward to the Bank for its approval the relevant documentation 
for all Subprojects estimated to cost more than $350,000 
equivalent after said Subprojects have been approved by the 
Project Management Unit.
(b)
For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the relevant 
documentation shall include:
(i)
an appraisal of the Subproject and the environmental screening or 
assessment (including the mitigation plan if indicated by such 
screening or assessment) of the Subproject;
(ii)
a detailed description of how such Subproject meets the criteria 
and requirements set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(iii)
such other information as the Bank may reasonably request in 
respect of such Subproject. 
Section 3.07.  The Borrower, through the Project Management Unit, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objective;
(b)
by February 15 and August 15 of each year of Project execution, furnish 
to the Bank a semi-annual progress report on the execution of the Project, said 
reports to be of such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested and 
to include the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
Page  5
to paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c)
include in the progress report to be furnished to the Bank by February 
15, 1998 pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, a report on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project since its beginning and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
its objective;
(d)
review with the Bank, by March 15, 1998, or such later date as the Bank 
may request, the progress report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project  of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Operational Manual shall 
Page  6
have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of 
the Bank, materially and adversely the efficient execution of Part A of the Project.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to 
permit that the procurement of goods and services to be financed with Loan proceeds be 
undertaken in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02.  The date October 8, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios
Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI); or
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
   Amount of the
  Loan Allocated
     % of
  (Expressed in 
 Expenditures
Category
     Dollars)  
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under
1,000,000
100% of foreign
Part B of the
expenditures
Project
and 50% of
local
expenditures
(2)
Services:
(a) Remuneration for 
     192,000,000
70%
    temporary and 
    fixed term workers
    under Part A of
    the Project
(b) Consultants’ 
7,000,000
 100%
    services under 
           Part B of the
    Project
TOTAL
     200,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "remuneration for temporary and fixed term workers" means 
remuneration for temporary and fixed term employment provided, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual, under the TRABAJAR Program, subject to the 
limitation set forth in Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding [$40,000,000] may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior 
to the date of this Agreement but after March 31, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for:
(a)
remuneration for temporary and fixed term workers under Part A of the 
Project;
Page  8
(b)
goods costing $300,000 equivalent or less per contract except for the 
first two contracts to be procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and
(d)
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to reduce poverty by providing temporary income 
support to poor, unemployed workers. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
TRABAJAR Program
Execution of Subprojects.
Part B:
Project Management
Strengthening the capacity of the Directorate of Employment and Training 
Policies to carry out the TRABAJAR Program and to manage and monitor the Project 
through the provision of specialized technical assistance and staff and the 
acquisition and use of appropriate office equipment and communications services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2003
through September, 15, 2012
10,000,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  9
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost more than $300,000 equivalent each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part C.1, standard 
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to:  (a) each contract procured under Part B of this Section; 
and (b) the first two contracts or bid packages for goods procured under Part C.1 of 
this Section.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  10
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part B of the Project may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services  under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part B of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent  per contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $25,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  11
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) 
Page  12
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
