Report No. 1483-ME
Mexico Appraisal of the Baja California
Tourism Project
April 18, 1977
Tourism Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      Peso (Mex$)
US$1               =     Mex$19.9  I/
Mex$1.0                  US$0.050
Mex$l million      =     US$50,251
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter                        =     3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)            =     10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)             =     35.29 cubic feet
1 kilogram (kg)                =     2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)             =     2,205 pounds
1 hectare (ha)                 =     2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                     0.62 miles
1 liter per second (1/sec)    =      22,800 US gallons per day
1 cubic meter per day (m3/d)         264 US gallons per day
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASK            -    Airports and Auxiliary Services Agency
MFE           -    Federal Electricity Commission
CORETT        -    Land Regularization Committee
DGCA          -    Directorate General of Civil Aeronautics
FONATUR       -    National Fund for Tourism Development
FOVI           -    Fund for Operating and Banking Discounts
for Housing
Hacienda       -   Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
IDB           -    Inter-American Development Bank
124SS         -    Mexican Institute for Social Security
INFONAVIT     -    Housing Development Agency
NACOA         -    National Company of Aviation Combustibles
NAFINSA        -    National Financing Agency
Patrimonio    -   Ministry of the National Patrimony and
Industrial Development
P y B         -   Ministry of Programming and Budgeting
RAMSA         -    Aeronautical Radio Company of Mexico
SAHOP         -    Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works
SARH          -    Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
SCT           -   Ministry of Communications and Transportation
TELMEX        -    Telecommunications Corporation of Mexico
Turismo       -   Ministry of Tourism
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/ The exchange rate was US$1 = Mex$12.5 until August 31, 1976.
The appraisal mission used US$1 = Mex$19.9 to convert base line costs.
The peso is now floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS   ......          .......................    i-iii
I.     INTRODUCTION          ...............................1 
II.     THE TOURISM SECTOR ..2................................                   2
III.     THE PROJECT  .........................................
A.    Project Background and Objectives  ..............                  5
B.   Project Description  ............................                   9
C.   Cost Estimates  .......O-*..................... 0 ... . .. .........  12
D.   Execution and Operation ............ .. ...........                12
E.   Financing Plan and Lending Arrangements  ....... .                 16
F.   Procurement and Disbursement  ........ .......... .                16
IV.     JUSTIFICATION   .......................  .............
A.   Market Demand  .. ................................                 17
B.    Development of Tourism Facilities   ..           ............     21
C.   Financial Aspects  ..... ...... .  ................. .             23
D.    Economic Justification  .....          ....................       25
E.    Social Aspects  ............         ..................0          30
V.     RECCMMENDATIONS   ........... ..  ......................    ......... .  31
This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of Messrs.
I.A. Menezes, R. Bentjerodt, E. Echeverria, T. Iizuka, P. Murgatroyd
and Ms. J. de Regt. While in the field, the mission received assistance
from Messrs. L. Vera (tourism), E. Maisch (water supply), R. Overby
(environment), and W.B.R. Zetterstrom (aviation).
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents   (Continued)
Annex No.
I.    Project Cost Estimates
II.    Project Description
III.    Aeronautical Aspects
IV.    Water Supply and Sewerage
V.    The Tourism Sector
VI.    FONATUR
VII.    Market Demand
VIII.    Development of Accommodation Facilities
IX.    Financial Forecasts on Estate Operations
X.    Economic Justification
XI.    Social Aspects
XII.    Environmental Aspects
Chart
1.    Schedule of Implementation
IBRD No. 12647 - Mexico: Project Locations
IBRD No. 12650 - San Jose del Cabo Area Plan
IBRD No. 12651 - San Jose del Cabo Land Use Plan
IBRD No. 12648 - Loreto Area Plan
IBRD No. 12649 - Loreto Land Use Plan



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.       This report appraises a project to provide facilities for tour-
ism and urban development at Loreto and San Jose del Cabo in Mexico's
southern state of Baja California. Tourism infrastructure to be provid-
ed includes streets, water, sewerage and drainage systems, and the
improvement and expansion of airports, electric power, and telecommuni-
cations. Investments in the urban areas are intended to improve and
expand the infrastructure in the existing towns and provide such facili-
ties as health clinics, parks, marketplaces, and schools. The project
also includes recreational facilities, some office and community build-
ings, funds for restoration of old buildings, investment promotion,
nature conservation, community development activities, and studies.
The two sites will in the first stage, covering a period of eight to nine
years, comprise hotels with 2,100 rooms, apartels (apartment hotels) with
4,050 rooms, and 960 condominium units and tourist villas. Accommodation
included in the project consists of one hotel of 250 rooms at each site.
ii.      The project is the third major tourism development being under-
taken by the Federal Government. In 1972 the Bank made a loan of US$22
million equivalent to help finance the provision of infrastructure for
a tourist resort in Ixtapa, near Zihuatanejo, on Mexico's Pacific coast.
This project is now nearing completion with all of the loan expected to
be disbursed by June 30, 1977. The Inter-American Development Bank has
made loans totaling US$41.5 million for a similar project at Cancun, on
the coast of Yucatan.
iii.     Mexico is one of the world's major and most richly endowed tour-
ist destinations. Its formidable assets have attracted an increasing flow
of visitors which numbered 3.2 million persons in 1975. This represented
a slight drop, compared to 1974, in visitor traffic, which has despite
its size been growing steadily at an average rate of 10% a year over the
last 15 years. Foreign exchange earnings from tourism grew at an annual
rate of 11.5% between 1960 and 1975, and amounted to US$800 million in
1975 or more than 13% of exports of goods and nonfactor services. Tour-
ism is now Mexico's largest single source of foreign exchange earnings.
iv.      For the period 1961-1976 accommodation capacity more than dou-
bled while visitor arrivals increased by 300%. The fastest increase in
capacity has been in hotel rooms of international standard, which con-
tinue to enjoy relatively high occupancy rates. Further additions to
capacity will be required in order to tap the potential market for Mexico.
The costs of correcting the infrastructure and other inadequacies in
existing destinations such as Acapulco to allow for such expansion, how-



ever, would be enormous. Further development of the new resorts of Cancun
and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo, which could be done at relatively low cost, will
not be sufficient. Assuming improved promotion and better utilization of
existing capacity, particularly during the off-season, Mexico in the next
four years would need some 25,000 hotel rooms of international standard
to maintain an average annual growth rate of 9% in visitor arrivals.
Given these circumstances, the Mexican authorities have rightly consider-
ed the need to encourage tourism development in new areas while develop-
ing plans for improvement and expansion at existing destinations,
v.       Tourism has been singled out by the Government of Mexico as the
most promising sector to bring about social and economic development in
Baja California. Its proximity to the western part of the United States,
its natural attractions (beaches, sea, climate), and fishing potential
provide Baja California with unique assets and an opportunity to tap one
of the largest and richest tourist generating regions in the United States.
Recognizing this potential and in light of the Government's national poli-
cy to diversify geographically Mexico's tourism facilities and its region-
al policy to promote Baja California through the establishment of strate-
gically located tourism development poles, a total of six areas were se-
lected after extensive studies. In 1975 the Government decided to pro-
ceed initially with the provision of tourism and other facilities at two
of these sites: Loreto, located on the Sea of Cortez, 360 km north of
La Paz, the state capital; and San Jose del Cabo, on the southern tip of
the peninsula, 200 km south of La Paz.
vi.      While the principal investments will be in infrastructure for the
tourism zones and the airport, the Government would like to repeat in Baja
California the successful urban development of the town of Zihuatanejo
stimulated by the Bank's first tourism project. Accordingly, the proposed
project includes significant investments in the towns of Loreto and San
Jose del Cabo, designed not only to improve the quality of life of exist-
ing and future inhabitants of the towns but particularly to tackle the
problems of the poorest sections of the population with sites and services,
and guided self-help programs.
vii.     Although strong interest in the proposed developments has been ex-
pressed by potential investors, no binding commitments have yet been made.
Hotel investors are reluctant to be first in a new destination and general-
ly tend to wait until the tourism infrastructure is in place before invest-
ing, which may be at least a year later than desirable from a financial and
economic point of view. Moreover these first investments in superstructure
facilities are crucial in setting the architectural tone, and demonstrating
proper environmental standards for the resort. Accordingly, provision is
made in the project for the construction of a first hotel of 250 rooms of
medium category.
viii.    The project is estimated to cost US$84 million, including contin-
gencies. The proposed Bank loan of US$42 million would cover the foreign
exchange component of the project. The Federal Government would provide
the balance of the funds required to finance the project as well as any
cost overruns.



- iii -
ix.      Major civil works and equipment contracts would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. Project items have been group-
ed into packages in order to encourage such competitive bidding, but the
bidder would also be able to bid on individual items. Some contracts, how-
ever, would be too small to attract foreign bids and it is proposed that
they be awarded on the basis of locally advertised bids. The total value
of such contracts is estimated not to exceed US$4 million equivalent. Be-
cause of the need for standardization, navigational equipment for the air-
ports (costing US$0.7 million) would be negotiated directly with the com-
pany supplying such equipment to Mexico. In evaluating international bids
for equipment and furniture, local manufacturers would be allowed a prefer-
ential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the pre-
vailing level of customs duties, whichever is lower.
x.       Basic responsibility for executing the proposed project would rest
with FONATUR (Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo) with the exception of
electric power, telecommunications, and the airports, which would be carried
out by other government agencies. FONATUR is a government agency charged
with planning and promotion of integrated resort developments, including fi-
nancing of needed infrastructure investments, hotels, and other tourism
superstructure. FONATUR is well managed and fully qualified to execute, op-
erate, and maintain the components of the project for which it is responsi-
ble. FONATUR would contract with the Federal Power Commission (CFE) and the
Telecommunications Corporation (TELMEX) to design and construct the electric
power and telecommunications networks. Responsibility for design and con-
struction of the airport facilities would lie with the Ministry of Human
Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP). All these agencies have considerable
experience and the competence to execute their respective components.
xi.      The economic rate of return on investments in Loreto would be 19%
and in San Jose del Cabo 21%. When implemented, the project would directly
employ 12,000 persons in hotel and other tourism facilities. Employment
generated in construction, transportation, handicrafts, and other services
would account for an estimated 13,000 additional jobs. Unskilled labor would
fill more than 60% of the jobs created, and almost 40% of the jobs could be
filled by women. Net foreign exchange earnings generated by the project are
expected to be US$19 million in 1985 and US$89 million a year from 1990 on-
wards.
xii.     As presently designed, no significant external environmental or
social problem will result from the developments; rather than impoverishing
the physical and social environment, the project will induce changes to
the contrary.
xiii.    The project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$42 million
equivalent for a term of 17 years, including a grace period of 3-1/2 years.






MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     In 1968 the Government of Mexico indicated an interest in obtain-
ing assistance from the Bank for financing new tourism infrastructure. In
1972 the Bank made a loan of US$22 million equivalent to help finance the
provision of infrastructure for a tourist resort in Ixtapa, near Zihuata-
nejo, on Mexico's Pacific coast. After encountering some delays due large-
ly to land acquisition problems, the project is now nearing completion with
the loan expected to be disbursed by June 30, 1977, with the exception of
some funds allocated to a small hotel school (US$900,000) which has not yet
been implemented because of jurisdictional problems (para. 2.12). In the
tourist zone of Ixtapa, two hotels are open for business (534 rooms) and
several others are under construction. By June 1977 over 1,500 rooms are
expected to be available. The airport financed under the project is serv-
ing both Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo and the rapidly expanding industrial town of
Lazaro Cardenas, an hour's drive from the airport.
1.02     In 1974, in continuance of its policy of geographic diversifica-
tion of Mexico's tourism facilities, the Government, after extensive stud-
ies financed with local funds, requested that the Bank consider several
sites for development along the Baja California peninsula. Subsequently,
in the course of project identification and preparation missions in 1975
and 1976, agreement was reached to focus attention on two sites: Loreto,
located on the Sea of Cortez, 360 km north of La Paz, the capital of the
state of Baja California South; and San Jose del Cabo on the southern tip
of the peninsula, 200 km south of La Paz.
1.03     The project consists of infrastructure and related facilities re-
quired for development of the two sites, which in the first stage will
comprise hotels with 2,100 rooms, apartels with 4,050 rooms, and 960 con-
dominium units and tourist villas. The financing of a first hotel at
each site is included in the project. In addition, the Government would
like to repeat in Baja California its successful efforts in urban develop-
ment of the town of Zihuatanejo, and has hence included infrastructure and
other investments in the project that would provide a significant improve-
ment in facilities and services for the residents of the towns of Loreto
and San Jose del Cabo.
1.04     Due to its complexity and the difficult land tenure and water sup-
ply problems in Baja California, the preparation of the project has re-
quired about two years. These problems were solved and the studies com-
pleted in time for an appraisal mission to visit Mexico in October 1976.
The mission included Messrs. Menezes, Bentjerodt, Echeverria, Iizuka,
Murgatroyd, and Ms. de Regt. While in the field, the mission received
assistance from Messrs. Vera, Maisch, Overby and Zetterstrom. A further
visit was made by Messrs. Menezes and Vera in February 1977, for discus-
sions of certain project issues with the new Government.



- 2 -
II. THE TOURISM SECTOR
2.01     Mexico is one of the world's major and most richly endowed tour-
ist destinations. Its attractions include the architectural remains of a
series of major civilizations, entertainment that ranges from traditional
to modern, a wealth of contemporary creative arts, shopping opportunities,
an agreable climate, excellent beaches along the Pacific and Caribbean
sea coasts, and street scenes that reflect the varied cultural background
of Mexico's multiracial populace. In addition, Mexico is an accessible
and truly foreign destination for the United States and Canada, which make
up one of the world's largest source of foreign tourists.
2.02     These assets have attracted an increasing flow of visitors in the
past and constitute an important pot ntial for the future. In 1975, over
3.2 million persons visited Mexico.17 This represented a slight drop com-
pared to 1974 in visitor traffic. Historically, visitor arrivals grew at
a rate of 13.9% annually between 1961 and 1965, 10.1% between 1965 and
1970, and 6.7% between 1971 and 1975; an average of 10.4% from 1961 to
1975 (Annex V). Growing prosperity in the US and Canada, the provision of
direct air access, and rapid expansion in accommodation and infrastructure
combined to make this growth possible. The declining growth rate in the
70s is mainly attributable to the economic recessions in the US and to
Mexico's uncompetitive position resulting from an overvalued peso.
2.03     Nearly 90% of visitors to Mexico are from the US and access from
the US is excellent by every transport mode. In the past, a majority of
foreign visitors traveled to Mexico by road, the bulk from the border
states of Texas, California, Arizona and New Mexico. The pattern has now
changed with air transportation becoming the dominant mode of access, as
more distant destinations are opened up and the cost of air travel de-
clines (Annex V).
2.04     Foreign visitors to the interior of Mexico (i.e., beyond the bor-
der zone) have in the past often visited more than one destination within
the country and almost always included Mexico City in their itineraries.
This pattern is also changing with a growing number of tourists visiting
a single destination only, generally a beach based resort. An analysis of
income levels of visitors indicates that Mexico seems to be geared toward
a more diversified market and is attracting more lower- and middle-income
visitors than the Caribbean, with which it is in competition. It has still
to tap the full potential represented by this market, however (Annex VII).
2.05     An important phenomenon in Mexico in recent years has been the
burgeoning domestic tourist market. It is estimated that Mexicans account-
ed for 14.8 million visits in 1975, or a total of 28.4 million visitor
nights. A growing number of Mexicans are also buying second homes,
1/ These visitors tour the interior of the country and are to be
distinguished from the Mexican/US border traffic, estimated
at more than 70 million in 1975.



apartels, or condominiums, particularly along the coasts.
2.06     Because climatic conditions make Mexico an all-year-round resort
area, visitor flows to Mexico show only a minor degree of seasonality.
As a result, tourist facilities generally experience relatively high occu-
pancies, much above those prevailing in many other tourist areas.
2.07     With high occupancies making investment in new capacity attrac-
tive, hotel and other accommodation capacity more than doubled, from
91,000 rooms in 1961 to 191,000 rooms in 1975, while visitor arrivals in-
creased by 300%. The fastest increase in capacity has been in hotel rooms
of international standard, which, in spite of the slowdown in the growth
of visitors in 1974 and 1975, have continued to enjoy high occupancy rates.
2.08     Studies show that Mexico in the next four years will need some
25,000 additional hotel rooms of international standard to accommodate
projected visitor growth rates of 9% per year. The appropriate strategy
will include:
(a)   improved promotional efforts aimed at segments of
the market which would result in even more visitors
during the off-season, resulting in improved uti-
lization of existing capacity (and yielding high
returns);
(b)   expanding existing resorts, where new infrastructure
requirements would be relatively inexpensive; and
(c)   encouraging development at new sites which might,
through the diversification of attractions, en-
able Mexico to tap new markets.
With respect to promotional efforts, studies are required and both techni-
cal and financial assistance have been requested from the Bank (para. 4.26).
With regard to existing areas, further expansion of accommodation at new
resorts such as Cancun and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo would be possible at rela-
tively small cost. The costs of improving infrastructure and correcting
other inadequacies in established sites such as Acapulco, however, would
be enormous. While the Government proposes to continue encouraging the
expansion of Cancun and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo, as well as established resort
areas, it has also rightly considered the need to encourage development
at other sites to be able to tap fully the potential market of Mexico.
2.09     Until the 70s, government institutions concerned with tourism had
little impact on the sector's development. Public sector expenditures for
tourism development had been modest, and no coherent set of fiscal, credit
or other specific sector policies had been instituted to stimulate the
growth of the industry. Nevertheless, the private sector responded vigor-
ously to the rapid growth in demand, with little or no government assist-
ance except for uncoordinated efforts by federal, state, and municipal
agencies to provide infrastructure facilities. Such private development
tended, however, in the absence of well conceived government policies, to
stress short-term profitability with little regard to the longer run impact
of their activities on the social situation, the economy and the environment.



2.10     In response to these deficiencies and recognizing the importance
of the sector, the Government created a special fund (INFRATUR) in the
Banco de Mexico in 1969, to plan and promote integrated resort develop-
ments, including financing of needed infrastructure investments. Because
ofa growing scarcity of loan capital, the Government had a few years ear-
lier established a trust fund (FOGATUR) in NAFINSA for the purpose of fi-
nancing hotels and other tourism superstructure. In 1974, these two
funds were merged. The new fund, called Fondo Nacional de Fomento al
Turismo (FONATUR) integrates most activities of the public sector in the
tourism field and strengthens the Government's hand in controlling the
quality and pace of development of the sector (Annex VI).
2.11     FONATUR has mainly concentrated its development efforts in two
sites: Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast and Cancun on the Caribbean
coast, These projects, financed in part by the Bank and the IDB respec-
tively, are nearing completion. To date FONATTJR has invested Mex$l.l
billion to develop infrastructure in Cancun and Mex$0.7 billion in Ixtapa-
Zihuatanejo. FONATUR has already earned a significant surplus in cash
flow terms on its land development operations at Cancun and Ixtapa-Zihua-
tanejo, amounting to Mex$37 million in 1973 and Mex$240 million in 1976.
In addition, over 4,000 hotel and other rooms are expected to be available
in the two sites this year. The volume of FONATUR's hotel credit opera-
tions has expanded much faster than its investments in infrastructure de-
velopment. As of August 31, 1976, FONATUR had approved 378 credit appli-
cations for a total of Mex$2.8 billion to finance 19,000 new rooms
throughout the country.
2.12     Serious attention is being given to employment in the sector,
especially since tourism has become instrumental in creating a more bal-
anced regional distribution of economic activities in Mexico. Recent
studies estimate that direct employment in tourist activities amounts to
between 300,000 and 400,000 persons. Significantly, most of those em-
ployed are drawn from the unskilled sector of the population and they have
obtained relatively well paid jobs after little investment in training.
Even a modest increase in training would improve the professional compe-
tence of personnel. Existing training institutions concentrate on train-
ing for higher management and supervisory levels, when the most pressing
need is for trained staff at the lower and intermediate levels. Moreover,
local unions have traditionally attempted to control these institutions
further complicating the situation. There is also no clear delegation of
responsibility for hotel and tourism training to a single organization ca-
pable of drawing up the necessary programs and implementing them. The new
administration is pledged to revamping all vocational training with a view
to improving the situation.
2.13     While views about the efficacy of Mexico's air access policies
differ, it is clear that efforts to protect interests both in Mexico and
the US have hindered the growth of tourism, particularly to new destina-
tions. No bilateral agreement with the US (which generates nearly 90% of
the visitors to Mexico) has been signed in the last six years, and even
some of those airports currently in the agreement are not all being served
by US carriers. Fortunately, charter traffic has provided some relief to
the tourist industry. Bilateral negotiations with the US are scheduled for
mid-1977 when the relevant issues are expected to be reviewed.



-5-
2.14     Current terms of lending for hotels in Mexico are from 10-15 years,
2-3 years grace, with 10% to 15% interest, and are attractive but less
generous than in many other tourist receiving countries.
2.15     With relatively moderate investment costs and high occupancies,
Mexican hotels in general are profitable. Hotel tariffs are controlled
by the Government and increases are permitted only about every four years;
however, hoteliers have in practice some flexibility in the rates they
charge. Net profits may not be high, but other aspects of hotel invest-
ments are attractive, such as long-term capital gains, and high cash flow
generation. With the expected upsurge in visitor traffic resulting from
the devaluation of the peso, hotels in Mexico should in principle be
further able to increase occupancies and profitability, but much would de-
pend upon what happens to local costs and prices.
2.16     Average tourist expenditures in Mexico are high (about US$24 a
day) with even higher averages (US$38 a day) for visitors arriving by air.
In 1975, Mexico's gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism amounted
to US$800 million, excluding visitor transportation and border traffic
earnings, and represented more than 13% of total exports of goods and non-
factor services. The growth rate averaged 11.5% a year between 1960 and
1975 as compared to a growth rate of 10.7% annually in earnings from ex-
ports of goods and services. In the period 1970-1975, tourism earnings in-
creased at a rate of 14% a year, despite a slowing down in the growth of
visitor arrivals.
2.17     Handicrafts play an important role in distributing the benefits
of tourism, particularly affecting the incomes of the very poor. In 1975,
it is estimated that sales of handicrafts totaled Mex$1.6 billion. This
revenue directly affected the lives and incomes of at least 5 million
Mexicans.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background and Objectives
3.01     Baja California, the 1,300 km long rocky, desert peninsula
stretching southward from the US border along Mexico's west coast, has
been recently selected by the Government of Mexico for development that
would also aim at preserving the delicate environment surrounding vast
open spaces and kilometers of coastline that hold promise of providing
sizeable tourist revenues. On the east side of the peninsula is the
Sea of Cortez (Gulf of California); on the west, the Pacific Ocean. The
climate is pleasantly dry, the vegetation is typical of desert lands.
The peninsula's proximity to the west coast of the US, its natural attrac-
tions (beaches, sea, climate), its duty free status, and fishing potential
provide Baja California with unique assets and an opportunity to tap one
of the largest and richest tourist generating markets in the US. For this
reason, tourism has been singled out by the Government of Mexico as the



- 6 -
most promising sector to bring about social and economic development in
Baja California, especially in the southern part of the peninsula.
3.02     Tourism traffic to the southern part of the peninsula is limited,
primarily due to lack of facilities. Population is sparse and the level
of economic activity low, except in the capital city of La Paz. Tourists
to this region in the past consisted of the wealthy who visited various
points of interest in their own aircraft or yachts, particularly in the
Cabo San Lucas area at the tip of the peninsula.
3.03     Recognizing this area's potential and in light of the Government's
national policy to diversify geographically Mexico's tourism facilities,
FONATUR undertook an anlysis of several areas and sites along the whole
length of the peninsula. The areas were studied with respect to the Gov-
ernment's regional policy to promote Baja California through the establish-
ment of strategically located tourism development poles. Several sites
were evaluated in conformity with economic criteria and with reference to
such characteristics as physical conditions (nature of terrain, attractive-
ness, and climate); market potential; availability of infrastructure, in-
cluding water supply and accessibility of the sites; land tenure situation;
and proximity to existing urban areas. Out of a total of six potential
areas selected on the basis of FONATUR's exhaustive study, the Government
decided to proceed initially with the provision of tourism and other facili-
ties in Loreto and San Jose del Cabo, both areas located in the southern
half of the peninsula. These sites would permit Mexico to promote a diver-
sified product and limit enclave-type development. They would provide an
expanded opportunity to utilize more efficiently the large infrastructure
investments already made by the Government and help spread the economic
benefits of tourism throughout the state. The project would particularly
cater to middle-income tourists, in contrast to the current high income
tourists visiting the peninsula.
Loreto
3.04     Loreto is located on the Sea of Cortez, 360 km north of La Paz.
The town, nestled between the sea and the mountains, is one of the earliest
settlements in Baja California. Its population of 3,200 engages primarily
in fishing and some agriculture. Visitors have been attracted by the
scenic charm, but tourism development is still small and facilities inadequate.
3.05     The principal tourism zone would be located along the wide crescent
beach at Nopolo, 7.5 km south of the town of Loreto. The site is one of
great natural beauty. To the east lie the calm, blue waters of the Sea of
Cortez, suitable for all types of water sports and fishing; to the west
rise picturesque desert mountains. Average annual temperatures of 240C,
combined with a desert atmosphere, ensure constant pleasant weather. South
of Nopolo is Puerto Escondido, a protected natural habor surrounded by
hills,and already popular with foreign visitors who arrive by sea or road.
3.06     A total area of 10,000 ha has been acquired by the Government at



Nopolo and Puerto Escondido for tourism purposes. The development, how-
ever, would be staged. The first stage, to be implemented over a nine-
year period, envisages the construction of 1,000 hotel rooms, 2,000 apartel
(apartment hotel) rooms and 655 condominium units and tourist villas.
3.07     At present, access to Loreto is provided by the recently complet-
ed 1,700 km paved transpeninsular highway. A jetty at Puerto Escondido,
also recently completed, will connect the area with the mainland through
ferry services. Air access to the area is poor. The airport near Loreto
is small and capable of taking only light planes.
3.08     Project development will attract new residents to Loreto.  The
proposed project includes facilities for a population that is projected to
grow from 3,000 to 25,000 in ten years. About 736 ha of land have been
acquired by the Government and legal titles to property will be provided
to present and future residents. Housing for new residents will be fi-
nanced through programs already in operation in Mexico. To aid immigrant
workers and the very poor who do not qualify for the federal programs,
special arrangements will be made under the project to provide land, infra-
structure, and temporary accommodation, as well as construction materials
at cost and technical assistance for building houses.
San Jose del Cabo
3.09     The San Jose del Cabo site is located about 200 km south of La Paz
on the southern tip of Baja California, a region long known to visitors
from the west coast of the US. San Jose del Cabo is reminiscent of Euro-
pean towns with narrow, hilly streets. Beautiful beaches stretch for kilo-
meters on both sides of the town, and an attractive sweet-water lagoon--a
rarity in a desert region--offers special interest. The climate is like
that of Loreto. The sea, however, is rougher than at Loreto and is more
suitable for boating and fishing than swimming.
3.10     The region has benefited from both private and public investments
in hotels and infrastructure. Several hotels have been built along the
coast from San Jose del Cabo to Cabo San Lucas, 30 km to the southwest
(425 hotel rooms); there are also small air strips, generally owned by the
hotels. More recently, the Government initiated the construction of an
international airport 20 km north of the town of San Jose del Cabo, but for
budgetary reasons the project has not yet been completed. Road access is
provided by the recently completed transpeninsular highway. The Government
also recently completed the main works for water supply but has not yet
provided the area with a distribution system.
3.11     The master plan for the development of this area will make use of
investments already made in infrastructure facilities by integrating them
and the town of San Jose del Cabo with the main tourism facilities to be
built 2 km west of the town along a 10 km long beach of fine sand. A total
area of 1,750 ha has been acquired by the Government, though not all land
will be needed immediately. The first stage, to be implemented over nine
years, envisages the construction of 1,100 hotel rooms, 2,050 apartel rooms
and 305 condominium units and tourist villas.



- 8 -
3.12     Facilities in the towns of San Jose del Cabo will be upgraded and
expanded to meet the needs of the local population which is projected, like
Loreto, to grow from 3,500 to 25,000 in ten years. The town will benefit
from project investments similar to those planned for Loreto, which would
include investments to aid migrants and the poorer sections of the popula-
tion. As part of the project, the international airport will be completed.
Project Integration and Environmental Considerations
3.13     The land use plans for the tourism and urban zones in both the pro-
ject areas attempt to balance the best possible protection of the physical
environment with the most economic use of land.  In the tourism areas, land
use has been studied, first, in terms of the likely pattern of visitor ac-
tivity; second, in terms of space requirements and the needed physical fa-
cilities to accommodate those activities; and, third, in terms of the need
to preserve the existing natural environment. For the towns of Loreto and
San Jose del Cabo, special attention was paid to the expected structure and
functioning of the towns' economy and to the spatial distribution of urban
functions. Accompanying these land use plans are detailed zoning and build-
ing regulations. An important feature of these regulations is that all
structures will have building density and height limitations so that visual
integrity can be maintained.
3.14     Because of the fragile nature of the ecological system of the pen-
irnsula, special attention has been paid to the impact of the proposed pro-
jects and the measures that will need to be taken to avoid deterioration of
the environment (Annex XII). As presently designed, no significant external
environmental problem will result from these developments; rather than im-
poverishing the environment, the project will significantly induce changes
to the contrary. Sewage pollution problems were analyzed and the solutions
adopted will preserve the diversity of marine life of the sea. Large tracts
of land have been reserved as "green areas"; buildings will be set back
from the beach, and not allowed on dunes. Provision has been made for
studies to initiate proper water management, as well as for preservation of
the rare sea fauna and wildlife found in the area. The lagoon at San Jose
del Cabo will be cleared, dredged, and conserved. Velocity check dams will
eventually be built at San Jose del Cabo, both to preserve the lagoon and
help recharge the existing aquifer. Provision has also been made for pro-
grams and studies for conservation of the environment around Loreto and
Puerto Escondido, including the outer islands. The area has an extraordi-
nary collection of sea lions, seals, birds, and animals which are of inter-
est to tourists but which must be protected, possibly by creation of a
marine or national park. The results of the wildlife conservation and
coastal zone water management studies, and the appropriate actions to be
taken will be reviewed with the Bank. In addition, four stations for fauna
conservation and protection would also be built under the project and lo-
cated at strategic points along the Sierra. In Puerto Escondido, facilities
for trailers and boats would be provided to reduce the pollution being
created by visitors. Finally, the urban plan for Loreto and the path of air-
craft over San Jose del Cabo have been drawn up so as to avoid noise pol-
lution.



- 9 -
3.15     Private hotel investors are reluctant to be first in a new desti-
nation and generally tend to wait until all tourism infrastructure is in
place before investing, which may be a year or more later than desirable
from a financial and economic point of view. These first investments in
superstructure facilities are crucial in setting the architectural tone of
the resort, and if left to private investors they may not match the pains-
taking planning that will characterize the Government's infrastructure in-
vestment. Accordingly, financing is included in the project for construc-
tion of a first hotel of 250 rooms of medium category at both Loreto and
San Jose del Cabo, which would set the market and architectural tone of the
resorts, demonstrate proper environmental standards, and accelerate the
generation of benefits from investments in infrastructure and other facili-
ties.
B. Project Description
3.16     In each of the Loreto and San Jose del Cabo sites, the project
would include the following main elements, described further in Annex II.
(a)   infrastructure and other facilities
for the tourist zones;
(b)   a medium category 250-room hotel for
each development area;
(c)   infrastructure and other facilities
for the towns;
(d)   airport facilities;  and
(e)   investment promotion, community develop-
ment activity, conservation studies and
programs for both areas, and a tourism
market and economic study.
Loreto
3.17     The road network in the tourism zone at Loreto (Nopolo) includes
the construction of a two km long boulevard parallel to the beach, set back
200 to 300 meters, and an internal two-lane loop road that would provide
access to single family cluster houses and condominia. In addition, a cen-
tral pedestrian spine with a series of squares and plazas would run parallel
to the beach giving easy access to the community. At Loreto, a new entrance
road would connect the transpeninsular highway with an improved street sys-
tem and the center of the town. Landscaping, storm drainage facilities, and
street lighting would be provided for the entire network.
3.18     To meet the electric power needs of both the tourism area and the
town, a 115 kv transmission line will be constructed from the town of Villa
Constitucion 150 km away, a less expensive undertaking than installing new
generating capacity at Loreto. In addition, a new substation and trans-
former will be installed and a distribution system built.
3.19     An integrated telecommunications system will be installed to serve
both tourists and local inhabitants. The new exchange building will be lo-
cated in the town, and the long distance circuits will be tied into the
regional microwave network.



- 10 -
3.20     Water supply for the tourism zone will be tapped from an aquifer
about 5 km to the north. It would involve the construction of a 10 km dis-
tribution system and the use of an existing water storage tank. For the
town, the presently used aquifer will continue to be the source of water
supply, but the main distribution system will be expanded.
3.21     Storm water will be cleared from the tourism zone by allowing it
to flow along street pavements to an artificial lake prior to being dis-
charged into the sea. An open channel going through the middle of the
existing town will intercept storm water from the upper portions of the town
and discharge it into a nearby creek.
3.22     Sewage from the tourism zone will flow by gravity to two pumping
stations and from there will be pumped to stabilization ponds for treatment.
The effluent after treatment will be used for irrigation purposes. A simi-
lar but separate and smaller sewerage system will serve the town. A sani-
tary landfill site for disposal of solid waste has been located 5 km north
of the town of Loreto. Garbage trucks and other equipment are included in
the project.
3.23     The community and cultural center in the tourism zone, which will
be the focal point of activities for the resort, will consist of a large
central plaza surrounded by various facilities, including an auditorium, as
well as rental space for a post office, shops, cafes, and restaurants.
other buildings would include an emergency clinic, and a fire and police
station. A main recreation and landscape feature of the tourism area is an
18-hole golf course, of which nine holes and a clubhouse would be construct-
ed under the project. Beach facilities would include a snack bar and res-
taurant. The town of Loreto would receive a variety of community facilities
such as parks, playgrounds, a health clinic, schools, and a local market.
The existing central plaza would be upgraded, paved, and landscaped. Some
existing buildings around the plaza would be improved. Administrative of-
fices would be located in the town.
3.24     Adjacent to the community and cultural center, a boat house and
pier will be constructed for aquatic sports and fishing, as well as excur-
sions to the neighboring islands. In addition, a year-round boat anchorage
will be located at the southern end of the tourism zone at Nopolo, well pro-
tected by a 60 m rocky promontory. Public beach facilities will be provided
to be used by the local population.
3.25     The project includes a 250-room hotel of medium category to be com-
pleted at about the same time as the infrastructure and other facilities.
The exact location of the hotel in the tourism zone will be subject to
Bank approval.
3.26     The small general aviation airport at Loreto will be upgraded and
expanded to handle larger aircraft and larger volumes of traffic. Works
would include the lengthening, widening, and strengthening of the existing
runway, and the construction of a new taxiway, apron, and terminal building.
Also included in the project will be the construction of a control tower, a
three-bay crash, fire, and rescue building, a fuel farm, an access road, a
parking area, and the installation of fencing, visual aids, communication and
radio navigation equipment.



San Jose del Cabo
3.27     The road network at San Jose del Cabo will consist of a 1.6 km main
boulevard extending from the transpeninsular highway to form a circuit around
the community and cultural center and a two-lane road that connects the tour-
ism zone with the town's main street. The town and the tourism zone will
each have a focal point of activity, and a pedestrian way with small parks
and plazas will connect the two.  The entire network will have street light-
ing and appropriate landscaping.
3.28     With the installation of a 115 km transmission line between La Paz
and San Jose del Cabo now nearing completion, San Jose and the surrounding
area will be served with electric power from generating plants in La Paz.
The project makes provision for a substation, transformers, and local dis-
tribution lines.
3.29     The existing telecommunications system will be expanded to serve
tourism as well as the projected needs of the local population. A new ex-
change building will be built in the town and equipment installed in stages.
3.30     Water will be supplied by four wells that have been drilled and by
a major aqueduct already constructed to serve several small towns in the
area. Provision has been made for water storage facilities, pumping sta-
tions, and a distribution system.
3.31     The storm water drainage system consists of two interceptors that
will collect storm water from the higher areas surrounding the town and the
tourism zone. The interceptor in town will discharge the water into a near-
by estuary, while another in the tourism zone will discharge the water into
the sea.
3.32     The sewage from the tourism zone and the town will be pumped to sta-
bilization ponds. The effluent after treatment will be used for irrigation.
A landfill site will be located between the town and the airport for disposal
of solid waste. Provision has been made for garbage trucks and other needed
equipment.
3.33     Hotel and other accommodation in the tourism zone have been planned
around a community and cultural center to be built under the project which
will consist of a central plaza surrounded by various facilities, including
an auditorium and rental space for shops, restaurants, and offices. Recre-
ational facilities will include a fishing pier and boat dock, tennis courts,
and some beach facilities. Because swimming is unsafe in front of the tour-
ism zone during certain periods, a marine structure would be provided to
allow a safe bathing area. Buildings included in the project consist of a
police and fire station, an emergency clinic, schools, a health center, and
some staff housing. In addition, some existing buildings in the town will
be remodeled and repaired, and an old, interesting cemetery landscaped and
preserved.
3.34     As in the case of Loreto, the project includes the construction of
a 250-room hotel of medium category. The exact location of the hotel in the
tourism zone will be subject to Bank approval.



- 12 -
3.35     The project makes provision for completion of the airport at San
Jose del Cabo. This will include construction of a terminal building, a
control tower, a three-bay crash, fire, and rescue building, a fuel farm,
and an automobile parking lot. It will also include the installation of
communication, navigation and visual aids as well as perimeter fencing.
3.36     Water management, conservation (para. 3.14), market and economic
(para. 4.26) studies are also included in the project (Annexes II and X).
C. Cost Estimates
3.37     The cost estimates and the foreign exchange component of the pro-
ject elements are summarized in Table 1 on page 13.
3.38     Baseline costs reflect October 1976 price levels, converted into
US dollars at an exchange rate of US$1 - Mex$19.90, the rate current at
that time. An allowance of 10% to 15% of civil works and equipment costs
has been made to cover physical contingencies, depending on the degree of
design detail available for individual project components. On average,
the allowance amounts to 13% and is reasonable since most of the cost es-
timates are based on fairly detailed design work and equipment lists.
Price contingencies have been calculated in dollar terms and take into ac-
count the projected implementation schedule as well as any likely increases
in price levels during the construction period. Mexico has lately been
experiencing major price increases, especially since the recent devaluation
of the peso, the first in 22 years. Total provision for contingencies
amounts to US$24.5 million, which represents 41.3% of baseline costs, or
29.2% of total project costs (Annex I, Table 9).
3.39     Roads, water supply, and sewerage components of the project are in
draft final design stage, requiring only minor revisions. The telecommuni-
cations and electric power component cost estimates are in line with costs
of similar works recently carried out in Baja California. The hotel as
well as community facilities and buildings were designed from detailed spa-
tial programs for each element, accompanied by floor plans, elevations, and
sections at a scale of 1:200. The Ministry of Human Settlements and Public
Works (SAHOP) is in the process of preparing final design drawings for the
airport components. Cost estimates for equipment procured locally include
taxes, and transportation to sites, port, warehouse, and handling charges;
charges are equivalent to about 15% of the c.i.f. prices. Since Baja Cali-
fornia is a free zone, no import duties are applicable.
3.40     For the project as a whole, consultants' services are estimated to
total 1,075 man-months over a 3-1/2 year period and to cost about US$3.9
million. Some 64 man-months would be provided by foreign consultants.
D. Execution and Operation
3.41     Basic responsibility for executing the proposed project would rest
with FONATUR with the exception of electric power, telecommunications, and
the airports, which would be carried out by other government agencies. The



13 -
Tahle 1: Project Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
Percent of
Mex. $ (million)           US$ (million)        Foreign
Project Items                 Local Foreign Total       Local Foreign Total    Exchange
Tourism Area of Loreto           75    138    213         3.8   6.9    10.7         64
Civil Works                  54      93    147         2.7   4.7      7.4
Equipment                     8      42     50         0.4   2.1      2.5
Consulting Services          13       3     16         0.7   0.1      0.8
Town of Loreto                  58      73    131         2.9   3.7      6.6       56
Civil Works                  48      59    107         2.4   3.0      5.4
Equipment                     2      12     14         0.1   0.6      0.7
Consulting Services           8       2     10         0.4   0.1      0.5
Tourism Area and Town
of San Jose del Cabo          82    106    188          4.2   5.3      9.5       56
Civil Works                  63      64    127         3.2   3.2      6.4
Equipment                     7      38     45         0.4   1.9      2.3
Consulting Services          12       4     16         0.6   0.2      0.8
Pilot Hotels                    91    109    200          4.6   5.4    10.0         54
Civil Works                  71      65    136         3.6   3.2      6.8
Equipment                     7      42     49         0.4   2.1      2.5
Consulting Services          13       2     15         0.6   0.1      0.7
Airports                        85    105    190          4.2   5.3      9.5        56
Civil Works                  64      67    131         3.2   3.4      6.6
Equipment                     7      38     45         0.3   1.9      2.2
Consulting Services          14             14         0.7            0.7
Community Development             7      1      8         0.3   0.1      0.4       16
Pre-Opening Activities          27             27         1.4            1.4       -
Investment Promotion             3      17     20         0.1   0.9      1.0       88
Project Administration           57     11     68         2.9   0.5      3.4       16
Market and Economic Study                8      8               0.4      0.4      100
Base-Line Cost                 485    568  1,053         24.4  28.5    52.9        54
Contingencies:                 221    268    489         11.1  13.5    24.6        55
Physical Increase            43      71    114         2.1   3.6      5.7       63
Price Increase 1/           178    197    375          9.0   9.9    18.9        52
Land Acquisition               129            129         6.5            6.5       -
Total Project Cost             835    836  1,671         42.0  42.0    84.0        50
1/  Assuming an average price increase of 12% per year for 1977-1979 and
10% for 1980 except for equipment, for whicb an 8% increase per year
has been assumed for 1977-1979 and 7% for 1980. Price contingencies
are "dollar contingencies" and have been converted to Mexican pesos
at an exchange rate of US$ I = Mex$ 19.9 for illustrative purposes only.



- 14 -
overall financial position of FONATUR is sound with adequate net working
capital generated from its operations (Annex VI). FONATUR is managed by
able and highly qualified individuals.
3.42     FONATUR has been concentrating its efforts in developing Cancun
and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo. These require diminishing attention, since the
first phase of the Cancun project is completed while that of Ixtapa-Zihua-
tanejo is nearing completion. With the invaluable experience it has gain-
ed, FONATUR is now in a position to focus its attention on Baja California.
3.43     The land tenure system in Baja California has been an important
consideration in designing the institutional arrangements to implement this
project. In the tourism zone in Loreto (Nopolo-Puerto Escondido), an area
totaling 10,000 ha along 20 km of coastline was expropriated from private
individuals and transferred to FONATUR. The town of Loreto, however, is
built on ejidal land and titles to the existing urban property in and
around the town were neither clear nor legal. In order to legalize the
situation, the Government expropriated the urban land, including 4 km of
coastline. The Government, however, cannot legally transfer the land di-
rectly to FONATUJR. Therefore, a new trust fund will be established, with
several public agencies as members, including the Land Regularization Com-
mittee (CORETT) and the state government. While this new trust fund will
own the land, FONATUR will be solely responsible for the investment activ-
ities in the town under the project and for the sale of urban property. In
San Jose del Cabo, a similar land situation existed in the town as well as
in the tourism zone. Accordingly, about 1,750 ha of land were expropriated
and will be transferred to another new trust fund which will also be man-
aged by FONATUR. The satisfactory establishment of the trust funds would
be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.44     FONATUR will contract with the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE)
and the Telecommunications Corporation of Mexico (TELMEX) to design and
construct the electric power and telecommunications networks. Responsibil-
ity for operation and maintenance will also be assumed by CFE and by TELMEX.
Technical designs and specifications of hydraulic works as well as water,
sewerage, and storm water drainage systems would be subject to approval by
the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH), although the
actual implementation would be the responsibility of FONATUR. Operation
and maintenance of these systems will be the responsibility of special lo-
cal commissions (juntas) set up for the purpose, which in the initial years
will receive support from FONATUR. Roads, streets, and solid waste dispos-
al in the towns of Loreto and San Jose del Cabo will be maintained and
operated by the local municipality. In addition, government agencies such
as the Ministry for Health and the Ministry for Education will be responsi-
ble for providing health and education services, and for adequately staffing
and maintaining the relevant facilities.
3.45     Responsibility for design and construction of airport facilities
will be that of SAHOP and SCT. Four agencies will be responsible for their
operation and maintenance, including SAHOP, the Airports and Auxiliary Ser-
vices Agency (ASA), the Aeronautical Radio Company of Mexico (RAMSA), and
the National Company of Aviation Combustibles (NACOA).



- 15 -
3.46     All these agencies have the requisite experience and competence to
execute the respective components of the project. FONATUR will not later
than June 30, 1978 enter into contractual arrangements with CFE and TELMEX
on the scope of the electric power and telecommunications program, the cost
and construction timing. The project areas, however, will have to be as-
sured of services and facilities not financed under the project. Accord-
ingly, assurances have been obtained that the project areas will receive ade-
quate aviation, water supply, power, and telecommunication services. Also,
to protect the project investments the Government has agreed to adopt not
later than June 30, 1978 land use and zoning codes that would regulate devel-
opment on land immediately surrounding the project areas.
3.47     To ensure proper supervision of design and construction as well as
to coordinate efforts of other agencies, a Project Unit to deal with invest-
ments in Baja California would be set up within FONATUR (Annex VI). The
Project Unit would have a Director, stationed in Mexico City, who would be
responsible for the project and coordinate the activities in both sites
through managers, who would spend half the time in Mexico City and the re-
mainder in Baja California. In addition, each site would have a chief en-
gineer stationed permanently in Baja California, and a staff of technicians,
accountants, sociologists, community development workers, and procurement
officers.
3.48     FONATUR would be responsible for the disposal of land to private in-
vestors for the construction of hotels, restaurants, villas, and other facil-
ities. It would also be responsible, through the new trust funds, for dis-
posal of the urban property in the two towns. In addition, in the tourism
zones of Loreto and San Jose del Cabo, FONATUR will be responsible for vari-
ous facilities including parks and plazas, roads and streets, landscaping,
beaches, beach facilities, the community and cultural center, and recreation
facilities. In the case of the pilot hotels, FONATUR plans to hand over
operation and management to Nacional Hotelera, a Government owned hotel oper-
ating company in which FONATUR controls a majority share. Arrangements for
financing, managing and operating the hotels would be subject to Bank approval.
3.49     No hotel training facilities will be constructed under the project.
A large and modern hotel training center which includes a 109-room practice
hotel has recently been constructed by the Secretariat of Tourism at La Paz,
at a cost of Mex$60 million. These facilities are considered adequate for
the needs of the proposed project. The Government has already set up a trust
fund to operate and manage these facilities as a hotel school and assurances
were obtained that the Government will take such actions as are necessary to
adequately satisfy the staff requirements of the hotels in the project areas.
3.50     Final designs, plans, and specifications for the project will be
submitted to the Bank for approval. This would include architectural de-
signs for the hotel, and land use and zoning regulations for both areas.
Because of complex problems in coordinating the execution of all parts of the
project on schedule, a critical path chart now under preparation will be com-
pleted. This chart would be reviewed by all parties concerned every three
months and the results of such reviews would be communicated to the Bank.



- 16 -
E. Financing Plan and Lending Arrangements
3.51     Total estimated cost of the project is US$84 million.  It is pro-
posed that the Bank loan of US$42 million cover the foreign exchange compo-
nent, or 50% of total project costs. The balance would be provided
through budgetary allocations of the Government, which would also meet any
cost overruns. The consolidated financing plan for the project including
contingencies can be summarized as follows:
Table 2: Consolidated Financing Plan
(US$ thousands)
Source of Funds
Estimated                 Government
Component                                    Cost       Bank Loan   Contribution
Loreto                                       25,277       14,745        10,532
San Jose del Cabo                            13,484        7,331         6,153
Pilot Hotels                                 15,410        8,236         7,174
Airports                                     14,293        7,948         6,345
Community Development                         0,546        0,273         0,273
Proj. Admin. & Pre-Opening Expenses           6,548        2,262         4,286
Investment Promotion                          1,402        0,701         0,701
Market & Economic Study                        0,504       0,504          -
Land Acquisition                              6,482         -            6,482
Total                                     83,946       42,000        41,946
3.52     In line with Government policy, and as was agreed by the Bank in the
case of the Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo project (and by IDB for the Cancun project),
it is proposed that the proceeds of the Bank loan for the Baia California
project be made available to FONATUR as equity contribution for timely execu-
tion of project components. In order to maintain financial standards, how-
ever, certain safeguards have been adopted to ensure that FONATUR would have
no difficulty in recovering its investment and earning a reasonable return
(para. 4.22).
F. Procurement and Disbursement
3.53     Major civil works and equipment contracts would be awarded on the ba-
sis of international competitive bidding. Mexico currently has legislative
guidelines for procurement of goods and services under public sector financed
projects which are basically in line with Bank guidelines../ Project items
have been grouped into packages (Annex I, Tables 2 to 6) in order to encourage
such competitive bidding, but bidders would also be able to bid on individual
items. A high percentage of the building materials required for the project
is produced in Mexico; however, because of lower transport costs and the duty
free status of Baja California, a large portion of goods may come from the US
or Canada. In evaluating international bids for equipment and furniture, lo-
cal manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f.
price of competing imports or the prevailing level of customs duties, which-
1/ Law on Public Works and Contracts (Dec. 21, 1965) and General Bases and
Standards for Public Works Contracts (Jan. 26, 1970).



- 17 -
ever is lower. Some civil works and equipment contracts for such items as
earthworks, field offices and beach facilities would be too small to attract
foreign bids. It is therefore proposed that these civil work contracts,
each not to exceed US$500,000 in value, and equipment contracts, each not to
exceed US$100,000 in value, would be awarded after local competitive bidding.
The total value of such contracts would not exceed US$4 million equivalent.
-iinoz civil tworks suci as landscaping, gardening and environmental sanita-
tion, the total cost of which is estimated not to exceed US$1 million equiva-
lent, would be carried out on force account by FONATUR. Since the navaid
equipment for the airports should be compatible with equipment used in all
airports in Mexico, procurement of this equipment, valued at US$700,000,
would be negotiated directly with the supplier.
3.54     FONATUR would be responsible for advertising requests for tenders,
issuing tender documents, evaluating bids, and awarding contracts for all
project components, with the exception of the airports, electric power, and
telecommunications. SAHOP and CFE have been past beneficiaries of Bank
loans and would have no problem following established procedures. Because
of the present setup of TELMEX and the manner in which that organization im-
plements projects and procures equipment, the Bank loan will not finance the
telecommunications component.
3.55     Disbursement of funds from the loan would be on the following basis:
(a)   100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment and furniture or 100% of the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured equipment and furniture;
(b)   50% of total expenditures for civil works, con-
sulting services, community development activities,
investment promotion and project administration; and
(c)   100% of total expenditures for wildlife, coastal
water, conservation, market and economic studies.
3.56     A schedule showing the estimated rate of disbursement is given in
Annex I, Table 8. Disbursements would be fully documented and any funds
remaining in the loan on completion of the project would be cancelled. In
order not to delay implementation of the project, it is proposed that a part
of engineering expenditures incurred after December 1, 1976, and not exceed-
ing US$300,000 equivalent, be financed retroactively.
IV.  JUSTIFICATION
A. Market Demand
Tourist Growth Rates and Projections
4.01     Foreign tourism to Mexico has been growing at an average rate of
10% a year over the last 15 years. In only two years since 1961 (1974 and
1975) has the growth rate been less than 8.7%. In 1974 the number of visi-
tor arrivals increased by 3.7%; in 1975 it declined 4.3% (the first decline
since 1953). This decrease was mainly attributable to the economic reces-



- 18 -
sion in the US and to Mexico's uncompetitive position resulting from an
overvalued peso. Visitor arrivals totaled 3.22 million in 1975. Table 3
shows recent trends in foreign visitor arrivals.
Table 3: Foreign Visitor Arrivals (Thousands)
Average Annual
1976      Growth Rate (%)
Origin              1970      1974     1975      (est.)    1970/74   1970/76
United States      1,980    2,860    2,720       2,870         9.7        6.4
Canada                70       130      120        130        16.7      10.9
Other                200       370      380        330        16.6        8.7
Total           2,250    3,360    3,220       3,330        10.5       6.8
The factors that affected the total flow of visitors in the 70s had a
smaller impact on visitors coming to Mexico by air.  The average annual
growth of visitors traveling by air was 16% in the 1970-74 period and 11%
between 1970 and 1976.
4.02     In 1975, foreign visitors spent a total of 34 million nights in the
country, which averaged to a stay of 10.6 nights per visitor. Hotel statis-
tics indicate that they stayed approximately four nights in places such as
Mexico City, Acapulco, and Puerto Vallarta, which indicates that tourists
typically visit more than one destination while in the country. Foreign tour-
ists, however, now seem to be following a single destination trend which in
the long run may generate more tourism in the resorts along the coast. Mexi-
cans also account for a significant share of overall tourism activities in
Mexico (para. 2.05).
4.03     FONATUR, on the basis of its studies, projects both foreign and do-
mestic tourism to grow at an average annual rate of 9% over the next ten
years. These visitor and visitor night projections, as well as projections on
a more conservative growth rate assumption of 6%, are summarized in Table 4.
Table 4: Visitor and Visitor Night Projections to Mexico
Item                            1976     1980      1985      1990
1/       (est.)
Number of Visitors (million)-
Foreign (Growth Rate 9%)               3.3       4.7       7.2     11.1
Foreign (Growth Rate 6%)               3.3       4.2       5.6      7.5
Domestic (Growth Rate 9%)             16.5      23.3     35.8      55.1
Domestic (Growth Rate 6%)             16.5      20.8     27.9      37.3
Number of Visitor Nights (million)
Foreign (Growth Rate 9%)              35.0      49.4      76.0    117.0
Foreign (Growth Rate 6%)              35.0      43.0      59.1     79.1
Domestic (Growth Rate 9%)             31.0      43.8     67.3    103.6
Domestic (Growth Rate 6%)             31.0      39.1      52.4     70.1
1/  Foreign visitors include Mexicans residing abroad.



- 19 -
4.04     Market projections for Baja California have been established on
the basis of planned accommodation development and their likely utiliza-
tion at Loreto and San Jose del Cabo (Table 5). Length of stay and occu-
pancy rates are based on past experience in Mexico. Because of its vi-
cinity to the US, roughly 70% of all visitors to these sites are expected
to be foreigners (78% in Loreto and 61% in San Jose del Cabo), which is
somewhat higher than in other Mexican resorts. The number of visitors has
been calculated on the assumption that they will visit only one of the two
project areas in the course of a trip to Baja California; the target num-
ber of visitors could be lower if some tourists (possibly up to a fourth)
visit both project areas. The target figures range between 0.3% and 3% of
the overall market projections for the number of guest-nights spent in
Mexico over the 1980-1990 period under the conservative 6% growth rate
(0.5% to 4% in the case of foreign visitors and 0.2% to 2% in the case of
Mexicans). These targets are reasonably attainable if adequate air access
and promotion are provided.
Table 5: Accommodation and Visitor Projections,
1980, 1985 and 1990
Item                             1980/81            1985         1990
Hotels and Apartels
Number of Rooms                            800          4,950        6,150
Occupancies (%)                             50             63            70
Double Occupancy Factor (guests/room)    1.8              1.8           1.8
Average Length of Stay (days)
For Foreigners                            4              4             4
For Mexicans                              3              3             3
Condominia and Villas
Number of Rooms                              -          1,115         2,330
Occupancies (%)                              -             50            50
Double Occupancy Factor (guests/room)        -            2.5           2.5
Average Length of Stay (days)
For Foreigners                            -              6             6
For Mexicans                              -             10            10
Market Targets
Visitors                                66,000        600,000      800,000
Visitor Nights                         250,000      2,500,000    3,900,000
Potential Market Competition for Baja California
4.05     FONATUR has undertaken market studies for Baja California resorts
which indicate that in the case of foreign tourists the project will be
particularly appealing to the market from the southwestern US, in particu-
lar from the state of California. It will also be in a position to compete
with southern California resorts where some eight million Californian and
non-Californian visitors spent some 35 million nights in 1975, and Hawaii
where 2.8 million visitors spent 32 million nights in the same year. In
addition, Baja California will have to compete with other northwestern



- 20 -
Mexican resorts where some one million visitors from the US and Canada
spent some four million nights in 1975. The studies further indicate that
more than two-thirds of the tourists would come by air, that the majority
would need first-class rather than luxury-type accommodation, and that not
all of the visitors to Loreto and San Jose del Cabo will come to Mexico
solely because of the project. In the case of Mexicans, FONATUR's studies
indicate that the project resorts will attract visitors, mostly from Mexico
City, Guadalajara, and Monterrey, some of whom would normally travel to
northwestern Mexico (in particular to Mazatlan and Puerto Vallarta) and to
the southwestern United States.
4.06     The main market segments for the projectl-  (and their projected an-
nual growth rates) are the following: (a) US visitors to southern California
who travel by air (2.2%); (b) US visitors to Hawaii (8.3%); (c) Canadian
visitors to the west coast of the US who travel by air (4.4%); (d) car trav-
elers from California, Nevada, Utah, and Arizona who travel more than 2,000
miles roundtrip (1.2%), and (e) US and Mexican visitors to Mazatlan and
Puerto Vallarta (9.9%). Projecting the growth of each segment with these
rates, the target numbers of visitors to the project areas by 1980 would re-
present only some 1% of the potential market attributed to the segments de-
fined above, which clearly do not exhaust the market. Given that the pro-
ject meets the major criteria that attract visitors to a given area (appeal-
ing climate and natural environment; reasonable vacation cost, including the
cost of transportation; proximity to major markets), the visitor target num-
ber, both as a proportion of total projected volume of tourism to Mexico and
as a proportion of the projected potential market, appears feasible. In
order to compete with destinations in southern California and Hawaii, how-
ever, comparable facilities need to be provided. Room tariffs in 1975 in
southern California and Hawaii averaged some US$26 and US$30 per night re-
spectively. The market strategy for Baja California therefore calls for
construction of facilities of good quality to be provided to visitors at
prices slightly lower than in southern California and Hawaii. The projected
average hotel room tariff in the two project areas is US$25 per night.
Travel Modes and Expenditures
4.07     Most visitors to the proposed project areas are expected to travel
by air. Experience at other resorts has demonstrated that attracting large
numbers of foreign visitors by air to Mexico requires provision of flights
from major points in the US. The airport at San Jose del Cabo is already
included in the bilateral air agreement with the US and can be served by
both US and Mexican airlines from Los Angeles, Tucson and Phoenix. Loreto,
however, is not. Accordingly, assurances have been obtained from the Govern-
ment that it will have Mexican scheduled airlines serve San Jose del Cabo and
Loreto on domestic segments of international routes to and from major tourism
generating countries to coincide with the opening of the first two hotels at
each site. In addition, assurances have been obtained that the Government will
make its best efforts to retain San Jose del Cabo in future bilateral air
agreements and include Loreto in these bilaterals, so that scheduled inter-
1/ These segments comprise visitor flows rather than population groups.
Since some people travel to more than one place during a one-year period,
the segments overlap in terms of population, but not in terms of overall
visitor flows.



- 21 -
national air service can be initiated to coincide with the opening of the
first two hotels at each site. The flying time from Los Angeles to Loreto
would be just over 1-1/2 hours and to San Jose del Cabo 2 hours, as compared
to more than 5 hours to Hawaii. In addition to arrivals by air, it is ex-
pected that some 30% of the visitors will use the highway that connects the
US border with the tip of Baja California peninsula, providing access to both
Loreto and San Jose del Cabo. The road distance between Los Angeles and
Loreto is some 1,500 km and some 2,000 km in the case of San Jose del Cabo.
4.08     In mid-1976, foreign visitors to Mexico spent an average of US$24 per
day, with visitors arriving by air spending more than US$38 per day. The per-
centage of total guest-nights spent by Mexicans and foreigners and the aver-
age daily expenditures in late 1976 prices in the two project areas is ex-
pected to be as follows:
Loreto                             San Jose del Cabo
Mexicans  Foreigners  All Visitors       Mexicans  Foreigners  All Visitors
(25.7%)    (74.3%)       (100%)          (39.1%)    (60.9%)       (100%)
US$25.8    US$39.0       US$35.6         US$28.1    US$42.7        US$37.0
The average expenditure figures for foreign visitors to the project areas are
a little more than the average for foreign air travelers to Mexico as a whole
(many of whom do not use paid accommodation, therefore spending little, and
who do not represent a typical resort visitor), but less than for foreign
tourists to Mexico who stay ten days or less in the country and spend an aver-
age of US$45 per day; for those who come on charter groups (US$60); and for
those visiting destinations such as Cancun and Ixtapa (US$48). In projecting
the levels of expenditures, it is assumed that foreign visitor expenditures
will decline after the August 1976 devaluation. Also as a reflection of the
devaluation, the projected expenditures of Mexican tourists are assumed would
be lower than recent experience in Mexican resorts indicates (over US$45 per
day in Cancun in mid-1976). Overall, the expenditure projections are there-
fore reasonably conservative and consistent with the facilities offered.
4.09     Based on experience in other tourist resorts in Mexico, the breakdown
of projected average expenditures of foreign visitors is calculated to be as
follows: accommodation, food and beverages 58%; entertainment 14%; local trans-
portation 11%; shopping 12%; and other 5%. The expenditure breakdown of Mexi-
can visitors is only slightly different; they are expected to spend a higher
proportion on accommodation and lower on shopping and local transportation.
B. Development of Tourism Facilities
4.10     The project calls for a gradual build up of accommodation capacity
in both zones over the 1980-1987 period (see Table 6). Of the total projec-
ted accommodations, one-third would be of the pure hotel type and the remain-
der would be apartels.i! There is no significant difference between hotels
and apartels in terms of operation from the point of view of services received
by the tourist (Annex VIII); ownership would be different in that apartel
units would be sold to individual purchasers by the developer.
1/ Because of the small proportion of villa and condominium units, the
expected development of these facilities are not shown in this table.



- 22 -
Table 6: Development of Capacity 1980-1987
(Number of Rooms)
San Jose del Cabo             Loreto                   Total
Year     Annual  Cumulative      Annual  Cumulative       Annual  Cumulative
1980       400        400          400        400           800       800
1981       300        700          500        900           800     1,600
1982       300      1,000          400      1,300           700     2,300
1983       400      1,400          400      1,700           800     3,100
1984       450      1,850          600      2,300         1,050     4,150
1985       500      2,350          300      2,600           800     4,950
1986       400      2,750          200      2,800           600     5,500
1987       400      3,150          200      3,000           600     6,150
When fully developed, most of the accommodations are expected to be of the
A category in line with market expectations rather than the AA or B type,
as follows:
Category    San Jose del Cabo    Loreto    Total
AA                475              450      925
A               2,200            2,100    4,300
B                 475             450       925
4.11     Private investors have long been interested in participating in
tourism development in Baja California. Several projects have been submit-
ted to the Government for approval but many have not gone forward for such
reasons as land tenure problems and the absence of needed infrastructure.
Recent discussions with potential hotel developers and investors have con-
firmed a strong interest in building at Loreto and San Jose del Cabo and
the prospects for hotel and apartel investments are considered favorable.
No binding commitments have been made, however. Investors are reluctant to
be the first in a new development. Therefore, as noted previously
(para. 3.15), provision is made in the project for the construction of a
pilot hotel of 250 rooms of the A category at each site. In addition, for
successful launching of the resorts, the Government is prepared to take all
necessary action, including the provision of adequate financing, to ensure
the construction and operation of an additional hotel with a capacity of not
less than 150 rooms at each site, to be opened at the same time as the hotels
being financed under the project and another 600 rooms at each site three years
thereafter. The Government will also make its best efforts to have an addi-
tional 900 rooms in operation at each site seven years after the project is
implemented to ensure the economic viability of the program of investments.
4.12     To test the financial viability of these facilities, operating pro-
jections for a typical 250-room hotel and 250-room apartel (Annex VIII) dem-
onstrate the profitability of such investments. The rate of return on equi-
ty in hotel investments in the sixth year of operation is 12%, increasing to
14% in the tenth year. With respect to apartels, the rate of return on
equity is 11% in the fourth year and 17% in the sixth year of operation.
Investments in apartels are financially more attractive than in hotels be-
cause of lower capital and operating costs. The apartel concept also makes
it easier for promoters to raise capital among small investors.



- 23 -
4.13     Under the Mexican Constitution, foreigners cannot directly own
land within 100 km of international borders and 50 km of the coast. How-
ever, the Decree of April 29, 1971 permits accredited Mexican banks to act
as trustees for foreigners. The banks can purchase land on behalf of for-
eigners and hold the land for them in trust for a 10-year period, renewable
to a maximum of 30 years. After 30 years, foreigners can seek a new trust
with another bank or instruct the bank to sell the land. This decree has
helped to solve one of the thorniest problems that existed for private for-
eign investors.
C. Financial Aspects
4.14     For financial evaluation purposes, the proposed investments have
been divided into three groups: (a) items relating to the development of
the urban and tourism zones in Loreto and San Jose del Cabo, including com-
mercial, recreational and urban facilities and some infrastructure, but ex-
cluding telecommunications and part of the investments in electric power,
water supply and sewerage components; (b) the pilot hotels to be financed
under the project; and (c) the airports at Loreto and San Jose del Cabo.
Urban and Tourism Development
4.15     The capital costs of urban and tourism zone development are esti-
mated at US$34.1 million including financial charges during construction
but excluding price contingencies. Although these costs include the cost
of electric power, water supply and sewerage distribution networks, they
exclude: (a) investments in water supply and sewerage headworks and equip-
ment which have been analyzed separately (para. 4.17) and (b) investments
in electric power headworks and telecommunications for reasons explained
in para. 4.18. The basic financial objectives which the urban and tourism
zone investments are expected to meet is the recovery of investment costs
and the earning of a reasonable rate of return. These would be achieved
mainly by FONATUR through the sale of hotel, residential, and commercial
sites in the tourism area, the sale of commercial and residential lots in
the urban areas, and through charges for improvements made in the existing
towns. FONATUR's operating policy calls for all developed land for sites
of hotels and other superstructure to be sold, rather than leased, with the
condition that no land may be acquired or held indefinitely for speculative
purposes (Annex VI). The funds that will become available to FONATUR
through the sale of land and various services are allocated by FONATUR's
Technical and Resources Allocation Committee in accordance with the Govern-
ment's priorities. This committee consists of representatives of various
agencies including the Ministry of Finance, Presidencia and Patrimonio Na-
cional, and is chaired by the Minister of Tourism. For the project areas
specifically, FONATUR will not later than June 30, 1978 prepare in consul-
tation with the Bank, a statement of its financial policy, including
methodology for calculating selling prices and rental charges, as well as
procedures for their implementation. Average sale prices in Baja Califor-
nia are projected to range from US$20 to US$35 per m2 for hotel, residen-
tial, and commercial sites, and from US$10 to US$12 per m2 for land used
for urban purposes. These prices are reasonable and compare favorably with
the price of developed land elsewhere in Mexico and the United States.



- 24 -
4.16     Based on these estimates, the financial rate of return on invest-
ments in San Jose del Cabo in the fifth year of operation would be 24%
(net cash flow on equity). The return would be of the same magnitude in
the tourism zone in Loreto. However, when the financial projections for
the tourism zone in Loreto and the town of Loreto are consolidated, the
combined return is relatively low, 10% in the fifth year of operation.
The lower consolidated returns in Loreto compared to San Jose del Cabo are
largely due to the larger infrastructure investments needed in the town of
Loreto.
4.17     Financial projections made separately for the water supply and
sewerage components of the project are characterized by initial periods of
losses and tight liquidity positions, followed by adequate profits and
large cash surpluses (Annex IV). For Loreto, the annual financial rate of
return on net fixed assets is 2.8% in the third full year of operations,
increasing to 12.3% in the fifth year. For San Jose del Cabo, the annual
financial rate of return is 8.3% in the fourth full year of operations,
increasing to 14.6% in the fifth year.  The losses in the initial years,
followed by profits and cash surpluses in later years reflect the carrying
costs of initial large investments required for a relatively complete sys-
tem which operates for the first few years well below capacity. Assurances
were obtained from the Government that all investment costs for water sup-
ply and sewerage systems in the project areas would be recovered through
land sales and user charges, and that water and sewerage charges would be
sufficient to cover: (a) the costs of operation and maintenance of such
facilities, including depreciation based on a reasonable valuation of all
headworks and equipment costs; (b) increases in working capital; and
(c) the financing of minor expansion of the facilities.
4.18     No attempt has been made to evaluate separately the investments
in electric power headworks and the telecommunications system, which form
a minor portion of CFE's and TELMEX' national network. The charges levied
by these agencies are standard tariffs for different classes of service
applied throughout Mexico. The Bank has for many years lent to CFE for ex-
pansion of the electric power system in Mexico, and it has not been consid-
ered appropriate to carry out a detailed financial analysis of these general
policies for the present project. With regard to telecommunications, which
will not be financed by the proposed loan, consumers pay monthly tariffs
and are obligated to pay for capital costs through purchase of company
shares which can be traded in the stock market, ensuring that there is at
least full cost recovery.
Pilot Hotels
4.19     The cost estimates for the pilot hotels to be built under the pro-
ject are shown in Table 5 of Annex I. Capital costs per room average about
US$27,000 in 1976 prices, including interest during construction, working
capital, the cost of land, and physical contingencies. Detailed financial
projections for the pilot hotels are given in Annex VIII. Revenues from
hotel operations are based on a projected occupancy rate of 50% in the
first year of operation, increasing to 70% in the fifth year, a double oc-
cupancy factor of 1.8, and an average room rate of US$25. Revenues from
sale of food and beverages and other services are assumed to equal revenues



- 25 -
from room sales. Operating costs for the hotel operations have been esti-
mated on the basis of current experience in existing facilities and stan-
dard ratios for comparable hotels in Mexico.
4.20     On these assumptions, the financial projections indicate that the
hotels would be financially viable and have satisfactory rates of return.
In the sixth year of operation the rate of return on equity would be 12%,
rising to 14% in the tenth year of operation. The projected sources and
application of funds show that the hotels would be able to generate suffi-
cient income to meet their financial obligations, including debt service,
management fees, and reserves for replacements. The projected balance
sheet also indicates that the hotels' financial position would be sound
and that dividends could be paid from the sixth year of operations onwards.
Airports
4.21     The revenues from the airports will be sufficient to pay for their
operating expenses, but with little recovery of capital costs (Annex III),
partly because departure taxes, a significant incremental revenue source
of the airport, are traditionally not retained by the airport authorities.
If departure taxes collected at the airports are included, the simple an-
nual financial rate of return reaches 10.8% of average net fixed assets
by 1986/87 in the case of Loreto and 17% in the case of San Jose del Cabo.
Increased flights generated by the airport investments will significantly
increase landings and, hence, landing fees at other Mexican airports, with
little increase in operating costs or investments. The net return to the
airport authority, therefore, is considerably higher.
Financial Covenants
4.22     FONATUR has agreed to develop and use not later than January 31,
1978, specific financial reporting formats acceptable to the Bank, which
would include program budgets, progress reports, and project management
accounting statements for each project area. These reports, which would
be submitted to FONATUR's management and the Bank, would include compari-
sons of the actual operating results vs. budgeted financial and operating
targets, with explanations for significant variations. FONATUR's finan-
cial records would be maintained according to generally accepted accounting
principles and audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Audited financial statements would be submitted to the Bank within
five months after the end of each fiscal year.
D. Economic Justification
4.23     For purposes of economic evaluation, the investment program has
been defined more broadly than the project proper, and includes: (a) in-
frastructure for the tourism zones and the towns of Loreto and San Jose
del Cabo, including the development of the airports and social infrastruc-
ture for the local population, such as health and civic centers, schools,
and marketplaces; (b) superstructure facilities, including the first pilot
hotels financed by the project, the commercial center, the golf club, and
other common facilities; (c) community development expenditures, invest-
ment promotion, technical assistance, and studies; and (d) hotels, apartels,



- 26 -
condominia, villas, as well as restaurants and other tourism facilities
not financed under the proposed project.
4.24     The basic assumption of the economic analysis is that the project
would lead to the establishment of more tourism capacity in Mexico than if
it were not undertaken. This incremental capacity will accommodate some
tourists who would not otherwise come to the country. It will also divert
some tourists, Mexicans as well as foreigners, from making expenditures
elsewhere in Mexico. Deductions have therefore been made from the benefit
and cost streams to reflect diversion of receipts (and variable operating
costs) from other tourism facilities in Mexico.
4.25     The more rapid expansion of capacity due to the project would also
have the effect of reducing, at least temporarily, the prices charged by
other Mexican hotels, compared with the "without the project" case. These
reductions have not been quantified, and are assumed to be compensated by
similarly unquantified external benefits of the project. These consist of
two main types. Firstly, some of the tourists who are induced to visit
Mexico by the unique attractions of Baja California, will go on to visit
other areas to the benefit of those areas and the Mexican domestic air-
lines. Secondly, the project will permit higher rates of utilization of
existing tourism capacity in Baja California which has been insufficient
to justify the minimum critical transport and marketing efforts necessary
to launch a large tourism area.
4.26     The failure to quantify some of the above issues is not meant to
deny their importance. But existing data are insufficient to give rise to
reasonable expectations that even quite elaborate quantitative analyses of
them would materially improve the design of the project.  The project makes
provision for studies designed to improve the collection of information,
and to provide a careful analysis of some of the more important investment
policy issues affecting the whole tourism sector, including sectoral growth
targets, policies on taxation and pricing of tourism services, and sectoral
investment criteria.  The results of these studies and the appropriate
actions to be taken would be reviewed with the Bank.
Gross Benefits
4.27     The gross benefits of the project would then be expenditures by
visitors accommodated in Loreto and San Jose del Cabo (paras. 4.08 and
4.09), duly corrected for demand diversions, and the receipts from purchase
of villas, condominium and apartel units by foreigners, plus the rental
value to Mexican owners when they use these facilities. Demand diversion
is estimated to be felt for only a two- to three-year period after accom-
modation capacity expands and to affect 40% of the revenues from foreign
visitors to Loreto, 60% to San Jose del Cabo, and 75% of the revenues from
Mexican visitors to both Loreto and San Jose del Cabo.  In the urban areas,
gross benefits generated by the project would consist of revenues from sale
of urbanized lots plus the rental value of housing units built by the
poorest sections of the population accommodated in the semi-urbanized lots.
In both the urban and tourism areas, revenues from the electricity, tele-
phone, and water and sewerage components of the project would come from
tariffs charged to the incremental users of these facilities. Gross bene-



- 27 -
fits generated by the airports would consist of landing and parking fees,
rent from commercial space leased, and the sale of other services.
4.28     Villas, condominia, and apartels in the project areas will typi-
cally be used by the owner for a few weeks each year, and rented the re-
maining part of the year. In addition to the gross benefits generated
when rented to visitors, these units will generate gross benefits to the
Mexican economy. The actual purchase price of these units by foreigners
has been included as part of the gross benefits with the net financial
returns to the owners treated as a cost. Selling prices are projected to
range from US$30,000 for a two-bedroom condominium to US$45,000 for a
three-bedroom villa, significantly lower than actual sale prices of such
units in other parts of Mexico. The purchase of these units by Mexicans
and the net financial returns they receive have been treated as transfers
and are not incorporated in the economic analysis. However, the use of
the facilities by the Mexican owners (about a month a year) is treated as
a benefit at a price equal to the room tariff (or rental value). No rent-
al values for foreigners are included.
4.29     All indirect taxes paid by Mexicans who would have traveled abroad
without the project and those paid by foreign visitors to the project areas
have been included in the gross benefits stream. No direct taxes, however,
have been included.
Costs
4.30     Total capital costs associated with the project (excluding replace-
ment costs) amount to US$112.4 million in Loreto and US$100.5 million in
San Jose del Cabo. The cost of a few components such as the studies, health
clinics and marketplaces, amounting to 27. of total project costs have been
excluded from the analysis, on the assumption that their benefits equal
their costs. The capital costs of constructing the airports and the tele-
communications system are included as project costs, but the benefits
directly generated by these investments have been excluded. With regard to
the airports, revenues (excluding departure taxes) would cover operating
costs with little surplus generated. The telecommunications components
will be a small part of an integrated network; no information is available
on marginal operating and investment costs, although as a whole the returns
on the telephone company's investment have been traditionally high. The
exclusion of net benefits on telecommunications, therefore, lends a conser-
vative bias to the rate of return calculations.
4.31     In addition to the capital costs of the proposed project, the eco-
nomic analysis includes the cost of hotels, apartels, villas, and other
superstructure facilities. Average economic investment costs for hotels
have been estimated at US$24,000 per room, for apartels US$18,000, and for
villas and condominia at US$11,000 per room, excluding the cost of land,
and interest during construction. Additional investments that are likely
to take place in local transportation, shops, and restaurants have also
been taken into account. All relevant investment costs associated with the
project are summarized separately for each area as follows:



- 28 -
Table 7: Investment Costs for Project Areas
Loreto      S.J. del Cabo          Total
Item                   (US$ M.      %)  (US$ M.      %)  (US$ M.        %)
Hotels, Apartels, Villas
and Condominia              75.45    67.1   73.45    73.1  148.90   69.9
Shops, Restaurants, and
other Facilities             8.45      7.5   11.30    11.2   19.75    9.3
Infrastructure Facilities    28.50    25.4   15.79    15.7   44.29   20.8
Total                      112.40   100.0  100.54   100.0  212.94  100.0
4.32     Infrastructure represents about a fourth of the total project costs
in Loreto and less than a fifth in San Jose del Cabo.  This is a lower pro-
portion than in similar projects elsewhere and reflects the fact that large
investments in infrastructure have already been made in the area.
4.33     The projected operating costs for the facilities have been taken
from financial statements drawn up for each component and deducted from
gross benefits to arrive at net benefits. Given Mexico's unemployment of
unskilled labor, wages for unskilled workers have been shadowpriced at 75%
of their market wages.
Rates of Return
4.34     Separate rates of return are calculated for each project area.
(Although it is arithmetically possible to calculate separate rates of re-
turn for the tourism and urban elements of the project, the necessarily
arbitrary allocation of costs to each element would yield arbitrary re-
sults). On the basis of the above described assumptions and with an esti-
mated economic life of 30 years, the internal economic rate of return on
the investments in Loreto would be 19% and in San Jose del Cabo 21%. The
discounted flow of costs and revenues (at a 10% discount rate) are US$340
million and US$420 million in Loreto, and US$290 million and US$370 million
in San Jose del Cabo. The sensitivity rate of return to changes in key
variables is shown in Table 8, on page 29, The rate of return would be par-
ticularly sensitive to changes in operating costs and prices. However, the
risk of operating costs increasing more than 10%, with no parallel increases
in revenues is considered small. Similarly, a fall in prices (revenues)
over the life of the project is considered unlikely. Because of the infra-
structure facilities already available, the project is feasible even if
only 75% of the revenue-earning superstructure facilities are implemented.
The "best estimate" rate of return does not include the proportion of the
project revenues which are considered non-incremental, as explained in
para. 4.25. Such revenues are generated by visitors who would come to
Mexico even without the project and thus represent demand diverted from else-
where in Mexico. The rate of return calculations are not too sensitive to
changes in the proportion of non-incremental total revenues.



- 29 -
Table 8: Sensitivity Tests (in %)
Loreto     San Jose del Cabo
Best Estimate                               18.7              20.6
Changes
Investment Costs    +10%                 17.3              19.0
+20%                15.9              17.6
Operating Costs      +20%                13.1              15.1
+10%                16.1              17.9
-10%                21.3              23.1
Prices (revenues)   +10%                 21.9              25.1
-10%                14.2              16.0
One Year's Delay in Project
Implementation                       16.1              17.0
Only 75% of Superstructure
Constructed                          16.2              17.8
No Shadow Pricing of
Unskilled Labor                      17.2              18.9
4.35     The proposed project and related investments are expected to in-
crease Mexico's gross foreign exchange revenues from tourism by US$34 mil-
lion in 1982 and by US$110 million a year from 1990 onwards. Because the
projects are located near the US and in a duty free area, imports would
be higher than in the rest of Mexico. Nevertheless, net foreign exchange
earnings in the year 1990 would amount to about US$84 million. This com-
pares with the estimated foreign exchange component of the proposed pro-
ject of US$42 million, of the total program of US$158 million and the
gross foreign earnings of tourism as a whole in Mexico of US$800 million
in 1975.
4.36     The direct employm9nt created by the proposed facilities is esti-
mated to be around 12,000.1   In addition, an estimated 13,000 jobs would
be generated by the investments in sectors such as handicraft production,
food processing and transportation. Unskilled labor would fill more than
60% of the jobs created. Some 40% of the jobs could be filled by women.
4.37     The Government would benefit both directly and indirectly from
the investments in the project area. In addition to the revenues earned
by government agencies involved in the project, such as FONATUR and the
utility companies, the Government would capture revenues through an air-
1/ The project's investment cost per man-year of direct employment gene-
rated is US$1,800, with both investments and employment streams being
discounted at 10%. This figure compares favorably with the urban
poverty lending "benchmark" for Mexico on employment generation grounds.



- 30 -
port tax and a 4% sales tax and direct taxes paid by commercial enter-
prises. The estimated incremental accumulated cash flow (excluding the
Bank loan, which is considered untied to the project, and FONATUR's hotel
lending operations) accruing to the Government is estimated to be US$31
million in the tenth year of project operation and US$124 million in the
fifteenth. The internal rate of return on the Government's cash flow is
over 20%.
4.38     Around 36% of the project's net financial benefits generated in
the two areas would be captured by the Government and 27% by unskilled
labor, with the remainder accruing to owners of hotels, shops, restaurants
and other facilities.
E. Social Aspects
4.39     Mexico has welcomed foreign tourists for many decades.  Because
of its close ties with the US, whose influence has been strongly felt
through mass media, education, consumer products, and large numbers of
visitors, the project as such is not likely to affect the value systems of
the local population in scope or direction other than those already occur-
ring in the present day Mexican society. The influx of tourists who have
come to enjoy Mexico's music, folkloric dances, handicrafts, archaeologi-
cal sites, and remnants of a colonial past, have in fact brought about a
stronger and deeper appreciation among Mexicans of their cultural heritage.
However, to bypass the local population while developing facilities for
foreign tourists could cause severe problems, as has been witnessed in
both Mexico and the nearby Caribbean.
4.40     Drawing on FONATUR's experience in Cancun and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo,
the project in Baja California provides a major, rational means of inte-
grating tourism and urban development. Socio-economic surveys of the ex-
isting towns (already complete as part of the project preparation exercise)
and special provisions for the existing and new population in the project
areas, have resulted in a plan which shows the Government's concern for
the effects of tourism and rapid urban growth on the local population.
4.41     Implementation of the project would mean the creation of employ-
ment opportunities and a resulting increase in population in the project
areas. The population in Loreto and San Jose del Cabo, which are basical-
ly rural communities, is expected to grow from about 3,000 to about 25,000
in each town in less than ten years. Although the planned rate of growth
of tourism facilities is based on market projections and financial-econom-
ic criteria, and not on the social "carrying capacity" of the population,
the project attempts to anticipate the stress resulting from the fast
growth in population and makes provisions that would attempt to solve
these problems. This is unusual for major investments in any sector and
increases both the project preparation efforts and financial resources re-
quired. Aside from increased employment and income, the population in the
towns under the project would benefit from improved and expanded infra-
structure facilities as well as facilities such as parks, plazas, and mar-
ketplaces, all to be provided in the context of a well designed urban
plan. Social services include day-care centers for working mothers,
schools, and health clinics. Training centers to be provided would permit



- 31 -
local residents to learn a new trade or improve their present skill levels.
The ejido members would benefit from monetary compensation for land ex-
propriated, and from revenues and employment in tourism ventures owned and
managed by them. Those with steady jobs and incomes would have the oppor-
tunity to purchase developed lots and qualify for assistance under current
federal housing programs. For the newly arrived or the jobless, the pro-
ject offers temporary accommodation as well as housing lots with some mini-
mal infrastructure connections. For those who wish to build modest shelters,
construction materials would be sold at cost, and technical assistance
would be available.
4.42     In order to minimize any adverse impact, FONATUR, as part of pro-
ject preparation, has assembled a community development team to handle day-
to-day problems. This team will ease the transition from rural settle-
ments to modern urbanized centers and will also provide avenues for local
participation in the planning decisions. Assurances have been obtained
that FONATUR will, through this team, assist migrant workers and the poorer
sections of the population by, among other things, providing land, techni-
cal assistance, and construction materials at cost for building houses.
4.43     Loreto (a more cohesive, more rural community), is probably bet-
ter equipped to adapt to the new environment and take advantage of its
opportunities than San Jose del Cabo, because Loreto's stronger social
structure will provide its inhabitants with support and will enable the
community as such to cope with changes. At present, both communities fa-
vor tourism as a means for earning or increasing their incomes. It will
be up to the community development team, however, to further this positive
feeling and guide the population toward realistic expectations of, and
pride in, being a host and support community for tourism.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During loan negotiations, agreement was reached and assurances
were obtained on the following major points:
(i)   With the Government:
(a) that the project areas would receive adequate
airline, water supply, power, telecommunica-
tions, education, training and health services
(paras. 3.44, 3.46, 3.49, 4.07);
(b) that land use and zoning regulations would be
adopted to control development on land imme-
diately surrounding the project areas
(para. 3.46);
(c) that all necessary action would be taken to
ensure the construction and operation of 750
hotel rooms in each of the project areas in
addition to the pilot hotels being financed
under the project (para. 4.11); and



- 32 -
(d) that investments in the water supply and
sewerage systems would be fully recovered
and that charges would be sufficient to
cover operation and maintenance costs and
the financing of minor expansion (para.
(para. 4.17).
(ii)  With FONATUR:
(a) that the Bank would be consulted on the
results of the wildlife conservation,
coastal zone water management, and market
and economic studies and the appropriate
actions to be taken (paras. 3.14, 4.26);
(b) that final designs, plans, specifications
and regulations for the project, including
the pilot hotels, would be submitted to
the Bank for approval (paras. 3.25, 3.34,
3.48, 3.50);
(c) that improved financial reporting formats
would be adopted and the relevant reports
sent to the Bank (para. 4.22);
(d) that the Bank would be consulted on the
financial and operating policies for the
proposed project (para. 4.15); and
(e) that assistance would be given to migrant
workers and the poorer sections of the
population (para. 4.42).
5.02     The satisfactory establishment of the trust funds for the develop-
ments envisaged in Loreto and San Jose del Cabo (para. 3.43), will be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
5.03     Subject to the condition of effectiveness described above, the
proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$42 million equivalent to Nacional Financiera, S.A., acting for and with
the guarantee of the Government, for a period of 17 years, including a
grace period of 3-1/2 years.



ANNEX I
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
The attached tables contain project estimates and schedules
of expenditures and disbursements. These tables and schedules are listed
below:
1. Breakdown of Total Project Cost by Major Project Items and Areas
2.  Project Cost Estimates - Loreto Tourism Area
3.  Project Cost Estimates - Town of Loreto
4.  Project Cost Estimates - Town of San Jose del Cabo and Tourism Area
5.  Project Cost Estimates - 250-Room Pilot Hotels (2)
6.  Project Cost Estimates - Loreto and San Jose del Cabo Airports
7.  Schedule of Expenditures by Year and Quarter
8. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9. Contingency Allowances



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Breakdown of Total Project Cost
(in US$ 000)
Land     Civil    Equip-    Consultant Community Pre-Opening                  Project  Total
Acquisition Works    ment         Services   Developm.  Expenses   Promotion  Admin.  Cost
1.  Loreto Tourism Area                3,518      7,382    2,503          816                     363         500    1,404   16,486
2.  Town of Loreto                       854      5,366       717         487          211        221                    723    8,579
3.  Loreto Pilot Hotel                            3,423    1,239          373                     241                           5,276
4.  Loreto Airport                       100      4,636    1,116          460                                                   6,312
(Sub-Total)                   (4,472)  (20,807)  (5,575)       (2,136)        (211)      (825)        (500)  (2,127) (36,653)
5.  Town of San Jose del Cabo
and Tourism Area                2,010      6,393    2,274           783          211        316         500    1,275   13,762
6.  San Jose Pilot Hotel                          3,423    1,239          373                     241                           5,276
.7.  San Jose Airport                              1,962    1,116          246                                                   3,324
(Sub-Total)                   (2,010)  (11,778)  (4,629)       (1,402)        (211)      (557)        (500)  (1,275) (22,362)
8.  Market and Economic Study                                             400                                                      400
Baseline Cost                      6,482    32,585   10,204         3,938          422      1,382       1,000    3,402   59,415
Contingencies:
Physical Increase (10.7%)                     4,138    1,529                                                                5,667
Price Increase 1/ (35.6%)                    12,625    2,718        1,231          124        641         402    1,123   18,864
(Total Contingencies)                      (16,763)  (4,247)      (1,231)         (124)      (641)       (402)  (1,123) (24,531)
TOTAL COST                         6,482    49,348   14,451         5,169          546      2,023       1,402    4,525   83,946
Foreign Exchange Component
Percentage                                 53.7      85.0         23.2         16.5                   87.8      15.8      50.0
Total                                    26,483   12,282        1,200            90                  1.231       714   42,000
1/   Price Increase         Civil Works        Equipment
1976                   14%               10%                                                                     < 3
1977                   12%                8%
1978                   12%                8%
1979                   12%                8%
1980                   10%                 7%
December 1976



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
LORETO TOURISM AREA
(in US$ 000)
Civil Works               Equipment                 Total Cost                            Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreig"  Total    Year-I  Year+I  Year+II  Year+III  Year+IV
BID PACKAGES
1.  Earthworks & storm drainage         340     590      930                                340      590      930               262      329        245         94
2.  Electricity (headworks)             429   1,179   1,608       103      584      687     532   1,763   2,295                  608     855        631        201
3.  Electricity & street lighting
(installation)             32     161      193       43      240     283       75      401     476                118      186        137         35
4.  Telecommunications 1/               214      820   1,034      102      578      680     316   1,398   1,714                  446      649        478        141
5.  Water supply (head works)           171       93      264       6       35       41      177     128      305                 84      111         82         28
6.  Other infrastructure                714      801   1,515       32      184      216      746     985   1,731                 476     626        463,        166
7.  Golf course                          28      106     134       40      231     271       68      337      405                 99     161        117          28
8.  Environmental sanitation             14       17      31        6       25       31       20      42       62                 16       24         17          5
9.  Buildings                           719      806   1,525       45      249      294     764   1,055   1,819                 497      661        490         171
10.  Wildlife conservation                70       78      148                                 70      78      148                 42       52         39         15
(Sub-Total)                  (2,731) (4,651) (7,382)   (377) (2,126) (2,503) (3,108) (6,777) (9,885)                  (2,648) (3,654)   (2,699)        (884)
ACTIVITIES:
1.  Promotion                                                                                 61     439      500                         200        200        100
2.  Pre-Opening activities                                                                  363               363                                    272         91
3.  Project administration                                                               (1,182)   (222) (1,404)       (140)   (282)   (421)        (421)      (140)
(a) headquarters                                                                        591      222     813         90     155      244        244         80
(b) field office                                                                        591               591        50     127      177        177         60
4.  Consulting Services:                                                                    (672)   (144)   (816)      (296)   (322)    (99)         (99)
(a) final design                                                                        420       74     494        296      198
(b) supervision                                                                         252       45      297                99       99         99
(c) special studies                                                                               25       25                 25
(Sub-Total)                                                                       (2,278)   (805) (3,083)      (436)   (604)   (720)        (992)      (331)
Baseline Cost                                                                         5,386   7,582  12,968         436   3,252   4,374       3,691       1,215
Contingencies:                   (1,355) (2,355) (3,710)   (147)   (832)   (979) (2,312) (3,481) (5,793)            (35)   (959) (1,920)    (2,085)        (794)
Physical increase                365     657   1,022        56      319     375      421      976   1,397                 373     518        383         123
Price increase                   990   1,698   2,688        91      513     604   1,891   2,505   4,396           35     586   1,402       1,702        671
(4,086) (7,006)(11,092)    (524) (2,958) (3,482)
Land acquisition                                                                      3,518   _         3,518    1.267   1.145   1.106
TOTAL COST                                                                11,216  11.063  22,279    1,738   5,356   7,400           5,776      2,009
1/ not to be financed by the Loan
December 1976



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
TOWN OF LORETO
(in US$ 000)
Civil Works                Equipment                 Total Cost                             Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Year-i  Year+l  Year+II  Year+III  Year+IV
BID PACKAGES
1.  FONATUR's administration
buildings & housing               190      190      380        2       13       15      192     203      395                395
2.  Earthworks & infrastructure
works                           1,658   1,660   3,318         21      119      140   1,679   1,779   3,458                  968   1,232          915        343
3.  Electricity (headworks)                                         35      198      233       35      198      233                 53       97         71          12
4.  Electricity & street lighting
(installations)                   107      605      712                                107      605      712                201      252        187          72
5.  Telecommunications 1/                 49     148      197       27      151      178       76      299      375                 96      144        106         29
6.  Environmental sanitation              16       15      31        4       27       31       20       42       62                 16       24         17           5
7.  Buildings                           364      364      728       19      101      120      383      465      848                232      308        227         81
(Sub-Total)                   (2,384) (2,982) (5,366)    (108)   (609)   (717) (2,492) (3,591) (6,083)                  (1,961) (2,057)   (1,523)         (542)
ACTIVITIES:
1.  Community development                                                                     176       35      211       18        53       64         76
2.  Pre-Opening activities                                                                    221               221                                    166          55
3.  Project administration:                                                                  (609)   (114)   (723)       (72)     (145)    (217)      (217)        (72)
(a) headquarters                                                                         217      114      331       43        67        99         99         23
(b) field office                                                                         392               392       29         78      118        118         49
4.  Consulting services                                                                      (414)     (73)   (487)   (182)       (183)     (61)       (61)
(a) final design                                                                         231        73     304      182        122
(b) supervision                                                                          183               183                  61       61         61
(Sub-Total)                                                                        (1,420)    (222) (1,642)    (272)      (381)    (342)       (520)      (127)
Baseline Cost                                                                           3,912   3,813   7,725       272    2,342   2,399         2,043        669
Contingencies:                   (1,154) (1,457) (2,611)    (43)       (244)   (287) (1,679) (1,770) (3,449)         (71)     (676) (1,059)    (1,193)        (450)
Physical increase                332      41B      750      16        91      107     348      509      857                 265      296        219         77
Price increase                   822   1,039   1,861        27       153      180   1,331   1,261   2,592         71       411       763        974        373
(3,538) (4,439) (7,977)  (151)       (853) (1,004)
Land acquisition                                                                          854               854      308       278      268
TOTAL COST                                                                  6.445   5.583  12,028         651    3,296   3,726        3,236      1,119
1/  not to be financed by the Loan
December 1976                                                                                                                                                                    Fl



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
TOWN OF SAN JOSE DEL CABO AND TOURISM AREA
(in US$ 000)
Civil Works                Equipment                Total Cost                             Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Year-1  Year+l  Year+II  Year+III  Year+IV
BID PACKAGES:
1.  FONATUR's administration
buildings & housing              119      118      237        4      24      28       123      142     265                265
2.  Earthworks & storm drainage         308     307      615                                308      307      615                173     218       162         62
3.  Electricity (headworks)              14      41       55       75      422     497       89      463      552                128     226       165          33
4.  Electricity & street lighting
(installations)                   83      331      414      42      234      276      125     565      690                179      262       193         56
5. Telecommunications 1/                 94     285      379      116      657      773     210      942   1,152                 282     456       334          80
6.  Water supply (headworks)             68      68      136                                 68       68      136                 38      48        36          14
7.  Other infrastructure             1,638   1,148   2,786         72     410      482   1,710   1,558   3,268                  895   1,187        879        307
8.  Environmental sanitation             34      34       68       10       58      68       44       92      136                 34       52        39         11
9.  Buildings                           778     875   1,653        22      128     150      800   1,003   1,803                  500     647       480         176
10.  Wildlife conservation                25       25      50                                 25       25       50                 14       18        13          5
(Sub-Total)                  (3,161) (3,232) (6,393)   (341) (1,933) (2,274) (3,502) (5,165) (8,667)                  (2,508) (3,114)  (2,301)        (744)
ACTIVITIES:
1.  Community development                                                                   176       35      211        18       53       64        76
2.  Promotion                                                                                61      439      500                         200       200        100
3.  Pre-Opening activities                                                                  316               316                                   237         79
4.  Project administration:                                                              (1,074)   (201) (1,275)       (112)   (269)   (383)       (383)      (128)
(a) headquarters                                                                        538      201      739        74      147     222       222          74
(b) field office                                                                        536               536        38      122     161       161          54
5.  Consulting services:                                                                   (589)   (194)   (783)       (260)   (349)    (87)        (87)
(a) final design                                                                        329      104      433       260      173
(b) supervision                                                                         260               260                86       87        87
(c) special studies                                                                               90       90                 90
(Sub-Total)                                                                       (2,216)   (869) (3,085)      (390)   (671)   (734)       (983)      (307)
Baseline Cost                                                                         5,718   6,034  11,752         390   3,179   3,848    3,284         1,051
Contingencies:                   (1,563) (1,566) (3,129)   (133)   (752)   (885) (2,456) (2,632) (5,088)            (99)   (881) (1,606)  (1,819)         (683)
Physical increase               442      425      867       52      289     341      494      714   1,208                 321     449        331        107
Price increase                1,121   1,141   2,262         81     463      544   1,962   1,918   3,880           99      560   1,157    1,488          576
(4,724) (4,798) (9,522)   (474) (2,685) (3,159)
Land acquisition                                                                      2,010   _____        1        718      646      646     __
TOTAL COST                                                                10.184   8.666  18,850    1,207   4,706   6,100    5,103            1,734
1/  not to be financed by the Loan
December 1976



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
250-ROOM PILOT HOTELS (2)
(in US$ 000)
Civil Works                Equipment                Total Cost                             Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Year-1  Year+l  Year+II  Year+III  Year+IV
BID PACKAGES:
1.  Buildings & external works        3,365  3,054    6,419                               3,365   3,054   6,419                        2,696    2,978          745
2.  Electrical, mechanical &
hydraulic installations           144    118       262      157     891   1,048       301   1,009   1,310                          189    1,091          30
3.  Furniture, fixtures &
special equipment                  91     74       165      215   1,215   1,430       306   1,289   1,595                          176    1,399          20
(Sub-Total)                  (3,600) (3,246)  (6,846)   (372) (2,106) (2,478) (3,972) (5,352) (9,324)                          (3,061)  (5,468)       (795)
ACTIVITIES:
1.  Pre-Opening activities                                                                  482               482                                              482
2.  Consulting services:                                                                    (634)   (112)   (746)               (466)   (140)    (140)
(a) design                                                                              354      112     466                466
(b) supervision                                                                         280              280                         140       140
(Sub-Total)                                                                       (1,116)   (112) (1,228)               (466)   (140)      (140)      (482)
Baseline Cost                                                                         5,088   5,464  10,552                  466   3,201    5,608       1,277
Contingencies:                   (1,918) (L,728) (3,646)   (176)   (998) (1,174) (2,568) (2,772) (5,340)                    (190) (1,345)  (3,269)        (536)
Physical increase               360      324      684       56     316      372      416      640   1,056                         315       661         80
Price increase                1,558   1,404   2,962        120     682      802   2,152   2,132   4,284                  190   1,030    2,608          456
(5,518) (4,975)(10,493)    (547) (3,104) (3,651)                                            _    _
TOTAL COST                                                                  7,656   8,236  15,892                  656   4,546    8,877        1,813
December 1976
ebI., 



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
LORETO AND SAN JOSE DEL CABO AIRPORTS
(in US$ 000)
Civil Works                Equipment                Total Cost                              Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Year-1  Year+I   Year+II   Year+III  Year+IV
BID PACKAGES:
(a)  Loreto Airport            (2,405) (2,231) (4,636)   (167)   (949) (1,116) (2,572) (3,180) (5,752)                             (2,667)   (3,085)
1.  Maneuvering areas                1,337   1,337   2,674                               1,337   1,337   2,674                          1,136      1,538
2.  Terminal buildings                 962      788   1,750       25      142      167     987      930   1,917                            848     1,069
3.  Fuel storage & supply              106      106     212       16       91      107     122      197      319                           157        162
4.  Visual aids and electrical
supply                                                      76     432      508       76     432      508                           317        191
5.  Navigational aids & comunica-
tions                                                       50     284      334       50     284      334                           209        125
(b) San Jose del Cabo Airport  (806) (1,156) (1,962)   (167)   (949) (1,116)   (973) (2,105) (3,078)                               (1,531)   (1,547)
6.  Terminal buildings                 700   1,050   1,750        25      142      167     725   1,192   1,917                             848      1,069
7.  Fuel storage & supply              106      106     212       16       91      107     122      197      319                           157        162
8.  Visual aids & electrical
supply                                                      76     432      508       76      432     508                           317         191
9.  Navigational aids & communi-
cations                                                     50      284     334       50      284      334                           209        125
(Sub-Total)                (3,211) (3,387) (6,598)   (334) (1,898) (2,232) (3,545) (5,285) (8,830)                             (4,198)   (4,632)
Consulting Services:                                                                  (706)             (706)              (441)      (132)      (133)
(a) final design                                                                       441              441                441
(b) supervision                                                                        265               265                           132        133
Baseline Cost                                                                        4,251   5,285   9,536                 441      4,330      4,765
Contingencies:                  (1,788) (1,879) (3,667)   (138)   (784)   (922) (2,094) (2,663) (4,757)                     (69)   (1,833)    (2,855)
Physical increase              399      416      815       50      284     334      449      700   1,149                           554         595
Price increase               1,389   1,463   2,852         88      506     588   1,645   1,963   3,608                    69     17,279     2,260
Land acquisition                (4,999) (5,266)(10,265)    (472) (2,682) (3,154)    100                  100        40       30         30
(at Loreto)
TOTAL COST                                                                6,445   7,948  14,393          40      540      6,193      7,620
December 1976



MEXIC0:  BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJE8T
Schedule of Expenditures bv Year and Ouarter
(in US.S 000)
Year  I                                                                    Year + I                                   Year + I                          Year + IV
Q. I             2       QS 0 2                                   Q. 6       2t7   4 =                 5          O. 60  0.1D1    Q.12          .13 Q                        Total
LOREIO CCgPi3ZX
Lan4 Acquiesfion                808       807       364        363        363        363        351        351        351        351                                                                                4.472
Civil Works                                       1,263      1,264     1,264      1,264      2,849      2,850      2,850      2,850      3,072      3,o03      3,072      3,072      1,559      1,275              31,577
Equiprent                                           473        474                              728        728       728        729        939        939        939        939         151       122               7,8S9
Consulting Services             274       275       324        325        325        324        112        112        112       112        124        125        125        125                                     2,794
Counity Deveaop,ant               5        14        15         15         15         16         21         21         21         21        27         28          27         27                                      273
Pro,aotion                                                                                       64         65        65         65         72          73         73         72         84         68                701
Pre-Opening Activities                                                                                                                     246        247         247        246   -   123         100              1,209
Project Admintatration          142       142       130        130        130        130        207        207       207        207        232        232         233       232        157         128              2,S46
(Sub-Total)               (1,229)  (1,238)  (2,569)   (2,571)   (2.097)   (2,097)   (4,332)   (4,334)   (4,334)   (4,335)   (4,712)   (4,717)   (4,716)   (4,713)   (2,074)   (1,693)                          (51,761)
So Jos0  DEL CjO_a ELEX
Land Acquisition                359       359       161        161        162        162        162        162        161        161                                                                                 2,010
Civil Work4                                         644        644        644        645     1,611      1,611      1,611      1,612      1,752      1,753      1,753      1,752        956         783             17,771
2quipest                                            339        340                              591        591        592       592        831        832        832        832         104         86              6,562
CDnoulting Services             173       173       242        243        243        242         68         68         68         68        70          71         71         71                                    1.871
Comnutty Development              5        14        15         15         15         16         21         21         21         21        27          28         27         27                                       273
Promotion                                                                                        64         65         65         65         72         73         73         72         84         68                 701
Pr.-Opming Activities                                                                                                                      173        174         174        173         66         54                 814
Prejact iskinlatration           69        70        74         74         74         75        123        124        124        124        138        139        139        139        106         87               1,679
(Sub-Totat)                (606)    (616)  (1,475)   (1,477)   (1,138)   (1,140)   (2,640)   (2,642)   (2,642)   (2,643)   (3,063)   (3,070)   (3,069)   (3,066)   (1,316)   (1,078)                          (31,6817
TOURISM MA,T STUDY                                                         58         58         97         97         97         97                                                                                   504
Total Expenditures p.Q.       1,835    1,854    4,044        4,048      3,293      3,295      7,069      7,073      7,073      7,075     7,775      7,787      7,785       7,779      3,390      2,771               3
Total Erpenditures p.Y.                 3,689                                    14,680                                      28,290                                       31,126                 6,161
Cuwzative p.Y.                          3,689                                     18,369                                     46,659                                       77,785                83,946
Decaeber 1976



ANNEX I
Table 8
MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Forecast of Disbursements
(in US$ 000)
Implementation                 Disbursements                   Undisbursed Balances
Quarter         Quarterly Percent Cumulative Percent         Quarterly Percent
First Year:  Q. 1                                                   42,000   100.0
Q. 2      1,266    3.0        1,266     3.0           40,734    97.0
Q. 3      1,905    4.5        3,171      7.5          38,829    92.5
Q. 4      1,937    4.6        5,108    12.1           36,892    87.9
Second Year: Q. 5       1,660    4.0        6,768    16.1           35,232    83.9
Q. 6      3,707    8.8       10,475    24.9           31,525    75.1
Q. 7      3,710    8.8       14,185    33.7           27,815    66.3
Q. 8      3,849    9.2       18,034    42.9           23,966    57.1
Third Year:  Q. 9       3,912    9.3       21,946    52.2           20,054    47.8
Q.10      4,105    9.8       26,051    62.0           15,949    38.0
Q.l1      4,373   10.4       30,424    72.4           11,576    27.6
Q.12      4,339   10.3       34,763    82.7             7,237    17.3
Fourth Year: Q.13       4,108    9.8       38,871    92.5            3,129      7.5
Q.14      3,129    7.5       42,030   100.0                 0     0.0
TOTAL               42,000  100.0
February 1977






ANNEX I
Table 9
MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Contingency Allowances
(in US$ 000)
Land            Civil Works              Equipment          Consulting Services    Community Development  Pre-Opening        Promotion         Project Administration   Total Contingencies
Acquisition    Local Foreig   Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   Expenses   Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
TOTAL PROJECT COST
EXCLUDING CONTINGENCIES       6,482     15,087  17,498f  32,585   1,532   8,672  10,204   3,015    923   3,938    352      70    422       1,382       122    878  1,000   2,865       537   3,402  30,837  28,578  59,415
Percentage of Total           100.0       46.3   53.7  100.0   15.0   85.0  100.0   76.6   23.4  100.0   83.4   16.6  100.0                100.0      12.2   87.8  100.0    84.2    15.8  100.0    51.9   48.1  100.0
CONTINGENCIES
(a) Allowance for Probable
Price Increases:
(t)  Percentage                       39.0   38.5   38.7   26.6   26.6   26.6   31.6   30.0   31.3   29.5   28.6   29.4                 46.4      40.2   40.2   40.2    33.0    33.0   33.0    29.1   34.6   31.8
(ii) Amount                          5,880   6,745  12,625    407   2,311   2,718      954    277   1,231     104      20    124         641        49    353    402       946     177   1,123   8,981   9,883  18,864
(b) Allowances for Unforeseen
Factors:
(i) Percentage                        12.6   12.8   12.7   15.0   15.0   15.0                                                                                                                      6.9    12.4    9.5
(ii) Amount                          1,898   2,240   4,138     230  1,299   1,529                                                                                                                2,128       3,539   5,667
(c) Total Contingency
Allowances:
(M)  Percentage                       51.6   51.3   51.4   41.6   41.6   41.6   31.6   30.0   31.3   29.5   28.6   29.4                 46.4      40.2   40.2   40.2    33.0    33.0   33.0  :36.0    47.0   41.3
(ii) Amount                          7,778   8,985  16,763     637   3,610   4,247     954    277  1,231      104      20    124         641        49    353    402       946     177   1,123  11,109  13,422  24,531
(iii) Percentage of Total             46.3   53.7  100.0   15.0   85.0  100.0    77,5   22.5  100.0    83.9   16.1  100.0              100.0      12.2   87.8  0OO.O    84.2    15.8  100.0    45.3   54.7  1o0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST
INCLllDING CONTINGENCIEs    6,482       22,865  26,483  49,348   2,169 12,282  14,451   3,969  1,200   5,169       456     90    546       2,023       171   1,231  1,402   3,811      714  4,525  41,946  42,000  83,946
Percentage of Total         100.0         46.3   53.7  100.0   15.0   85.0  100.0   75.8   23.2  100.0    83.5   16.5  100.0               100.0      12.2   87.8  100.0    84.2    15.8  loo.o    50.0   50.0  100.0
December 1976






ANNEX II
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. General
1.        The project would consist of the following main elements:
For Loreto:
(a) infrastructure and other facilities for the tourist
zone at Nopolo, located 7.5 kms south of Loreto and
some minimal trailer park and other facilities at
nearby Puerto Escondido;
(b) a medium category 250-room hotel to be located at
Nopolo;
(c) infrastructure and other facilities for the exist-
ing town itself; and
(d) airport facilities.
For San Jose:
(a) infrastructure and other facilities for the town as
well as the adjacent tourism zone;
(b) a medium category 250-room hotel; and
(c) airport facilities.
2.        The project also makes provision for promotion, community develop-
ment activities and conservation programs for both areas. In addition, a
tourism market and economic study is included that would provide Mexico
with needed information on the sector as a whole. These components are
discussed in greater detail below, except the water supply, sewerage and
drainage systems, the airport facilities and the studies which are discussed
more fully in Annexes III, IV and X.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Loreto Tourism Zone and Puerto Escondido
3.        In the tourism zone (Nopolo), infrastructure in the first stage
will serve an accommodation program of 3,000 hotel and apartel rooms plus
655 condominium-type apartments and villas, along with recreation, community
and cultural facilities. The hotel and apartel accommodations have been
planned around a community and cultural "animation" center within the
primary hotel zone that would provide day and night activities for the
resort. Included in the project is the construction of a first 250-room
medium category hotel.
4.        A central pedestrian spine would run parallel to the beach giving
easy access to all the community facilities from the hotels.
A series of squares and plazas along the pedestrian way would form the
entrances to the hotel clusters. Thus a pedestrian town would be created
along the beach front in contrast to the traditional separate and individual
lots with no visual linkage except the road. The pedestrian spine would
serve as a visual link in which the tourist can move under cover of
vegetation and arcades.
5.        On the west side of the main boulevard, clusters of condominium
apartments and villas have been planned along with three apartel sites.
While there is flexibility in the plan in terms of size and shape of the
lots, the type of accommodation designated for each site has been selected
to permit optimum development of the land.
6.        Roads.  The hotel zone would be served by a main boulevard (2 km
long, 30 m wide, 4-lane) parallel to the beach, but set back 200 to 350
meters. The main entrance to the zone is located at the north end of the
site--nearest the airport--and provides direct access to the beach boulevard.
The boulevard ends in a cul-de-sac to the north and continues as a two-lane
road serving the southern end of the development. It connects to the main
highway to provide a secondary entrance.
7.        As part of the road infrastructure, an internal 2 km long, 18 m
wide, 2-lane loop road provides access to single family cluster housing,
condominium apartments and villas at the back of the site as well as a
tennis center and other recreational facilities. The system has been so
designed that the sites can be developed without tearing up the curbs and
gutters of the main road system. Landscaping and street lighting have been
included for the entire road network. The storm water drainage network
would be open channels, except for discharge structures.
8.        Power  uppl  and Distribution.  The Federal Electricity Commission
(CFE) builds anca operates`al1 the power supply and distribution
for the country. The project would require a new overhead transmis-
sion line to be constructed from Villa Constitucion to service the
projected demand of 12,000 kv. From the substation in Villa
Constitucion, 150 km away, a 115 kv transmission line with controls and



ANNEX II
Page 3
protection circuit breakers would be constructed under the project, with
conductors supported on concrete posts. A new substation would be
constructed at the town of Loreto, and electricity delivered to the tourism
zone via a 34.5 kv overhead transmission line. These headworks and
transmission lines from Villa Constitucion would take about 36 months to
construct. Work would be initiated in the first year and completed early
in the third year to serve the complex by early 1980.
9.        The local distribution for both Nopolo and Loreto would consist
of 34.5 kv overhead lines reduced to 220/127 volts by transformers to
service each lot. A total of 66 transformers would be provided along the
major boulevard from which underground service to individual sites would
be provided.
10.       Telecommunications.  Telecommunications in Mexico are built and
operated by TELMEX, a government owned agency. In Loreto, an integrated
system would be installed that would serve both the town and the tourism
zone until 1988. Under the project, a new exchange building will be built
and located in the town. The local exchange equipment would consist of
AFRm/6B multiplex equipment. One thousand lines on 60 circuits would be
provided to meet projected demand.
11.       The long distance circuits will be tied into the regional micro-
wave with 120 channels initially, 8 repeaters and 2 terminals. A booster
station to be constructed would include rectifiers, amplifiers, battery
cells and emergency equipment.
12.       The local distribution lines would be placed in underground
conduits. Initially 1,550 lines would be placed in service. In addition,
each hotel will be required to purchase their own PABX private exchange
which they will operate. The system will take about three years to install.
It is programmed for completion by early 1980.
13.       The entire system will be installed by one of the sister companies
of TELMEX: Teleconstrucciones, Contelmex or Cycxsa. TELMEX, the operating
agency will be charged for the costs of the installation and connection,
and TELMEX in turn will charge FONATUR.
14.       Recreational Facilities.  A community and cultural center would
be built under the project and would consist of an auditorium with a capacity
of 500 seats and a central plaza with space for shops, offices, cafes,
travel agencies, restaurants, banks, pharmacies, a post office and an
emergency health clinic. Adjacent to the center, a boat house and pier would
be constructed for safe and easy boarding of boats (motor and sail), for all
forms of aquatic sports as well as excursions. The pier would be constructed
of precast, reinforced concrete piling and cross ties with a treated wooden
deck, handrails and bumpers. Water and fuel service would be available at
the end of the pier from underground tanks.  A concessionaire would manage
the rental of all boats.



ANNEX II
Page 4
15.       Based on the oceanographic data and bathymetric surveys along
with configuration and orientation of the beach, a site has been earmarked
to provide year-round anchorage and protection for boats. Located at the
southern end of the complex the protection would come from a 60 m rocky
promontory.   Anchorage would be provided for 25 boats attached to mooring
buoys (fore and aft) and secured to a system of anchors below. A small
recreation center will be constructed for the beach area and would include
a restaurant, restrooms, changing rooms and parking facilities.
16.       A main recreation and landscape feature of the project is an
18-hole golf course, of which the first nine holes and clubhouse would be
constructed under the project. The clubhouse (with pro-shop, snack bar,
changing rooms and office) is a single structure and has been located at
the junction of the beach and main entrance boulevard. Equipment such as
golf carts and an irrigation system have also been included in this
component. The fairways have been designed to open up residential proper-
ties for condominium and villa development on both sides for maximum
exposure. The alignments of the fairways take advantage of the natural
vegetation and would need minimum grading. The course would be irrigated
by the treated effluent of the sewage lagoons located 2.5 km west from the
site. In this manner, the hydrological cycle would be complete. Only
natural storm drainage run-off would enter the sea. An ample site at the
southern end of the inner loop has been provided so that private interests
could develop a 16-lawn tennis club in a "park-like" setting along one of
the golf course fairways. On the other side of the transpeninsular highway,
land has been reserved for riding stables and a practice ring. Visitors
would be able to ride up into the spectacular gorges and escarpments of
the Sierra Range to enjoy the panoramic views of the surrounding region.
17.       Buildings.  A service building for fire and police would be built
under the project with adequate space for parking, storage, and maintenance
of equipment. This component also includes fire fighting and police vehicles
and equipment.
18.       Environmental Sanitation.  For the first three years of project
implementation, an environmental sanitation program would be undertaken
consisting largely of pest control. Areas infested with flies and mosquitoes
would be treated and measures will be taken to eliminate any source of
contamination. In a nearby small lagoon, top feeding minnows will be
introduced to control larvae population. Special controls will be maintained
around the area of the oxidation ponds and the sanitary landfill.
19.       Flood Protection.  Along the Primer Agua Creek, a protection wall
would be built under the project to avoid any flooding of the tourism zone.



ANNEX II
Page 5
C. The Town of Loreto
20.       Infrastructure and other facilities for the town of Loreto are
aimed at upgrading present living conditions of inhabitants and providing
for the expansion in population, which is projected to grow from 3,000 to
25,000 in about 10 years. For this purpose, 736 ha of land were expro-
priated, and an urban plan prepared.
21.       The urban plan calls for the redensification of the old town
to accommodate some of the increase in population. A large proportion of
the expanded population, however, would be accommodated in a new residen-
tial area. Because of aircraft flight lines and aircraft noise the new
district will be built 600 m west of the old town, with green areas and
parks separating the two. Under the project, parks, playgrounds, health
clinics, schools and shops would be built so as to ensure that newcomers
do not overload the present facilities. Offices for FONATUR personnel and
some staff housing will be built in the new residential area. FONATUR's
offices include offices for accounting, engineering, community development
and promotion activities. The offices will be furnished and personnel
provided with vehicles. Single family or cluster housing and apartments
in the new residential area would be financed through existing federal
housing programs.
22.       Roads.  A new 4-lane (1 ka long and 28 m wide) entrance road,
adequately lit and landscaped, would connect the transpeninsular highway
with the center of the town. Roadworks will also include construction of
a 16 km long street network to serve the new district and the upgrading
of existing streets in the old town.
23.       Electric Power.  The transmission line from Villa Constitucion
will also deliver electric power to the town of Loreto. The existing dis-
tribution system will be expanded with 34.5 kv overhead lines and will
include transformers and street lighting.
24.       Solid Waste Disposal.  A large solid waste disposal site has
been selected 5 km from town and would serve the needs of both the town and
the tourism zone. Equipment would include three covered garbage trucks
and one tractor to help the sanitary landfill process.
25.       Urban Renewal.  The central plaza in the old town would be
improved, paved and landscaped. A recreation beach facility would be
provided with snack bar and changing rooms to serve the town. Portions
of the old buildings around the plaza would be renovated.
26.       Other Facilities.  The area of the aircraft flight cone between
the old town and the new residential area has been reserved for recreation
facilities, cemeteries and other non-residential uses. Rigid height and
use restrictions would be applied to ensure the safety and welfare of



ANNEX II
Page 6
existing and future residents. A new wholesale market will be built mid-
point between the new residential area and the existing town. A nursery-
kindergarten for about 100 children would be built in the new district
for infants as well as pre-school children of working mothers. A new
health center would be built for the new residential area. Vocational
training in basic skills such as carpentry, electricity, plumbing, and
masonry, would be provided in a building located in the industrial zone.
The Mexican Institute for Social Security (IMSS) would equip and operate
the facility. At the far end of the industrial area, a slaughter house
would be built and equipped under the project. All the above facilities
would be provided in the first year and a half of the development program.
A boat ramp will be built at the edge of the "ejido" settlement on the
outskirts of the town of Loreto where boat repairs and maintenance would
be undertaken. Adequate space has been provided for the storage and
repairs of 25 boats. This activity if properly managed has the potential
of evolving into an important industry in the future.
27.       Sites and Services. To accommodate the poorer sections of the
population and the migrant worker seeking employment, 500 lots in three to
four locations distributed throughout the new residential area have been 2
planned.  A road would be constructed for access to each cluster of 150 m
lots.  Common water taps would be available along the road for every 15 to
20 houses.  Each lot would be provided with a graded site, and a simple toilet
in a utility structure. The houses would be built on a do-it-yourself
basis and in the future could be integrated into the town.  Power would be
available along the streets, along with street lighting. To facilitate
the construction of houses, the building materials for a two-room structure
would be provided by FONATUR at cost along with technical assistance and
supervision.
28.       Facilities for Puerto Escondido.  Puerto Escondido is a natural
sheltered harbor with a small hidden entrance. It is already popular with
tourists who come here with their boats and trailers. However, pollution
is increasing and threatens the beauty of the area. The water quality is
excellent, but the beach quality is inferior to Nopolo, although acceptable
for limited tourism activities. Most of the land is steep rocky slopes and
undevelopable in any major way. The harbor today serves as a yacht anchor-
age and can accommodate over 200 boats. At the entrance, a ferry boat
terminal was recently constructed. Ferry service to Guaymas on the mainland
will begin in the near future. The project provides for minor improvements
to a general commercial pier adjacent to the terminal to serve small cargo
vessels. A modest administrative building would be provided to control the
area. Along the inner harbor, a trailer park for 50 trailers and campers
would serve tourists coming by road. Minimum site work is required to
develop clustered campsites. Office, restaurant, shops, changing rooms
and bathing facilities have been included in the project. Water supply
would be provided from a nearby existing well. Sewage from the area would
be processed in a package treatment plant. It would be located inland from



ANNEX II
Page 7
the harbor and disposal of the effluent would be through leaching drain
fields. Power supply would come from a small diesel plant located at the
entrance to the area.
D. San Jose del Cabo
29.       The San Jose master plan calls for the integrated development of
the town and the tourism zone. Presently two kilometers apart, they will
be merged, with only a large hill that will visually separate the two.
Tourist facilities would be located at the west of a long beach that extends
for 10 kilometers. About 1,800 hectares have been expropriated for the
purpose.
30.       Infrastructure facilities will serve 3,150 hotel  and apartel
rooms and 305 condominium-type apartments and villas along with community,
cultural and recreation facilities. Like Loreto, the hotels and apartels
have been planned around a community and cultural center. The center is
linked to the beach by several plazas to facilitate pedestrian circulation.
In back of the primary hotel zone, apartments and villas are clustered around
common courts which form part of the pedestrian network. While there is
flexibility in the plan in terms of size and shape of the lots, the type of
accommodation designated for each lot has been selected to permit optimum
development of the land. Included in the project is the construction of a
first 250-room medium category hotel.
31.       Power Supply and Distribution.  At present, the area, including
the town of San Jose del Cabo, is served by a small diesel generating plant
located at Cabo San Lucas. To meet the increased demand for power, a
115 kv transmission line is under construction that would bring electric
power from large generating plants in La Paz. These works were scheduled
to be finished by March 1977. Under the project, the present substation
at San Jose will be expanded to meet projected urban and tourism needs.
Local distribution would be by 13.3 kv overhead lines. From the main
streets, service would be underground to each individual lot.
32.       Road Network.  The road network includes a main entrance boulevard
(4-lane, 1.6 km, 30 m wide) from the transpeninsular highway which borders
the western edge of the tourism area. This main boulevard is curvalinear
and forms a circuit around the "cultural center. A two-lane road extends
to the east to connect with the town's main street, along which the main
utility lines would run. The secondary roads would have cul-de-sacs that
could be extended in the future to connect with the town's street system.
Turnoffs and junctions have been provided for the residential clusters
and recreation facilities so that the sites can be developed without tearing
up the curbs and gutters of the main road system. Landscaping and street
lighting have been included for the entire network.



ANNEX II
Page 8
33.       Telecommunications.  The telephone system in San Jose del Cabo
has 125 lines which will be expanded under the project to 1,260. A new
exchange building would be built in the town. Local exchange equipment
would be installed in stages and consist of AFRm/6B type multiplex equip-
ment.
34.       The long distance circuits will be tied into the regional micro-
wave system and would have 120 channels with 6 repeaters. The booster
station facilities include rectifiers, amplifier battery cells, emergency
equipment of 50 kw and 15 tons of refrigeration. To meet projected demands,
1,040 local distribution lines would be constructed in underground conduits.
Each hotel would be required to purchase PABX exchange equipment. It
would take about two years to construct and install these facilities. As
in the case of Loreto, the system will be installed by one of TELMEX's
sister companies: Teleconstrucciones, Contelmex or Cycxsa. TELMEX, the
operating agency, will be charged for the costs of installation connection,
and in turn will charge FONATUR.
35.       Recreational and Other Facilities.  A community and cultural center
would be constructed in the first stage and would consist of an auditorium
(capacity 500) and a central plaza with space for shops, cafes, bars,
restaurants, banks, pharmacies, and a post office to provide the tourist
with essential as well as recreational services .
36.       Two small recreation centers have been planned for the beach area
and would contain a swimming pool, snack bar, a restaurant, toilets, chang-
ing rooms and parking. One located on the east side would serve primarily
the town population, while the second--in front of the cultural center--
would serve visitors to the tourism zone. Although not financed under the
project, space has been reserved for sport activities such as tennis and
handball, which will be developed by the private sector- Land has been
reserved at the base of the mountains for riding stables and a practice
ring. Visitors would be able to ride into the foothills for panoramic
views of San Jose del Cabo and the sea bevond.   South of the site,
at Punta Palmilla, a fishing pier and boat dock would be provided for deep-
sea sports fishing. Water and fuel service would be available and a small
boat house for storage of equipment. Adjacent to the pier a marine structure
would be provided to create a safe bathing area for visitors because during
certain periods the beach in front of the resort is unsafe.
37.       On the south side of the town between the fishing pier and the
tourism area a trailer park has been constructed, owned and operated by
"tejidatarios." Under the project, the park will be improved and FONATUR
plans to assist the "ejidatarios" to run the park.
38.       Urban Facilities.  The town of San Jose del Cabo is projected to
grow from about 4,000 to 25,000 by 1988. A new residential area will be
constructed near the existing town on the west side of the transpeninsular



ANNEX II
Page 9
highway. This area would accommodate 200 "ejidatario" families whose land
was expropriated and population of the lowest income category, including
migrant workers (500 lots). The level of urbanization would be minimal
with stabilized roads serving each lot of 150 m2. A common water tap, lo-
cated in the center of the hlock, would serve 10-heuses-. Each lot would be
graded and provided with a simple toilet. Power would be available along
the streets. To implement the aided self-help housing program, building
materials would be provided for each eligible person along with technical
assistance and supervision. In both neighborhoods, space has been provided
for community facilities, including -schools, parks and playgrounds.
39.       A kindergarten for about 100 children would be provided to serve
both infants as well as pre-school children while mothers work. It would
be located midway between the tourism zone and the old town. Also located
midway would be a health center. Vocational training in basic skills
(carpentry, electricity, plumbing and masonry) would be provided at a build-
ing north of the town. It would be equipped and operated by the IMSS who
are presently operating similar facilities in Zihuatanejo and the town of
Cancun.  Small scale industries will be promoted adjacent to the training
school to increase the town's economic base.
40.       While the character of the "colonial" town with the extended
pedestrian plaza is attractive, many of the old buildings and facades are
in need of extensive repairs.  Six important buildings of fine colonial
style in the town would be repaired under the project, and 25 blocks of
building facades would be given a "face-lift." Parks and plazas will be
built along the main pedestrian way connecting the center of the old town
with the tourism zone. Adjacent to the existing slaughter house 2 km
north of the town in the industrial service area, land has been reserved
for a wholesale market. A solid waste disposal site has been selected in
the flight line of the new airport. Covered garbage trucks and a tractor
would be provided for the sanitary landfill process.
41.       Environmental Sanitation.  For the first three years of project
implementation, sanitation programs consisting mainly of pest control would
be undertaken. Areas such as the lagoon would be studied for mosquito
control. Areas infested with flies would be treated and measures taken to
eliminate the source of contamination. Special controls will be maintained
around oxidation ponds, the sanitary landfill area and the stables.
42.       Buildings.  A fire station would be provided with space for
dormitories, administration offices, storage and garaging of fire trucks.
It will be located between the town and the tourism zone. FONATUR's field
offices and some staff housing would be located in the tourism zone.
Furniture, office equipment and vehicles would be provided under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 10
E. Conservation Programs and Studies for Both Project Areas
43.       In Loreto along the coastline there are a number of areas that
would be protected under the project by means of planting new material and
limited reforestation. In Puerto Escondido, which is barren, a variety of
palms and plant material would be developed along the beach of the inner
harbor. Dune grass along the outer edge of the beach would protect it.
Cactus and ground cover planted in clusters would stabilize the soil and
give cover for wildlife. In addition, the north and south end of Nopolo
Beach would be planted with palms and ground cover. There are also a few
lagoons that are potential bird sanctuaries where wild rice and other natural
foods would be planted to support a sizeable bird population. Tree planting
would also be extended along the coastline north to the airpolt.
44.       Outside the immediate project area in Loreto a wide conservation
zone has been planned that extends up into the foothills to the top of the
watershed. Behind the tourism zone, a natural spring feeds an oasis of
lush tropical vegetation and desert palms which have been cultivated for
the last century. It is surrounded by barren high rocky crags and cliffs,
providing a dramatic contrast. Under the project this "oasis" will be used
as a plant nursery, and serve as a center of tourist attraction.
45.       Out in the sea itself, is an extraordinary treasure of natural
life. Sea lions and seals inhabit the eastern tip of an island called
Isla Coronados. Birds have nests on the rocks on top of the island while
a complete rookery of bird life exists at the western end. In order to
preserve the natural life on this island, studies are reouired. It is
estimated that four man-months of naturalists will suffice to analyze the
present conditions and develop a program of conservation and wildlife manage-
ment. The potential for a "marine" park, that would include creating under-
water trails on the reefs at the western end of the island, would also be
studied.
46.       A second study to be undertaken would evaluate the vegetation
and wildlife surrounding Puerto Escondido and determine what portion of
the bay should be a wildlife sanctuary. The study would also include a
general reconnaissance of the large Isla del Carmen, 5 km east of Puerto
Escondido, which is presently used for salt extraction. These studies
would provide the necessary inputs for a conservation program and a coastal
land management plan for the entire area.
47.       In San Jose del Cabo the main conservation objectives are to
protect an attractive sweet-water lagoon adjacent to the town and tourism
zone, to develop a water management plan to conserve precious water in
the area, and to maximize the lagoon's long-term beneficial contribution
to the local population and the visiting tourists.



ANNEX II
Page 11
48.       Under the project, the lagoon will be dredged to provide for
sufficient depth so that plant and fish population could increase. Access
to the lagoon will be controlled and new plant material introduced around
the edge and on the island in the lagoon. Palm varieties will be added
to the existing royal palm clusters on the south side of the lagoon. The
lagoon contains a substantial quantity of fresh water,and a significant
feeding station would be established for the migratory bird population.
Wild rice would be planted for this purpose. Dune grass and ground cover
will be planted on the fragile primary beach to protect the land bridge
in front of the lagoon. In addition, similar planting would be extended
along the 2.5 kilometers in front of the resort for greater soil stability.
Wooden catwalks would be constructed across the primary and secondary dunes
at 4 or 5 locations, and regulations prohibiting the crossing of the dune
anywhere else would conserve the dune from the erosion of daily use.
49.       Under the project, SARH would undertake a study of the watershed
for San Jose del Cabo to prepare a water management plan that would assure
the area of permanent and safe groundwater supply. The study would include
the identification of strategic points for the construction of velocity
check dams. A limited program of reforestation would be implemented to
control erosion. These dams and programs will help recharge the aquifer.
It would also preserve the lagoon as a natural attraction for visitors.



ANNEX III
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
AERONAUTICAL ASPECTS
1.        Direct air access to the two tourism sites is critical to the
success of the project. San Jose del Cabo at present has a recently
completed 2,200 x 45 m runway of suitable strength, but there are no build-
ings, visual, navigational, or communication aids. At Loreto there is a
small general aviation airport that can handle only light aircraft. Ex-
panding and improving these airports and providing the necessary facilities
is estimated to cost US$14.4 million, which is expected to be disbursed over
the first three years of project implementation. The airport facilities
are discussed below, separately for each area.
A. San Jose del Cabo
2.        The terminal building at San Jose del Cabo will have about 2,500 m
of operational space on the ground floor with a modest restaurant, kitchen
and offices on an upper level. Since Baja California is a free zone, there
will be no incoming customs clearance but there will be an outgoing customs
clearance for flights proceeding to domestic points within Mexico. Health,
emigration and immigration check points will be required for all international
flights. The processing areas have been designed for about 200 peak-hour
passengers in each direction.
3.        A standard control tower, with adjacent technical block, will be
constructed to one side of the terminal building. The tower cab floor will
be about 25 meters above the ground. The technical block will contain
offices, equipment rooms, generator and pumping equipment.
4.        A three-bay crash, fire and rescue (CFR) building will be constructed
on the other side of the terminal. The ground floor will contain offices, a
dining room, kitchen and a training room as well as the CFR vehicles. The
upper level will house the dormitories and baths.
5.        A fuel farm will be constructed to one side and at the rear of the
terminal area. Turbine fuel will be supplied from there to the apron by an
underground hydrant system, while gasoline will be dispensed by fuel tank
trucks.
6.        An automobile parking area will be constructed in the forecourt of
the terminal building and internal access roads will be constructed as
necessary.



ANNEX III
Page 2
7.        A VOR/DME and NDB (radio navigational equipment) will be installed
on airport property. Each will be provided with standby electrical power.
The VOR will be located in such a position that the southern approach radial
will pass over agricultural land between the tourism facilities to be
provided under the project and the development planned for a second stage
(see Map ).
8.        Both VHF and HF radio equipment will be provided for air/ground
and point-to-point communications by the tower (air traffic control).
9.        Visual aids in the form of VASIS (visual landing aid) runway and
taxiway edge lights, apron lights and runway marking will be provided.
Perimeter fencing will also be installed.
B. Loreto
10.       At Loreto, buildings and equipment identical to those described
above for San Jose del Cabo would be provided except that there is no need
for a special location for the VOR. In addition, the following will be
provided:
(a) refurnishing of the existing terminal for use as a
general aviation terminal and repair of the existing
apron and taxiway for use of light aircraft;
(b) widening of the existing 1,410 x 30 m runway (16-34)
to 45 m and lengthening to 2,200 m;
(c) strengthening of the existing runway;
(d) construction of a new taxiway and apron for large
aircraft and rectification of any existing drainage
problems; and
(e) construction of an access road to the new terminal
from the main highway.
C. Airport Zoning Ordinances
11.       Zones along the sides of both airports would be established and
land use restricted to types insensitive to aircraft flight requirements
and noise.
12.       Zones at the ends of each runway under the approach and departure
paths of aircraft would be established with height restrictions for build-
ings in addition to land use restrictions.



ANNEX III
Page 3
D. Utilities
13.       Electrical services will be brought from the main distribution
substations at San Jose del Cabo and Loreto to the airports. Distribu-
tion within the airports will be under various contracts depending upon
the ultimate use.
14.       Potable water will be provided through the use of bore holes and
underground storage tanks. Pressure for the domestic system will be pro-
vided by pneumatic tanks. High pressure pumps will be provided for the
fire hydrant ring system.
15.       Sewage disposal will be accomplished by means of septic tanks and
leaching fields. Aircraft sewage wastes will be passed through a treatment
plant to neutralize the antiseptic solutions prior to introduction into the
airport sanitary system.
16.       Solid wastes from the aircraft and airport will be incinerated.
E. Aeronautical Considerations
17.       Procedures have been developed based on the VOR/DME for both
approach and departure from the airways and the airports. The provision of
an NDB will provide a means for aircraft not equipped with VOR/DME to
navigate and land at the airports.
18.       In the future, either end of the runways could be fitted with
instrument landing systems (ILS). Such installations should be seriously
considered as soon as heavy aircraft traffic develops, since vertical and
lateral guidance during landing approaches is highly desirable for large
jet aircraft.
19.       Although San Jose del Cabo is listed in the existing US/Mexico
bilateral agreement on three US routes and two Mexican routes serving a
total of four US cities, assurances have been obtained during negotiations
that the Government would make its best efforts to retain as a minimum
these points in future bilateral agreements and that scheduled interna-
tional air service be initiated to coincide with the opening of the
first hotels.
20.       Loreto is not listed in any bilateral agreement.  Accordingly,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government will make
its best efforts to include Loreto in future bilaterals and that sched-
uled international air service be initiated on these routes as soon as
the first hotels are opened. In the event that the signing of bilateral
air agreements are delayed beyond the opening date of the first hotels,
the Government has agreed to begin unilaterally scheduled international
air service to the United States from Loreto by adding Loreto to the end,
in each direction, of existing international routes.



ANNEX III
Page 4
This might necessitate changing the flight number of a through aircraft at
the previous terminal point of the flight. An example of such a flight
could be illustrated by adding Loreto at each end of the existing flights--
Puerto Vallarta, Monterrey, Houston, Monterrey, Puerto Vallarta or Mazatlan,
Puerto Vallarta, Guadalajara, Dallas, Guadalaiara, Puerto Vallarta, Mazatlan.
Actual fliehts to accomplish this purpose would in all likelihood be different.
F. Engineering Services
21.       All engineering work associated with the airports will be done by
the Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP) with technical
assistance provided by the Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT)
Airports and Auxiliary Services (ASA), Aeronautical Radio of Mexico (RAMSA),
and National Company of Aviation Combustibles (NACOA). SAHOP has designed
and supervised the construction of many airports in the past and is fully
competent to execute this component of the tourism project.
G. Environmental Considerations
22.       At San Jose del Cabo, because of prevailing winds, 90% of the
landings and take-offs will be from the south. The problems of noise at
San Jose del Cabo will be minimized through the adoption of flight procedures
which place aircraft over agricultural land (12 km away).
23.       At Loreto the approach will be over the water about 90% of the
time. The departure zone will cross the existing town (6 km away). The
urban plan has been so designed however, that no residences will be
constructed in the path of aircraft flights.
24.       The leaching fields associated with the sewage disposal systems
will introduce a pure effluent directly into the ground water with no
harmful effects. Aircraft and industrial wastes will be treated prior to
their introduction into the sanitary system to remove all harmful elements.
25.       Solid wastes will be incinerated in furnaces designed to release
no unburned material into the air. Ashes will be buried in landfill
areas on the airports.
H. Cost Estimates
26.       Detailed cost estimates for the airport component are shown in
Annex I, Table 6. The cost estimates were developed by SAHOP and are
based on quantities obtained from field survey data and preliminary
architectural drawings. The unit costs used are comparable to costs of
similar work designed and constructed under the supervision of SAHOP, and
are considered reasonable. Construction is expected to take two years.



ANNEX III
Page 5
I. Procurement
27.       A high percentage of the material required for the project is
produced in Mexico. However, because of lower transportation costs and of
the duty free aspect of Baja California, a large portion of the material
may come from the United States. Contractors for airport construction are
fairly numerous in Mexico and are generally the only tenderers on airport
work. However, the location of the airports may encourage US contractors
to bid. The manufacture and installation of the communications equipment
will be done by foreign contractors.
28.       A portion of the navaid equipment will be obtained from Wilcox
Electric Company, Division of American Standard, Kansas City, Missouri.
The cost of this procurement will be about US$700,000 and will consist of
the manufacture and installation of two Wilcox VOR/DME's. There is ample
justification for purchasing this equipment from this manufacturer. All
VOR's in Mexico (47) are Wilcox; supply support is based on this one type
of equipment; the electronic maintenance technicians are trained for this
equipment; test equipment for this specific VOR is available in quantity
in the country. The only DME's in Mexico (20) are Wilcox and the Wilcox
DME is specifically designed to mate with Wilcox VOR.
J. Aviation Administration
29.       The responsibility for the administration and operation of aviation
in Mexico devolves upon four organizations. The design and supervision of
construction of airports and their buildings is the responsibility of two
divisions within SAHOP. After construction, the maintenance of the field
lighting and collection of landing and rental charges is that of ASA. RAMSA
is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the navaids, communica-
tion gear and their operational areas (control tower, etc.) and is in
complete control of enroute and terminal air traffic. The Directorate
General of Civic Aeronautics is in charge of establishing air routes and
procedures, licensing, negotiating bilateral air agreements and other policy
type matters. DGCA is a governmental agency and reports to SCT. RAMSA,
which is a corporation partially owned by the Government and partially by
airlines serving Mexico, also reports to SCT. ASA, the airport operator, is
a governmental agency but reports to neither SAHOP nor SCT. It reports
directly to the Secretariat of the Presidencia.
30.       A fifth organization operates the fuel services.  NACOA is a
partially government owned corporation which operates under very exacting
standards. The fuel being processed is continually under test to assure
the airlines that the fuel meets their specifications. Since the fuel
being processed actually belongs to the airlines involved, the only income
NACOA realizes is derived from a through-put charge. This charge is
established by SCT, not by NACOA.



ANNEX III
Page 6
31.       The various other charges are also established by SCT, although
some are upon the recommendation of the operating services. For example,
enroute communication charges and navigational aid user charges are
established by SCT upon the recommendations of DGCA and RAMSA; landing
charges for each category of airport and terminal building rental charges
are established by SCT upon recommendations of ASA. The responsibility
for collecting these charges rests with RAMSA and ASA respectively.
K. Financial Aspects
32.       Projected Statements of Income and Expense in 1976 prices for
Loreto and the San Jose del Cabo airport for the seven years 1980/81 to
1986/87 are shown in Tables 1 and 2 of this annex. It is assumed that
both airports will be operated as independent units. While the responsibi-
lity for the administration and operation of aviation in Mexico falls on
five organizations, the financial projections assume a consolidation of
activities as though it were one organization. It is also assumed that all
new airport investment costs will become assets of the airports and that
existing assets are not an incremental project cost and can be transferred
on a zero book value basis.
33.       Assumptions used in projecting revenue include:
(a) Commercial landing fees are the primary revenue source.
These fees, set nationally, vary with weight and
presently average 2000 pesos for a DC-9 (flown by
AeroMexico) and 3000 pesos for a 727. It is assumed
that these charges will be raised 20% from present
levels in accordance with Bank recommendations
(Loan 1022) prior to initiation of significant
activity in 1980.
(b) General aircraft landing fees are assumed to average
10% and other income, including rentals, fuel through-
put and concessions will average 9% of commercial
landing fee income.
(c) 70% of all tourists will arrive by air. 60% of these
air passengers will embark from Mexican origin points
and 40% will embark elsewhere. The number of tourists
is derived from occupant days as projected in Annex VII
and assumes an average duration of stay of four days
in hotel/apartels and ten days in condominiums and
villas.
(t) Half of the tourists arriving from points within
Mexico will travel by 727 and half by DC-9. Planes
will operate at 60% of occupancy. Two-thirds of the
passengers arriving from international destinations



ANNEX III
Page 7
will arrive by chartered 727 averaging 90% of capacity
and the remainder will arrive by commercial 727 averag-
ing 50% of capacity. It is assumed there is no season-
ality in the traffic.
(e) Air cargo and non-tourist air traffic will not be
significant.
(f) 40% of departing air passengers will pay a Mex$50
international departure tax and 60% will pay a Mex$10
domestic departure tax. These taxes are assumed to
represent project revenues although in practice they
will not be retained by the airport authority but
will go directly to the national treasury.
34.       Assumptions used in projecting expenses are:
(a) All operating expenses, i.e., labor, materials, services,
and SAHOP maintenance costs will be the same US dollar
equivalent as projected for the Bank's 1974 financial
analysis for a similar operation at Villahermosa Airport.
These projections assumed a conversion rate of Mex$12.50
to US$1 and a 2% increase in costs per year in real
terms.
(b) An ASA overhead allocation of about 16% of operating
costs will be levied on the two airports.
(c) Depreciation on a 20-year straight line basis will be
charged only on the incremental project investment
excluding price contingencies to express the expense
in 1976 dollars.
(d) No interest expense or loan amortization requirements
will be imposed.
35.       The projected financial results on the basis of these assumptions,
including departure taxes as revenues, are:
(a) For Loreto, the project achieves an operating cash sur-
plus in 1981/82, the second full year of operation and
achieves a positive net operating revenue position in
1983/84 following deficits during the construction
years and three years of full operation. Thereafter,
the simple annual financial rate of return improves
steadily reaching 10.8% of average net fixed assets
by 1986/87.



ANNEX III
Page 8
(b) For San Jose del Cabo, the airport project achieves
an operating cash surplus in 1982/83, the third full
year of operation, and achieves a positive net
operating revenue position in 1984/85, the fifth
full year of operation. Thereafter, the simple an-
nual financial rate of return improves steadily
reaching 17% of initial average net fixed assets by
1986/87.
(c) Increased flights generated by the airport invest-
ments will significantly increase landings and, hence,
landing fees at other Mexican airports, with little
increase in operating costs or investments. The net
return to ASA, therefore, is considerably higher than
the projections suggest.



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
LORETO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
PROJECTED OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                                                 1981         1982         1983         198)         1985         1986         1987
US$ '000 (1976 prices7T
Total Revenues
Commercial Landing Fees                                                  49.7        148.9        244.0        349.3        458.9       533.5        574.8
Miscellaneou/ Landing Fees                                                5.0         14.9         24.4         34.9         45.9         53.4         57.5
Other Incomela                                                            4.5         13.4         22.0         31.4         41.3         48.0         51.7
Sub-Total                                       59.2                                   177.2        290.4    546.1 634.9                               6
Departure Taxes                                                          31.2         93.6        153.4        219.7       288.6        335.4        361.4
Total Revenue                                                              90.4        2-7                       635.3    2       77       970.3       1045.7
Operating Expenses
Labor                                                                    92.2         94.1         96.0         97.9         99.8        101.8        103.8
Materiala                                                                11.9         12.1         12.4         i2.6         12.9         13.2         13.4
ServicesL                                                                32.9         33.5         34.2         34.9         35.6         36.3         37.0
SOP Maintenance Costs                                                    28.8         29.4         29.9         30.5         31.1         31.7         32.4
Total Working Costs                                                                    169.1        172.         175.9        17.9E        183.0        186.6
Operating Revenue Before Allocations and Depreciation                     (75.4)       101.7        271.3        459.4        655.3        787.3        858.8
Less ASA Overhead Calculation                                            27.0         27.5         28.0         28.6         29.1        29.7          30.3
Less Depreciation                                                       348.o        348.0        348.0        348.0        348.0        348.0        348.0
Net Operating Revenue Including Departure Taxes (loss)                   (450.4)      (273.8)      (10L.7)        82.8        278.2        409.6        480.5
Net Operating Revenue Excluding Departure Taxes (loss)                   (481.6)      (367.4)      (258.1)      (136.9)       (10.4)        74.2        119.1
Annual % Return on Net Fixed Assets Including Departure Taxes              (6.9)        (4.4)        (1.8)         1.5          5.4          8.5         10.8
Annual % Return on Net Fixed Assets Excluding Departure Taxes              (7.4)        (5.9)        (4.4)        (2.5)         (.2)         1.5          2.7
/a Includes rentals, fuel through put, concession, etc.
T  Includes cleaning electricity, water, telephone, etc.
H-~



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
SAN JOSE DEL CABO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
PROJECTED OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES
Fiscal Year Ending June                                                   1981         1982         1983        1984          e           1986         1987
US$ '000 (19-76 pricesYL
Total Revenues
Commercial Landing Fees                                                 20.8         91.1       140.6        206.8        283.3        363.8       438.3
Miscellaneou/ Landing Fees                                               2.1          9.1        14.1         20.7         28.3         36.4         43.8
Other Income-a                                                           1.9          8.2        12.7         18.6         25.5         32.7         39.4
Sub-Total                                                                 2                       167.4        246.1        337.1        432.9
Departure Taxes                                                         13.0         57.2        88.4        130.0        178.1        228.8       275.6
Total Revenue                                                165.6 257. 376.1                                               515.2        661.7        797.1
Operating Expenses
Labor                                                                   92.2         94.1        96.0         97.9         99.8        101.8        103.8
Materials                                                               11.9         12.1        12.4         12.6         12.9         13.2         13.4
Services                                                                32.9         33.5        34.2         34.9         35.6         36.3         37.0
SOP Maintenance Costs                                                   28.8         29.4        29.9         30.5         31.1         31.7         32.4
Total Working Costs                                                      165.8        169.1       1-72.5       17.9         179.4        183.0        1.
Operating Revenue Before Allocations and Depreciation                   (128.0)        (3.5)        83.3       200.2        335.8        478.7        610.5
Less ASA Overhead Calculation                                           27.0         27.5        28.0         28.6         29.1         29.7         30.3
Less Depreciation                                                      186.3        186.3       186.3        186.3        186.3        186.3        186.3
Net Operating Revenue Including Departure Taxes (loss)                  (341-3)      (217-3)      (131.0)       (14-7)      120.4        262.7        393.9
Net Operating Revenue Excluding Departure Taxes (loss)                  (354.3)      (274-5)      (219.4)     (144.7)       (57.7)        33.9        118.3
Annual % Return on Net Fixed Assets Including Departure Taxes             (9.9)        (6.7)        (4.3)         (.5)        4.5         10.5         17.0
Annual % Return on Net Fixed Assets Excluding Departure Taxes            (10.3)        (8.4)        (7.2)        (5.0)       (2.1)         1.4          5.1       |
/a Includes rentals, fuel through put, concession, etc.
7T Includes cleaning, electricity, water, telephone, etc.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Part I. Water Supply, Sewerage and Storm Drainage for Loreto
I. Project Description
A. Water Supply
(a) Loreto-Tourism Zone
1.       The project foresees the provision of water for the tourism zone
of Nopolo from the aquifer of Primera Agua drainage basin, about 5 km north
of the tourism zone and, if necessary, complemented by water extracted from
the aquifer of the Loreto Creek Valley. The facilities include:
( i) a transmission main of asbestos cement pipe,
8" and 10" in diameter and 10.5 km in length,
with an intermediate booster pumping station;
( ii) use of an already constructed water storage tank
to provide for peak demands of the tourism zone
(Nopolo) and for reserve storage;
(iii) distribution system inside the tourism zone which
will include 9.6 km of asbestos cement pipe,
ranging from 3" to 16".
(b) Town of Loreto
2.       Water from Loreto Creek Valley aquifer is presently used for supply-
ing the local population of Loreto and will continue to be the source for
the expanded system. The distribution system is composed of 8 circuits,
representing 12.7 km of asbestos cement pipe ranging from 4" to 12". In
addition, there will be 41.4 km of secondary service mains of 3" pipe.
B. Sewerage
(a) Loreto-Tourism Zone
3.       Sewage collected in the tourism zone will flow toward two pumping
stations. The sewage arriving at the pumping station in the southern part
of the tourism zone will be elevated to a point from which it can reach by
gravity the north pumping station. This second station will pump the total



ANNEX IV
Page 2
sewage flow to stabilization ponds through a 10" asbestos cement pipe of
about 2 km in length. The effluent, after treatment, will be used for
irrigation purposes. The length of the sewer to be installed is about
10.6 km. Sewer lines will be made of concrete pipe in diameters up to 18"
and of reinforced concrete for laTger pipes.
(k) Town of Loreto
4.       The sewage from the entire town will flow to a pumping station located
near the seashore, and from there pumped back through a 10" asbestos cement
pipe of about 5 km in length to the stabilization ponds. The effluent will be
used for irrigation purposes. The sewerage system of Loreto includes about
5 km of collectors ranging in diameter from 10" to 24", lateral sewers of 8"
and house connections of 6".
C. Storm Drainage
(a) Loreto-Tourism Zone
5.       Storm water will be allowed to flow on the street pavement to a low
point, where an outfall - 150 m long - has been provided to discharge the
water into a nearby estuary. To assure the surface flow, some cuts and fill-
ings will be made in a number of streets to obtain continuous descending
slopes.
(b) Town of Loreto
6.       An open channel crossing the middle of the town will intercept the
storm water from the upper portions of town and discharge it into a nearby
creek. For the lower portions of the town, 4 outfalls have been provided which
will discharge the storm water into the sea.
II. Cost Estimates
7.       The estimated cost of the water supply, sewerage and storm drain-
age is summarized in Annex I. Cost estimates were prepared by consultants
to FONATUR and based on the Unit Price Catalogue issued by SARH, and adjusted
to take into account the effects of devaluation. Unit costs represent the
Mexican cost of goods and civil works and appear reasonable.
III. Administration of the Project
8.       FONATUR will employ consultants for the final design of the project,
which will be prepared in accordance with SARH standards. Supervision of
construction will be done by FONATUR, with the assistance of SARH. The
system will be operated and maintained by a Junta Local de Agua Potable,
with representatives of the state government, local authority, SARH and
FONATUR.



ANNEX IV
Page 3
Part II. Water Supply, Sewerage and Storm Water Drainage
for San Jose del Cabo
I. Project Description
A. Water Supply (Tourism and Urban Areas)
9.       A major aqueduct has been constructed by SARH to serve the towns
in the southern tip of Baja California peninsula. The water is extracted
from four wells located between San Jose Viejo and Santa Anita in the
valley of San Jose Creek. The transmission line is an 18" asbestos cement
pipe which runs down the valley to San Jose del Cabo and then along the
coast to Cabo San Lucas, The capacity of the aqueduct is 200 l/sec, of
which about half would be designated for the project.
10.      As the selected tourism zone is close to the town of San Jose
del Cabo, the water storage facilities will be common for both areas.
There will be two systems, one for the main sections of the town and the
tourism zone  (areas located from sea level to 40 m above sea level),and
the second for the areas between 40 m to 60 m above sea level.
11.      The low lying areas will be supplied by gravity from the aque-
duct to storage tanks at an elevation of 55 m, and from there by gravity
to the distribution systems. The required storage capacity is 1,200 m3.
The higher sections will be supplied from the aqueduct through a pumping
station to the storage tanks and from there by gravity to the distribution
systems. The distribution system for the town and tourism zone will
include 23.6 km of asbestos cement mains ranging from 2" to 16" in diameter
and the installation of 1,593 connections with water meters.
B. Sewerage (Tourism and Urban Areas)
12.      The sewage from the town of San Jose del Cabo will flow by gravity
to a low point in the area, from where it will be pumped to stabilization
ponds. From the ponds the effluent, after treatment, will flow by gravity
to agricultural areas below. The length of sewers to be installed is 14 km,
ranging from 8" to 30" in size. Sewer lines will be made of concrete, with
diameters varying from 8" to 18" and of reinforced concrete from 18" to 30".
C. Storm Water Drainage (Tourism and Urban Areas)
13.      A system of two interceptors is proposed to collect and divert the
storm water from the higher areas surrounding the town of San Jose del Cabo
and the tourism zone. The north interceptor will protect the tourism zone
and will be an open channel 1,300 m long. Roads and streets have been
designed with proper slopes to carry the rainfall into the sea.



ANNEX IV
Page 4
D. Cost Estimates
14.       The estimated cost of the water supply, sewerage and storm
drainage components of San Jose del Cabo town and tourism zone is
summarized in Annex I. Cost estimates were prepared by consultants to
FONATUR and based on the Unit Price Catalogue issued by SARH. Unit costs
are based on the Mexican cost of goods and civil works and appear reason-
able. Engineering and administrative costs have been estimated at 10%
of construction cost.
E. Administration
15.       FONATUR will employ consultants for final designs of the pro-
ject which will be prepared in accordance with SARH standards.  Super-
vision of construction will be carried out by FONATUR with the assistance
of SARH. The system will be operated and maintained by a junta local
which will have representatives of the state government, the municipality,
SARH and FONATUR.
Part III. Financial 'As2gets--Loreto-and San Jose del Cabo
16.       Financial projections were made for the water supply and sewer-
age components in the form of income statements, balance sheets, and
sources and applications of funds statements for the eight years 1977/78
to 1984/85. These projections are shown in Tables 1 to 6 of this annex.
All projections are in current US thousands ol dollars assuming international
aniual inflation rate projections for export prices.
17.       Underlying assumptions on which these projections are based
include:
(a) Both the Loreto/Nopolo and San Jose del Cabo water and
sewerage operations will be operated as independent
units managed by a local commission or junta.
(b) All new headworks and equipment investments will become
assets of these new organizations. Existing system
assets in San Jose del Cabo will be retained by SARH
while those in Loreto will be transferred to the junta.
Distribution network inyestment (with the exception
of network equipment) and the cost of professional ser-
vices will be borne by FONATUR's real estate operations
and are not carried oQ  the financial statements of
the juntas.



ANNEX IV
Page 5
Cc) Tariff assuiptions for Loreto and San Jose del Cabo
are gex$7.90 per. g3 for hotela7 Mex$5.00 for condo-
miniums and yillap and Nex$4.00 for urban sales.
These tarigffs gxe the sage as those established in
1976 for parallel services in a similar situation at
Cancun. Tariffs are a.ssi*ed to increase through 1982/83
in Loreto and 1983/84 in the case of San Jose del Cabo
in line with inflation. Bad debt expense is 5% of
urban sales.  Connection fees, the same as at Cancun,
are Nex$1,000 per room for hotels, Mex$5,U00 for condo-
miniums and villas and.IMex$1,000 for urban homes.
Recycled water will be sold at Mex$0.25 per cubic meter
and will be used for irrigation purposes.
(d) Consumption assumptions are 0.6 m3 per occupant day for
tourists; 0.2 m3 pet day for the urban population.
Wastage and free municipal use will total 25% of
revenue producing consumption. Occupant days are
derived from projections in Annex VII. Population
is projected to rise from 3,000 in 1976/77 to 18,800
by 1985 for Loreto and from 4,000 to 18,500 in 1985
for San Jose del Cabo, based on employment generation
projections in Annex X and assuming 1.5 workers per
household, 5 people per household and 100% connections.
Construction workers are assumed not to have separate
connections.
18.       Operating expense assumptions include:
(a) Direct employment by the junta to operate and maintain
the system will rise gradually to 46 people in Loreto
and 32 people in San Jose del Cabo. The lowest paid
personnel, e.g., meter readers and messengers will
receive Mex$50,000 per annum including fringe benefits
while skilled personnel will receive multiples of 1.25
to 3 times this base.
(b) Electricity costs are based on national tariff rates of
US1.5 cents per kwh and chlorine on current prices of
US.30 cents per kg. Usage would vary directly with pro-
duction.
(c) Annual maintenance costs are 6% of initial equipment
investment costs, 3% of initial headwork investment
costs, and 1.5% of initial network investment costs,
excluding the costs of permanent professional staff.
Administrative costs are estimated at US$15,000 per year.



ANNI4X IV
rage 6
(a)  Depreciation is straight-line and is 2.5% per yeax
for headworks And 20% for equipment.  In lieu of de-
preciation, an annual reserve of 1.5% of the value
of network and pxofessional serVices is set aside for
future replacement, but does not represent a deduction
from income.
Ce) Interest expense of 18% per annum on average balance
outstanding is incurred on short-term borrowings.
No interest income is accrued for excess cash on hand.
(f) The junta in San Jose del Cabo will purchase water in
bulk from SARH at a price of US7.8 cents per m3. Of
this tariff, US1.6 cents represents current expenses,
US4.1 cents represents depreciation over twenty years
and US2.1 cents goes to a reserve fund for future ex-
pansion. The current expense portion is adjusted up-
ward for inflation at the end of the fifth year and
each year thereafter.
19.       Balance sheet assumptions include a minimum cash balance of 30
days operating expenses, average accounts receivable of 36 days, current
liabilities of 60 days operating expenses,, no dividends, and replacement
of equipment on terms of 20% down payment, 18% interest and a ten year
repayment period.
20.       The projected financial results on the basis of these assumptions
are:
(a) For Loreto, the simple annual financial rate of return
reaches 2.8% of average net fixed asset investment in
the third full year of operations (the sixth year from
initiation of construction) and 12.3% in the fifth
year assuming tariffs rise with inflation through 1983.
The junta must resort to short-term borrowing in amounts
reaching as high as US$87,000 over the two-year period
1980/81 to 1981/82 to cover cash deficits. While the
projected current ratio, assuming repayment of the loan
drops to a low of .37 in 11980/81, no serious liquidity
problem should arise because of the strong equity posi-
tion and adequate additional borrowing power.
(b)  For San Jose del Cabo, the annual financial rate of return
reaches 8.3% of net fixed asset investment in the fourth
full year of operation (the sixth year from initiation
Of construction) and 14.6% in the fifth year assuming
tariffs rise with inflation through 1984. The junta must
resort to short-term borrowing in amounts reaching as high



ANNg Iy
Page 7
as US$139,000 during the six-yeax period 1978/79
to 1983/84 to cover cash deficits. While the pro-
jected current ratio drops to .26 in 1980/81, this
does not constitute a serious liquidity problem
because of the strong equity position and adequate
borrowing power.
(c) Both projects are characterized by initial periods
of losses and tight liquidity conditions followed
by higher profits..and the creation of high cash re-
serves in later years.
22.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all of the
investment costs for the water supply and sewerage.systems.in the project
areas would be.recovered either through land sale prices or user charges
and that water supply and sewerage charges would be.sufficient to cover:
(a) the costs of operation and'maintenance of such facilities,. including
depreciation based on a reasonable valuation.of all headworks and equip-
ment costs, 0) increases in working capital, and Cc) the financing of
minor expansion of the facilities.



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FOR LORETO
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT (1978-1985)
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                           1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984         1985
Thousand m-
Water Usage
Tourism Consumption                                35.5        39.0        42.6        81.6       263.7       441.0       639.4        848.9
Urban Consumption                                 292.0       416.1       584.o       642.4       854.1      1022.0      1233.7       1372.4
Unaccounted for Water                              81.9       113.8       156.7       181.0       279.5       365.8       468.3        555.3
Total Water Usage                                   709.7       3=9         7905.0                 1397.3      182I=.      2341.7 h     2776.
US$ '000 (Current Prices)
Revenues
Tourist Sales                                      15.8        18.6        21.8        44.8       148.6       263.1       378.6        499.1
Urban Sales                                        65.7       100.8       151.7       178.5       253.7       325.1        392.4       436.5
Miscellaneous Income                                 .6         2.5         1.7        30.8        49.4        61.1         66.3        68.9
Less Bad Debt                                      (3-3)       (5-0)       (7-6)       (8-9)      (12.7)      (16.3)       19.6)       (21.8)
Net Total Revenue                                    78.        116.s9      167.6       245.2       439.0       633.0        B7.7        982.7
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                          19.7       101.5       116.9       203.2       221.1       245.7        271.2       290.3
Maintenance + Administrative                        6.7        25.4        52.5       142.6       152.6       163.4        174.7       187.0
Electricity/Chemicals                               3.3         4.8         7.1         8.8        14.6        20.4         27.9        35.5
Depreciation                                       12.4        44.3        92.3       129.1       138.3       147.9        158.2       169.3
Total Operating Expense                              42.1       1.37                                526.6       577.7       -632.0       682.1
Net Income Before Interest                           36.7       (59-1)     (101.2)     (238.5)      (87.6)       55.6        185.7       300.6
Interest on Long-Term Debt                           __          __          __          __          __          __           __        73.2
Interest on Short-Term Debt                          --          _-          __         7.8        13.8         6.o
Net Income                                           36.7       (59-1)     (101.2)     (246.3)     (101.4)        49.6       185.7       227.L4
Return on Net Fixed Assets                           23.2        (9.7)       (7-1)      (12.1)       (4.4)         2.8         8.4        12.3    0 4



MEXICO:  BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FOR LORETO
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS (1978-1985)
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                            1978        1979         1980        1981        1982         1983         1984        1985
US$ '000 (Current Prices)
Assets
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service Adjusted for Revaluation        329.0       957.7      2115.5       2263.5      2422.1       2591.5      2773.0       2967.1
Less Depreciation                                 12.4        57.6        154.1       294.0       452.8        632.4       326.7        518.9
Net Plant in Service                             316.6       900.1      1961.14      1969.       1969.3       1959.1      TM673       -24TI82
Current Assets
Cash                                              40.1        20.7         14.7        29.6        32.4         35.8       112.5        431.2
Network Replacement Reserve (Cash)                 6.1        23.9         23.3          __           __       115.1       271.0        320.5
Accounts Receivable                                7.9        11.7         16.8        24.5        43.9         63.3        80.4        111.9
Total Current Assets                                54.1        56. i1 541. 763                                  T2172        76379       863.6
Total Assets                                         370.7       956.4       2016.2      2023.6       2045.6      2173.3       2910.2      3311.8
Liabilities
Capital and Reserves
P aid-in-Capital                                 329.0       933.0       2039.0      2039.0      2039.0       2039.0      2039.0       2039.0
Retained Earnings                                 36.7       (22.4)      (123.6)     (369.9)      (471.3)     (421.7)      (236.0)       (8.6)
Reserve for Revalued Assets                         --        23.8         71.4       208.6       346.7        484.4        621.7       792.9
Total Capital                                      365.7       934.14 19866            1877.7       1914.4      2101.7       2424.7      -973:
Long-Term Debt                                        --          --           --          --           --          --        403.0       398.8
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                   5.0        22.0         29.4        59.1         64.7        71.6         79.0        85.5
Current Portion--Long-Term Debt                                 3---                                  -            -          3.5         4.2
Short-Term Borrowing                                --          --           --        86.8         66.5          ---
Total Current Liabilities                            5.0        22.0        2-97        145 9        131.2        71.6         727           77
Total Liabilities and Capital                        370.7        956.4      2016.2      2023.6       2045.6      2173.3       2910.2      3311.8
N '
e&jgC



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FOR LORETO
PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUJND (1978-1985)
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                              1978         1979         1980        1981         1982 P983                 1984         1985
US$ '000 (urrent Pri31ces)    1b
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income Before Interest                          36.7        (59-1)     (101.2)      (238.5)       (87.6)        55.6        185.7        300.6
Depreciation                                        12.4        44.3         92.3        129.1        138.3        1147.9       158.2        169.3
Total                                                 49.1        MM5           (8.9)     (109.1)        50.7        203.5        343.9        469.
External Cash Generation
Long-Term Loan                                                           --           --                              --           - -          - -
Equity                                             329.0       604.0       1106.0
Short-Term Borrowing                                  --           --           --        86.8           __                     406.5
Total Sources                                          379                                    2  1097.1     .7        203.5        750.4        79-9
Applications of Funds
Capital Expenditure
Proposed Project                                   329.0       604.o       1106.0           __                                  508.1            _
Debt Service
Interest--Long-Term  Loan                             --           --          --           --           --           --           --         73.2
Interest--Short-Term  Loan                            --                                                                                      73 7.8  13.8  6.0  --
Amortization--Long-Term Loan                          --           --           --          --           --          ,            3.5           4.2
Amortization--Short-Term Loan                         --           --           --          --         20.3         66.5           --            --
Total                                                                                                     20-  7  34.1  72.5                     77.4
Working Capital Requirement                           49.1        (14.8)        (8.9)       (30.4)        16.6        131.0        238.8
Total Applications                                     37iT                     1097.         (2.)                      203.5        75024 469.9
FR H
'.j1-



NEnICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FOR SAN JOSE DEL CABO
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT (1978-1985)
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                              1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         1985
Thousand m:'
Water Usage
Tourism Consumption                                                                          35.5        162.3        255.7        378.9        519.9
Urban Consumption                                    343.1        394.2        576.7        678.9        861.4        992.8       1182.6       1350.5
Unaccounted for Water                                 85.8         98.6           .2        178.6        255.9        312.1        390.4        467.6
Total Water Usage                                      42929 79.25               720.9        693.0       1279.6       1560.6       1951.9      72:355
Revenues                                                                                  US$ '000 (Current Prices)
Tourist Sales                                           --           --           --         19.5         91.7        152.1        239.4        325.9
Urban Sales                                           77.2         95.5        149.8        188.7        255.8        315.8        402.3        459.4
Miscellaneous Income                                     .8          .8          3.6         30.8         31.5         31.0         39.6         49.7
Less Bad Debt                                         (3-9)        (4.)         (T.5)        (9-4)       (12.8)       (15.B)       (20.1_2
Net Total Revenue                                        71.1 9193 145.9                      229.6        366.2        483.i        661.2        o2.0
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                             19.7         59.8         64.1        125.9        134.7        153.1        167.9        184.5
Maintenance + Administrative                           6.7         18.8         45.3         90.0         96.3        103.1        110.2        118.0
Electricity/Chemicals                                  3.8          4.3          5.7          6.8          9.0         11.1         14.1         17.2
SRH Fee-Current Items                                  6.9          7.9         11.6         14.4         20.6         59.7         79.7        102.2
SRg Fee-Depreciation and Reserves                     26.5         30.5         44.6         55.2         79.1         96.5        120.6        14.5
Depreciation                                           8.4         42.7         75.3         87.8         93.9        100.5        107.5        115.1
Total Operating Expense                                 72.0        1240046.6                 3            433 6                     6DO.O        681.7
Net Income Before Interest                                2.1        (72.5)     (100-7)      (150.5)       (67.4)       (40.9)        61.2        130.5
Interest on Long-Term Debt                              -_           _            __           __           __           __           __         65.7
Interest on Short-Term Borrowing                        __          1.B          6.6         16.6         2h.3         22.0         14.1          4.6
Net Income                                                2.1        (74.3)     (107.3)      (167.1)       (91.7)       (62.9)        47.1          60.2
Return on Net Fixed Assets                                3.4        (20.3)      (15-7)       (22.5)       (10.8)         (7.2)        8.3         14.6



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FOR SAN JOSE DEL CABO
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS (1978-1985)
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                           1978         1979        1980        1981        1982        1983         1984        1985
TUS$ '5000(Current-TIces)
Assets
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service Adjusted for Revaluation       131.0        642.9       819.6       876.9       938.4      1004.1       1074.3      11149.5
Less Depreciation                                 8.4        51.8        130.8       227.7       337.6       461.8        140.6       297.8
Net Plant in Service                              122 .61-1                M"    60.95.242. 933.7
Current Assets
Cash                                              8.5         10.1        14.3        24.4        28.3        35.3         41.0        47.2
Network Replacement Reserve (Cash)                5.2           --          -_          __          __           __          __       112.9
Accounts Receivable                               7.4          9.2        14.6        23.0        36.6         48.3        62.1        76.3
Total Current Assets                             21.1         19.3                                                        10.-19      236.4
Total Assets                                        143.7        610.4       717.7       696.6       665.7        625.9      1036.8      1088.1
Liabilities
Capital and Reserves
Paid-in-Capital                                 131.0        633.0       773.0       773.0       773.0        773.0       773.0       773.0
Retained Earnings                                 2.1        (72.2)     (179-5)     (346.6)     (438.3)      (501.2)     (454-1)      (393.9)
Reserve for Revalued Assets                        --          9.2        42.2        90.4       135.9        177.9       215.8       248.9
Total Capital                                     133.1       570.0         3706                                             3479.7  7
Long-Term Debt                                       __           _                                                         365.7       362.0
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                  10.6        20.2        28.6        48.7        56.6         70.6        82.1         94.4
Current Portion Long-Term Loan                      --          --          --          --           --          --         3.1          3.7
Short-Term Borrowing                               --         20.2        53.4       131.1       138.5        105.6        51.2           __
Total Current Liabilities                          10.6          07          2         17-95       195.1        1767.2      13 6.14       9 
Total Liabilities and Capital                       143.7        610.4       717.7       696.6       665.7        625.9      1036.8       1088.1
v H~



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FOR SAN JOSE DEL CABO
PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS (1978-1985)
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                            1978         1979        1980        1981         1982        1983         1984        1985
US$ '000 (Current Prices)
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income Before Interest                         2.1        (72.5)     (100.7)     (150-5)       (67.4)      (40.9)        61.2       130.5
Depreciation                                       8.4        42.7         7           87.8         93.910
Total                                             10.5        (8        )             (62.7)        9.9         5                       25.
External Cash Generation
Long-Term Loan
Equity                                           131.0       502.0        140.0          --           --          -_           _           __
Short-Term Borrowing                                --         20.2        33.2        77.7          7.4           --       368.8           --
Total Sources                                        1h1.5   4 92.7           147.:               1 5     .9         596         37.         245.6
A"Uati_e Of F_ma
Capital Expenditure
Proposed Project                                 131.0       502.0        140.0          __            _            _       461.o           --
Debt Service
Interest--Long-Term Loan                            --           --          --          --           --          -_           __         65.7
Interest--Short-Term Loan                           --          1.8         6.6        16.6         24.3        22.0         14.1          4.6
Amortization--Long-Term Loan                        --           __          __           __          __           __         3.1          3.7
Amortization--Short-Term Loan                       _            --          --           --          --        32.9         54.4         51.2
Total                                               _Z                                              24.3                                 125.2
Working Capital Requirement                         10.5        (11.4)        1.2         (1_.6)       96           4.7         4.9        120.4
Total Applications                                    7 ;7        492.4       7T            15.0        33.9         59.6       5377.5      124.6
_ _ _ _                                                           33.9        59.6                     2h5.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX V
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
THE TOURISM SECTOR
A. Tourism Assets
1.        Mexico is one of the world's major and most richly endowed tourist
destinations. Its varied attractions include the architectural remains of
a series of major civilizations; entertainment ranges from the modern and
fashionable, to superb traditional music and dance; a wealth of contemporary
creative arts; a shopping paradise that includes handicrafts and haute
couture; an agreeable climate; excellent beaches that abound along the
Pacific and Caribbean sea costs; and street scenes that reflect the varied
cultural background of Mexico's populace. In addition, Mexico is located
next to the US and Canada, one of the world's richest tourist supplier
markets.
B. Tourist Arrivals--Trends and Characteristics
2.        The proximity to the US  and Canada, and the 2,000-mile border
shared with the US, has made Mexico the most accessible and truly foreign
destination for North American tourists. In addition, close business ties,
growing prosperity in the US and Canada, direct air access to various
destinations in Mexico, and rapid expansion in accommodations and other
facilities combined to make the growth of tourism to Mexico possible.
Visitor numbers have increased to reach 3.2 million in 1975./ In addi-
tion, there is the Mexican-US border traffic (estimated at 70 million in
1975), which is not counted as tourism. Part of this border traffic is
in fact tourism, especially weekend traffic and a large hotel capacity has
been built to cater to their needs in border towns, such as Tijuana and
Ensenada.
3.        The average growth of number of visitors was 13.9% between 1961-1965,
10.1% between 1965-1970 and declined to 6.7% between 1971-1975. The recent
slowdown in growth has been caused by a combination of factors: the economic
recession in the US; a Jewish boycott, especially by Jewish travel agencies
in the US; and a strongly overvalued peso (Mexico before the devaluation of
September 1976 was more expensive than Hawaii for those who stay in
"classic hotels" and travelled by air).
1/ Visitor numbers include Mexicans residing abroad.



ANNEX V
Page 2
4.        Mexico is accessible by land, sea and air.  Table 1 demonstrates
the increasing popularity of air travel. In 1975 and 1976, about half
of all visitors arrived by plane, a result of declining costs of air travel
and the opening up of more direct flights from majer US and Canadian cities
to destinations such as Acapulco, Merida, Guadalajara, La Paz and Puerto
Vallarta. Arrivals by car from the US are mainly from the border states
which generate over 65% of the US tourism to Mexico   (Arizona 10%,
California 23%, Texas 29% - Table 2). Although 85 to 90% of the foreign
visitors are from the US (Table 3), the number of Japanese, Europeans and
Latin Americans (especially from Brazil and Venezuela) coming to Mexico is
increasing steadily.
5.        According to a study carried out by the National Bank of Mexico in
1973, the main reasons which visitors cited for coming to Mexico were:
Number of
Reason                     Tourists (000)                 Percentage
-pleasure trip               2,505.6                          77.6
-business                       176.2                          5.5
-study                           18.8                          0.6
-transit                         29.3                          0.9
-visit to family                401.4                         12.4
-visit to friends                40.9                          1.3
-other reasons                   54.2                          1.7
In fact many trips are made for more than one reason and almost all trips
include more than one destination. About 22% of all visitors enter Mexico
via the Mexico City airport, about 35% declare Mexico City as their final
destination.
6.        Beach tourism appears to have grown considerably in the last years.
Arrivals to Acapulco jumped with the opening of the international airport
from 7,000 to 35,000 in 1966 and has continued to grow thereafter. The number
of tourists declaring Puerto Vallarta or Mazatlan as their final destinations,
for instance, show the growth of popularity of these resorts (Table 4), with
a large percentage of the foreign visitors arriving by air.
7.        Studies carried out by the National Bank of Mexico show that air
travellers are bigger spenders than those arriving by land: US$368.80 per
person-trip for air travellers vs. US$152.21 per person travelling overland
in 1975 (Table 5). A sample survey carried out during the summer of 1976
shows average daily expenditures of Mex$600 in Cancun.
8.        Seasonality is not a major problem for the Mexican tourist industry.
The small peaks occur in December, June, July and August, with a low in
September when it rains (Table 6 ). The popularity of Mexico for conventions,



ANNEX V
Page 3
and the skillful management of this convention capacity has aided Mexico
in reducing seasonality. The total capacity for conventions in hotels is
about 34,000, of which 14,500 is in Mexico City, and approximately 8,500
in Acapulco. The recently added convention center at Acapulco (8,000 capa-
city) and Cancun (550) and the centers planned for Ixtapa (2,500),
Mazatlan (2,000) and Merida (2,000) will probably make convention tourism
even more important for Mexico in the future.
9.        FONATUR estimates that domestic tourism totalled 14.8 million
visits in 1975 or 28.4 million visitor nights. One large government-owned
hotel company (Nacional Hotelera) estimates that half of its guests are
Mexicans and hotel statistics for Cancun and Ixtapa show more Mexican than
foreign guests. The average length of stay nf Mexicans, however, is much
shorter than for foreigners. The popularity of buying condominia or second
homes on the coast is growing rapidly among the Mexican middle-income
families. Besides the large middle class which can afford vacations away
from home, a still largely untapped market exists among the lower-income
families. Measures have been taken by the Mexican Government to promote
and open up opportunities for vacation for this segment of the population.
Discounts on bus and railroad travel for the labor union members and the
provision of camping sites, lodges and famitels, have considerably increased
the possibilities for "social tourism."
10.       The number of Mexicans travelling abroad increased from 272,800
in 1970 to 526,252 in 1975. Since the September devaluation many foreign
trips were cancelled (travel agencies estimate an 85% cancellation for
Mexican group tours abroad) and the number of Mexicans travelling abroad
has probably fallen in 1976.
C. Development of Tourism Facilities
11.       In 1975, there were 6,269 lodging establishments with 190,513 rooms,
which represent an annual increase of 7.5% since 1970. The fastest increase
in rooms has been in the "A" category and the biggest in "B" category, which
reflects the increased demand for reasonably priced accommodation. Tables 7
to 9 show the present situation, growth rates and distribution of accommoda-
tion by type and category. There is a definite trend towards building hotels
with larger capacity.
12.       Hotel occupancy statistics are not available for the country as a
whole, only for certain destinations. As shown in the table below hotel
occupancy is remarkably high and even throughout the year in Mexico City
with a peak in the summer. Occupancy rates in the first class hotels are
even higher and there is a definite demand in Mexico City for more rooms in
this category (Table 10). Cancun and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo are still too new
to have established any trends. Table 10 shows relatively high occupancy
rates for first-class hotels in established beach resorts.



ANNEX V
Page 4
1975 Hotel Occupancy
Mexico City   Acapulco
January                            65.4          74.6
February                           72.6          80.3
March                              72.5          75.6
April                              64.3          58.8
May                                60.4          54.5
June                               73.5          37.6
July                               84.4          50.6
August                             82.1          74.3
September                          66.0          43.3
October                            71.7          51.4
November                           68.3          65.7
December                           69.7          72.5
Average                            70.9          56.9
13.       Room rates are fixed by the Government, in principle, for four-year
periods.  Hotels have to submit their proposed room rates to a committee in
the Secretariat of Tourism. In practice, however, rates are reviewed more
often, especially because of frequent wage increases. A 20% increase in
prices was granted after the September 1976 devaluation. Even with this
increase in rates, prices in dollar terms returned to their 1974 levels,
as can be seen from the table below:
Mexico City
Weighted Average Hotel
Room Rate by Class of Hotel
Class of           1974              1975           1974/1975            1976-/
Hotel         Mex$    US$        Mex$    US$         % Change       Mex$      US$
AA            379.82  30.39    481.47  38.52            27         577.72   29.03
A             236.54  18.92    327.22  26.18            38         392.66   19.73
B            149.53  11.96    193.24  15.46             29         231.89   11.65
C              80.44   6.44    113.03   9.04            41         135.64    6.82
D              42.85   3.43      86.92   6.96          203         104.30    5.24
a/ Based on the 20% price increase granted after devaluation (Aug. '76) and
converting it into US$ at US$1 = Mex$19.9.
Prices of other goods and services typically bought by tourists, such as local
transportation, souvenirs, and restaurants, are now similar to (or below) those
prevailing in 1973-74. Since prices have increased substantially over the last
few years in most competing destinations, Mexico is now in a competitive posi-
tion in terms of prices, particularly compared with the Caribbean and Hawaii.



ANNEX V
Page 5
14.       Tourist facilities, other than hotels, have also flourished with
the continued expansion in tourism. The number of travel agencies in-
creased from a total of 468 in 1972 to 758 in 1976, a 62% increase in less
than four years. These agencies serve the foreign tourist, but cater also
to Mexicans taking vacations in the country and abroad. Tourists frequently
use the services of transport companies or rent-a-car agencies. The number
of agencies catering to the transport needs of tourism has also grown fast:
from 43 in 1973 to 320 in 1976 for specialized transport; from 159 to 205
in the same period for rent-a-car agencies. The number of restaurants and
bars and other such facilities have increased by about 14% between 1972 and
1976.
Accessibility
15.       Mexico has a well developed land, sea and air transport network.
During the period 1971-74, about US$2 billion were spent on road construc-
tion, increasing the network of paved roads from 71,250 km in 1971 to
175,540 km in 1974. A ferry network has been developed, largely to link
Baja California with the Mexican mainland. Cruises are being organized
along the Pacific Coast, tying US and Mexican cities. Air accessibility has
also improved, with 44 commercial airports in operation at present. Inter-
national airports were recently opened at Zihuatanejo and Cancun, and
Mexico City's airport, which in 1974 handled about 50% of all flight arrivals
from abroad is being modernized and expanded. Although Mexico City, Acapulco
and some other cities have good air connections with the US, Canada, South
America, and Europe, some air access problems have developed in the last
few years. These relate to air policies rather than to infrastructure.
Unfortunately some of the airports are not serviced with the frequency and
variety that made Mexico City and Acapulco major tourist destinations. This
is the result of the lack of a new bilateral civil aviation agreement between
Mexico and the US for the 1970-1976 period. The main casualties of the lack
of such agreement are the new resorts of Cancun and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo. In
particular the latter, which is not included in the 1970 bilateral agree-
ment had to be serviced by domestic flights during its first two years of
operations (1975-1976), which affected the flow of foreign tourists. A
new bilateral agreement with the US is expected to be signed in 1977, and
there is growing awareness of the need to strike a balance between the
interests of the tourism sector (that would benefit from a liberal air policy)
and that of Mexico's national airlines.
D. Land Ownership
16.       Under Mexican law foreigners cannot own land within 100 km of
the international borders or 50 km of the coast. However, the Decree of
April 29, 1971, permits accredited Mexican banks to act as trustees for
foreigners. The banks can purchase land on behalf of foreigners and hold
the land in trust for a 10-year period, renewable to a maximum of 30 years.
After 30 years, foreigners can seek a new trust with another bank or instruct
the bank to sell the land.



ANNEX V
Page 6
17.       Much of the land in Mexico, and therefore many sites with tourism
potential, belong to the ejidos, a communal land tenure form which dates
back to the time of the revolution. Under this system an ejidatario has
the right to use communal land but he is prohibited from selling, leasing,
dividing or mortgaging his share.  Only one of his children can inherit
his right to be an ejidatario.  In Baja California, it is estimated that
only 20% of the land is in private hands with 80% belonging to ejidos or
the Government.  Ejido land can be expropriated by presidential decree for
purposes stated in the Federal Agrarian Reform Law, including tourism
development purposes. Public agencies and ejidos themselves have the right
to propose expropriation, but the Department of Agrarian Affairs has to
judge if the proposed land use will yield a larger public utility than the
existing utility. Ejido land can be expropriated in favor of only three
government agencies: BANOBRAS, INDECO and CORETT. These agencies can then
divide and sell the land to private or public organizations. The proceeds
of the sale are handed over to the ejido assembly (which has a common fund)
after deducting overhead and representation costs incurred. The ejidatario
is entitled to indemnization for the expropriated land in the form of either
20% of the profits derived from the sale of land after it is developed or
an amount equivalent to twice the estimated commercial value of the land
before development, plus two urban lots provided the expropriated land is
urbanized.
18.       A strip along the coastline is in the hands of the Federal Govern-
ment which can give concessions for the use of this and national land, pro-
vided the development does not restrict free entry to the beaches. The land
which belongs to a municipality or city and is administered by these local
authorities is called "fundo legal." The municipal authorities acquire this
land by expropriation, although many "fundos" are administered as such without
the appropriate legal transfer from and compensation to the ejidos that owned
this land.
E. Institutional Aspects
19.       There is no single entity at the federal level charged with the
responsibility for developing tourism. This responsibility is in fact shared,
among others, by the Secretariat of Tourism (Turismo), The National Council
of Tourism and FONATUR. Each of these have some specific but many overlap-
ping responsibilities and there is no effective coordination among them,
although the law that created Turismo in 1974 entrusted it with a coordinating
role of all aspects of sectoral development, including promotion and training.
The new Government seems determined to strengthen Turismo so as to ensure more
effective coordination. The National Council of Tourism was created in 1961
by Presidential Decree and is headed by the former president of Mexico,
Miguel Aleman, and has as its principal task tourism promotion. Its budget
is higher than that of Turismo (Mex$330 million as compared to Mex$290 mil-
lion in 1976). It has a network of 15 foreign delegations and one in
Acapulco, while Turismo has 19 delegations abroad and 126 in the country.
The organization and tasks of FONATUR are discussed in detail in Annex VI.



ANNEX V
Page 7
20.       A recently created entity, FINRURAL,-/ can,under the new Agricul-
tural Credit Law of April 1976, extend credit to communities in rural areas
wishing to participate in tourism ventures. FINRURAL is expected to channel
its funds to communities in FONATUR promoted projects or to projects being
developed by local or regional tourism fideicomisos (trust funds). FINRURAL
is expected to take over all ejidos' tourism projects, of which 135 with a
total planned investment of Mex$465 million were expected to be implemented
in 1976-1977. Control over tourism enterprises will then not only rest in
the private sector, or with public-private ventures as Nacional Hotelera,
but also with social private enterprises at the local level.
Employment and Training
21.       The tourism sector employs between 300 and 400 thousand persons or
about 2% of Mexico's labor force, of which some 180,000 work in hotels. The
Bank of Mexico estimates that 76% of the hotel work force is employed at
the lower level, 18% in administration and food preparation, and 6% in super-
visory and executive functions. Most labor in hotels and restaurants,
particularly at the lower level, has not received any formal vocational train-
ing, but has been trained on the job. Some large AA and A category hotels
have their own formal training programs before workers are brought on the
job itself. Top management positions are often filled by Mexican or expatriate
staff,trained in hotel schools abroad.
22.       Although the most pressing need is for trained staff at the lower
and intermediate level, existing training institutions concentrate on train-
ing people for higher management and supervisory levels. Only 16% of the
students are being trained for lower level jobs, 55.8% for administration and
food preparation, and 28.1% for management positions. This situation is
considered both by Turismo and the National Hotel Association to be the
reverse of the actual needs of the sector. Tourism training is carried out
by different organizations, both in the public (Social Security Institute,
Secretariat of Public Education, Secretariat of Tourism), and private sectors
(labor unions and universities). The number of training institutions has
grown from 42 in 1973 to 80 by the end of 1976. Most of these institutions
prepare students for careers for which no demand exists, and have not
contributed much to the improvement of tourism services. The organization
most geared to the needs of the sector is the Mexican Institute for Soci 1
Security (IMSS). It has 11 schools training staff for the lower level.2
They offer 16 weeks of basic training courses for jobs such as chambermaids,
assistant bar attendants, restaurant or kitchen assistants, bellboys,
telephone operators, receptionists, cashiers, and elevator operators.
During the first semester of 1976, 974 students graduated. It is estimated
that 50 to 85% of the graduates found work in the tourism sector.
1/ Financiera Nacional de Industria Rural
2/ These centers are located in: La Paz, Merida, Acapulco, Manzanillo,
Mazatlan, Cancun, Zacatecas, Villahermosa, Morelia, Mexico City, Cuernavaca.



ANNEX V
Page 8
23.       IMSS intends to continue to open up new centers at a rate of three
to four a year; the next two centers will be in Tijuana and Toluca. The
IMSS school in La Paz offers courses for only five occupations (chambermaid,
bar, kitchen and restaurant assistants and receptionists). Ninety-one percent
of the school's graduates are employed in tourism (in the first semester of
1976, 66 students graduated). A new hotel training school in La Paz, which
opened in January 1977, has the capacity to train 1,000 students per year,
initially only for lower-level jobs. This school has the best available
physical facilities in the country; it is,however, uncertain who will operate
it and how operating funds will be secured. Since 1971, the Secretariat of
Public Education recognizes a career at the intermediate level ("tecnico").
This training (administration of tourism business) was given in 17 places
in 1976. In addition, many private institutions offer training at the
intermediate level which lead to degrees which are not officially recognized.
In 1976, there were 21 such institutions, offering courses for stewardesses,
guides, travel agents, etc.
24.       At the advanced level, a degree ("licenciado") can be obtained
after four years of study at a university. In August 1976, 17 universities
offered this specialization; 3 of which specialize in the area of business
administration in tourism, the others in tourism planning. Eight out of
seventeen have degree programs which are recognized by the Secretariat of
Public Education.        Approximately 700 "licenciados" graduated in 1976
and most have had difficulties finding employment in the tourism sector.
Common omissions in these careers are: (a) foreign languages; (b) human
relations and communication skills; and (c) practical training. Postgraduate
training for tourism planning can be obtained at CICATUR--The Inter-American
Center for Tourism Training.
25.       The lack of practical training is a common characteristic at all
levels. It is in part caused by the existing labor laws and regulations
which do not permit hotels and restaurants to serve as a training ground,
unless a hotel has been designated to be a hotel traininR school.  It is  1 qn
caused, however, by the orientation of curricula planners, who do not
correctly read the market needs.
26.       Turismo estimates that for the period 1976-1982, with an assumed
construction of 19,000 new rooms per year, the demand for trained staff will
be approximately 15,000 people per year. The distribution of needs is as
follows: 11,600 persons per year for lower-level jobs, 2,750 for medium-level
jobs in administration and food preparation, and 900 for management jobs.
Clearly the present training structure cannot fulfill these demands. The
new administration recognizes the need to carry out market studies to
determine the quantitative and qualitative demand for trained personnel,
to improve curricula and to ensure more practical training.



ANNEX V
Page 9
G. Economic Importance of Tourism
27.       The major roles played by tourism are its contribution to Mexico's
balance of payments and the generation of employment. In relation to the
first, tourism foreign exchange earnings amounted to some US$800 million
in 1975, after having reached over US$840 million in the previous year. This
represented some 13.9% of exports of goods and services in 1974 and 13.4%
in 1975, as can be seen in the following table:
Balance of Payments Brief
(in US$ million)
Rate of Growth
(in %)
1965-   1970-
1965   1970   1973   1974   1975   1975    1975
(a) Exports of Goods and
non-factor services  1,902  2,745  4,603  6,064  5,966   12.1    16.8
(b)  of which Tourism        275    415    724    842    801   11.3    14.0
(c) Imports of Goods and
non-factor services  2,192  3,417  5,237  7,764  8,518   14.5    20.0
(d)  b:a (in %)             14.5   15.1   15.7   13.9   13.4
28.       Tourism is the second most important single export item after border
trade, which includes revenues which could be rightly counted as tourism as
shown below:
Export Detail
(in 1967-69 US$ million)
Items                                   1970       1975
Cotton                                   124        174
Coffee                                    86        184
Cattle, Meat                             122         35
Petroleum, Oil Lubricants                  38       460
Tourism                                  415        801
Border Transactions                      879      1,542
Assembly Industry                         81        403
All other Goods and Non-Factor
Services                            1,123      2,530
Total                                  2,868      6,129



ANNEX V
Page 10
29.       A survey undertaken in Acapulco in the early seventies shows that
income per employee in tourism activities was some 50% higher than the
average income,with tips representing more than 40% of wages and benefits
in hotels. Although Acapulco has other industries, it is still basically
a tourism-dominated town. Mexico-wide, however, earnings in tourism are
probably similar to those in other modern sector activities.
30.       Handicrafts is an important component, particularly with respect
to the distribution of benefits from tourism. In 1975 the total sales
volume of handicrafts was estimated at Mex$1.6 billion, affecting the lives
and incomes of at least 5 million Mexicans (including producers and market
intermediaries and their families) in the lower 40% income segment of the
population. Mexican crafts are well known for their diversity, colorfulness
and quality, and they are considered and advertised as a major tourist
attraction. The craft products bought as souvenirs serve as lasting symbols
of a vacation spent in Mexico and therefore partly represent "Mexico" in
the experience of the tourists. Understanding of the mechanisms involved
in crafts production and marketing and its links to the tourism sector,
merits special attention, and is further described below.
31.       The producers of crafts can be divided into various categories:
over half belong to Indian ethnic groups, another 30-40% are mestizos. A
very small percentage can be considered craftsmen--artists, who make a
living based on the fame acquired from their individual products. However,
most artisans are nameless. The amount of family effort devoted to craft
production depends upon the yields and income from agriculture. For most
craft producers, living at the subsistence level, agricultural activities
are the basic occupation. Since on the average, however, there are over
200 days per year during which a family is not working in agriculture,
some communities or families have specialized in craft production. For
instance, 1975 was a bad year in agriculture and 200 Huichol Indians were
registered as artisans; in 1976, a better agricultural year, only 61
registered.
32.       There are several institutions involved in the preservation,
production and marketing of crafts at various points in the production
cycle. The largest and most well-known is the National Fund for Craft
Development (FONART), created in 1971. FONART's role is to rescue, con-
serve, diffuse and improve all expressions and objects of popular arts as
well as support the producers of these arts. The Museo Nacional de Artes e
Industrias Populares, a small private institution, is well known for its
location and its collection of products in Mexico City, but less for its his-
torical preservation work. Other institutions such as the National Directorate
for Artisans, within the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce, INI (National
Institute for Indigenous Groups), FONAFE (National Fund for Ejido Development),
the Rural Credit Bank, and PIDER (Investment Program for Rural Economic
Development), have craft-artisan and/or small industry development in their
programs. Their activities in this field, however, do not compare to those



ANNEX V
Page 11
of FONART. FONART focuses on dissemination of information on popular arts
through regular publications, a weekly T.V. program and exhibitions. Its
major task, however, lies with the producers, of which 70% are Indian.
The first step in its contact with producers is the organization of a
"solidarity group." This group collects orders, organizes and distributes
work and is eligible for credit, training and other support. Each group
establishes minimum quality requirements and prices. The producers receive
half of the price upon delivery of the products and the other half the next
month. This payment system guarantees a certain minimum income per month;
but it also gives FONART a strong grip on the artisans.
33.       FONART, which is against formation of cooperatives or workshops,
wanting to safeguard the individuality of each producer, provides technical
assistance to the producers by teaching them to use new, better instruments,
better quality primary products or new, useful forms for the same artistic
expression (e.g., place mats instead of large tablecloths). Producers can
also obtain credit from FONART, up to a maximum of Mex$50,000. FONART also
tries to maintain and upgrade quality of the products by the organization of
contests among artisans.



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Visitor Arrivals by Means of Transportation 1960-1976
(in thousands)
1960      1965       1970       1971      1972       1973       1974*      1975*      1976*
Car                          339.8      654.9    1145.3    1252.5    1368.7    1311.7    1304.5    1242.1    1238.0
Plane                         281.4     432.2      888.8    1009.0    1261.0    1486.6    1613.8    1560.7    1654.0
Bus                            43.2      73.8      159.8      178.2     209.7      230.0      235.3      228.5      236.3
Railway                        21.8      25.9       45.0       50.2      52.4       68.0       67.2       61.1       66.6
Boat                            1.9       3.7        6.8        7.5       5.8       13.0       10.1       12.9       10.0
Other                           2.4       8.7        4.5       12.6       14.6     129.6      131.1      112.6      123.1
Total                     690.0    1200.0    2250.2    2510.0    2912.2    3238.8    3362.0    3217.9    3328.0
PERCENTAGE SHARE
1960-65      1965-70       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975      1976
Car                             52.5         49.3        49.9       47.0       40.5       38.8       38.6      37.2
Plane                           36.9         41.5        40.2       43.3       45.9       48.0       48.5      49.7
Bus                              5.9           6.1        7.1        7.2        7.1        7.0        7.1       7.1
Railway                          2.6           2.1        2.0        1.8        2.1        2.0        1.9        2.0
Boat                             1.3          0.5         0.3        0.2        0.4        0.3        0.4       0.3
Other                            0.8           0.5        0.5        0.5        4.0        3.9        3.5        3.7
Total                       100.0         100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0
>
* :  Preliminary figures
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding                                                                                         c
Source: Direcci6n General de Poblaci6n, SRIA. de Gobernacion



MEXICO: bAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Visitors from Selected USA States to Mexico (Percentage of U.S. Visitor) 1960-76
Average Annual1 Growth
1960         1965         1970*        1971*        1972*        1973*        1974*        1975*        1976*'                       1960-65        1965-70    1970-75
Texas       1/        32.8         34.8         29.9         29.3         29.1         26.8         26.5         30.7          28.9                           13.5          7.5          7.0
California  1/        22.6         27.3         24.9         24.7         23.7         22.3          21.3         24.0         23.3                           16.5          8.7          5.6
Arizona     1/         7.6         11.8         11.2          11.0         10.0          9.0         10.0         10.3         10.4                           22.5          9.5          4.7
Illinois               6.6          5.5          5.0          4.8           5.2          5.3          5.5          5.2          5.2                            8.1          8.7          7.3
New York               7.6          6.8          5.0          5.0          4.8          4.9           4.7          5.2          4.9                            9.8          4.2          7.1
Florida                -            -            2.2          2.4           2.5          2.8          2.9          2.2          2.4                            :            -            6.0
Michigan                1.7          1.7          1.6          2.0          1.8          1.8          1.6          1.7          1.9                           11.9         10.9           7.0
New Mexico  1/         1.7           1.6         1.6           1.5          1.4          1.5          1.5          1.6          1.3                           10.4         10.6           6.9
Louisiana              2.0           1.9          1.3          1.3          1.4          1.2          1.3          1.3          1.5                           10.9          3.2           6.0
Ohio                   1.3           1.0         1.1           1.1          1.2          1.3          1.5          1.0          1.2                            7.0         12.4           4.3
Other States          16.1           7.6        14.8          15.5         17.9         22.3         22.3         15.8         18.0                              -            -           7.9
Officials            -            -            1.4          1.4           1.0           .8           .9          1.0          1.0
Total          100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
Total Number of
U.S. Visitors
(thousands)          669.0       1188.0       1981.00      2210.0       2543.0       2758.0       2861.0       2707.0        2869.0                             -             -           6.4
1/ Border states
* Preliminary figures
** Estimated figures
Source: Direccion General de Estadistica. S.I.C.



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Foreign Visitors to Mexico by Country of Origin
(in thousands)
1970      %     1971      %      1972      %     1973      %      1974*     %      1975*     %     19761/
Africa                           0.1     -       0.2      -       0.2      -       0.4     -       0.6      -       0.4      -       0.6        -
America                       2192.4    97.4  2445.0    97.4  2819.4    96.8  3095.0    95.6  3214.0    95.6  3037.7    94.4  3214.3          96.6
Canada                       65.9     2.9    80.1      3.2   101.2     3.5   122.1      3.8   131.1      3.9   115.8     3.6   126.5        3.8
U.S.A.                     1980.9    88.0  2209.8    88.0  2543.0    87.3  2758.1    85.2  2861.0    85.1  2722.3    84.6  2868.8          86.2
Guatemala                    43.3     1.9    49.8      2.0    56.6     1.9    65.4      2.0    67.2      2.0    57.9     1.8    69.9        2.1
Other Countries             102.4     4.6   105.3      4.2   118.6     4.1   149.3      4.6   154.7      4.6   141.6     4.4   149.2        4.5
Asia                             6.2     0.3     6.9      0.3    11.8     0.4    16.6      0.5    13.4      0.4    12.9      0.4    20.0       0.6
Japan                         4.6     0.2     5.0      0.2     9.3     0.3    13.9      0.4    10.1      0.3     9.7     0.3    16.6        0.5
Other Countries               1.6     0.1     1.8      0.1     2.6     0.1      2.7     0.1     3.4      0.1     3.2     0.1      3.3       0.1
Europe                          47.2     2.1    53.0      2.1    74,8     2.6    91.7      2.7    94.1      2.8    80.4      2.5    89.9       2.7
Federal Republic of
Germany                    9.2     0.4    12.1     0.5    20.2      0.7    23.7      0.7    23.5     0.7    16.1      0.5    20.0        0.6
Spain                         4.8     0.2     4.9     0.2      5.0     0.2     4.5      0.1     3.4     0.1      3.2     0.1      6.7       0.2
France                        9.3     0.4    13.5      0.5    18.7     0.6    20.2      0.6    20.2      0.6    12.9     0.4    20.0        0.6
Holland                       1.4     0.1     1.6      0.1     2.5     0.1      3.5     0.1     3.4      0.1     3.2     0.1      3.3       0.1
England                       8.2     0.4     5.7     0.2      6.5     0.2     7.4      0.2     6.7     0.2      3.2     0.1      3.3       0.1
Other Countries              14.2     0.6    15.2      0.6    21.9     0.8    32.4      1.0    37.0      1.1    41.8      1.3    36.6       1.1
South Pacific                    4.0     0.2     4.9      0.2     6.1     0.2     7.3      0.2     3.4      0.1     3.2     0.1      3.3       0.1
Australia                     3.4     0.1     4.1      0.2     5.0     0.2      6.0     0.2     3.4      0.1     3.2     0.1      3.3       0.1
Other Countries               0.7     0.1     0.8       -      1.1       -      1.3      -       -        -       -       --       -          -
Unknown                          0.3      -      0.0       -      0.0       -     30.9     1.0    36.4      1.1    83.3      2.6      -          -
TOTAL VISITORS-               2250.2   100.0  2510.0   100.0  2912.2   100.0  3241.5   100.0  3362.0   100.0  3217.9   100.0  3328.0         100.0
* : Preliminary figures
1/:  Estimated figures
Source:  Direccion General de Estadistica, S.I.C.



ANNEX V
Table 4
MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Parameters of Tourism Growth in Selected Destinations
Number of Tourists (thousands)
Puerto Vallarta   Mazatlan   Acapulco
Year                                 (Jal.)          (Sin.)    (Guer.)
1968                                  72.2           126.7        955.2
1969                                  92.8           141.7      1,001.5
1970                                 129.4            162.0     1,061.5
1971                                 157.5           204.6      1,120.2
1972                                 196.6            247.0     1,341.3
1973                                 218.8           305.3      1,457.8
1974                                 240.9           326.1      1,551.8
-  of which foreigners               102.0           164.0        737.5
- of which visitors arriving
to destination on inter-
national flights                   46.1            96.4        387.7
Source:   Documentos de la Gerencia de Planeacion y Estudios Econ6micos,
FONATUR, Nos. 40, 41 and 44.



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Average Expenditures and Average Length of Stay of Tourists 1969-1975
(in US$)
1969 1!    1970       1971      1972       1973       1974       1975
Total average expenditure person/trip       284.44       n.a.      n.a.    193.03    224.46    250.43    248.65
- arriving overland                     215.73      n.a.       n.a.    128.76    153.49    171.38    152.21
- arriving by plane                     358.83      n.a.       n.a.    287.78    313.36    343.39    368.88
Average daily expenditure                    20.95       n.a.       n.a.     18.38      20.34      23.05     23.46
- arriving overland                      14.48        9.80      9.94    11.95       13.10     15.38      14.34
- arriving by plane                      30.97       25.10     25.87    28.75       30.70     32.61      34.71
Average length of stav (days)                13.60       n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       11.00      10.90     10.60
- arriving overland                      16.10       13.30     12.80    10.80       11.70     11.10      10.60
- arriving by plane                      11.60       10.60     10.50    10.00       10.20     10.50      10.60
1/  Source:  Banco de Mexico, S.A. Special Survey
1972-76: Banco de Mexico, S.A. Gerencia de Investigacion Economica
t& p
VI c



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Visitor Arrivals by Month
(in thousands)
1960          1965            1970           1971           1972           1973*           1974*           1975*           1976*
January              58.3          105.9          161.4          186.8          215.7          242.1           252.9           253.4           252.7
February             62.0          105.1           170.1          187.8         229.0          244.9           271.8           264.4            270.4
March               .52.5           90.9           214.6          176.3         278.2          271.3           295.3           327.6            267.3
April                60.3          106.7           143.4          219.4         210.4          283.1            296.4           216.2           279.3
May                  51.6           93.6           180.2          180.8         195.5          238.1            244.8           237.3           230.2
June                 73.2          123.1           213.9         223.0          276.1          289.6           301.9            280.1           255.1
July                 90.8          152.8           236.5         270.0          297.6          305.8           317.2            303.9           288.9
August               80.3          143.2           222.3          238.1         262.4          314.7            321.0           305.2              -
September            51.3           89.9           130.5          146.2         178.5          191.8            183.8           173.6              -
October              47.7           91.1           149.0          176.8          206.2         220.5            235.2           233.7              -
November             51.5          100.4           171.4          201.8         222.8          273.4            277.2           260.3              -
December             81.1          147.7           256.9         303.1          344.0          366.9            364.5           362.2              -
TOTAL         761.0        1350.0          2250.0         2510.0         2912.2         3242.0          3362.0          3218.0              -
* Preliminary figures



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
LodRitn  Egtablihsento by Type nd Category
VfS'E OF ACCTRQ4ODATION
Total                           Hotels                         Motels                       Gueatho.ses                      Apartents                           Spas
No. of Estab-      No. of       No. of Estab-      No. of      No. of Estab-      No. of       No. of Entab-       No. of      No. of Entab-       No. of      No. of Estab-       No. of
Yeer        lishbents         Rooms          ltsheets         Roome         lisht ot         Rooms          liS_ seh ts      R0.. s         lish entt        Rooms          liehoosre         Roooo
1961          3.314          90,891           2,243          76.666            195            4,240            699            7,800            177            2,185
1965           3,452         96,653            1,987         75.909            371            8,205            866           10,203            228            2,336              -
1970          4.765         132,701           2,534         100,371            510           12.127          1,381           16,019            340            4,178
1972           5,892        163.016           3.567         128.507            653           15,228          1,239           13,053            417            5,659             16               569
1973          5,970         166.107           3,605         130,849            673           15.623          1.248           13,201            427            5,857             17               577
1974          6,159         171,551            3,759        135,581            695           16,136          1,254           13.241            434            6.016             17               577
1975          6,269         190,513            3,880        150,917            752           18,419          1,149           12.754            455             7.181            33             1.242
CATRERY OF AC(7MMODATION
Total                            ,,,A                                                             8                              CD 
No. of Estab-      No. of       No. of Estab-      No. of      No. of KEtab-       No  of      No  of Estab-       No. of      No. of Estab-       No. of       No  of Eseb-       No. oF       No  of ESfeb.       No  of
year        lishoents          P~g...       lisheents        Rooms          ltoheento        Rooms          lntgaeh ts       Roolos         lishm-ents       Rooms          lisheents         Roos           lish.ent.        Room
1961          3,314          90,891              121          6,267            354           14.713            419           13,278            382           10,564           942             26,541          1,096           19528
1965          3.452          96,653              233         10,994            739           26,047            478           14,170            347            8,862           846             20.814            809           1.5766
1970          4,765         132,701             398          21,008            711           23.069            714           22.392            846           23.526         1.218             27.118            878           157588
1972           5,891        163,016              167         14,700            422           19,642            912           32,867          1,002            28,015         1.541            31,935          1,848           35,857
1973          5,970         166,107              176         15,699            437           20,489            935           33,535          1,015           28,194         1,556             32,256          1.851           35.934
1974          6.159         171.551              192         16,5C0            449           20,954            986           35,345          1,058           29,214         1,600             33,184          1.874           36.354
1975          6.269         190.513              169         24,484            295           18,100            977           41,245          1,203           35,626         1,474             32,840          2.151           38.218
Soorce:  Seoretaria do Tri_o
Ds.mber 15, 1976



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Distribution of Lodging Establishments by Type and Category
in Selected Years (Percentages)
Rooms                                 Establishments
Type                  1961     1965      1970     1975            1961      1965      1970     1975
Hotels             84.3     78.5      75.6     79.2            67.7      57.6      53.2     61.8
Motels              4.7      8.5       9.1       9.7             5.9     10.7      10.7      11.9
Guesthouses         8.6     10.6      12.1      6.7            21.1      25.1      29.0     18.3
Apartments          2.4      2.4       3.2       3.8             5.3      6.6       7.1       7.3
Spas                 -        -         -       0.7              -         -         -       0.5
Category
1"AA"               6.9     11.4      15.8     12.9             3.7       6.8       8.3      2.7
A                 16.2     26.9      17.4      9.5            10.7      21.4      14.9      4.7
B                 14.6     14.7      16.9     21.7            12.6      13.8      15.0     15.6
C                 11.6      9.2      17.7     18.7            11.5      10.1      17.8     19.2
D                 29.2     21.5      20.4     17.3            28.4      24.5      25.6     23.5
E                 21.5     16.3      11.8     16.9            33.1      23.4      18.4     34.3
Source:  Secretaria de Turismo
December 15, 1976



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Lodging Establishments per Category and Type, per Dec. 31, 1975
CATEGORY                      AA                         A                   B                      C                      D                      E                      TOTAL
TXPe            gEstablishment       Rooms       E         R                   R            E         R            E         R              E         R            E           R
Hotels                   132           22,925      184    15,218       588      31,486       794      27,423       1,022      26,481       1,160      27,364        3,880      150,917
Motels                     9               591       34     1,460      229       7,040       240       5,592         205       3,156           35         580         752       18,419
Guest houses               1                24       7         23       19         262        49         757         151       1,849          922       9,840       1,149       12,754
Apartments                26               857      68      1,001      130       2,000       113       1,662           92      1,308           26         353         455        7,181
Spas                       1                87       2        398       11         457         7         192           4          47            8          61          33        1,242
Trailer parks              -                 -        -                  -           -         -            -           -           -           -           -         190       10,366    1/
1/ Refers to spaces
>0 <



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
HiTTEL OCCUPA1CY RATES, SELECTED DESTIIATICES, BY CATEGORY
1970 - 1975
:iex' c>o ,.t,    .capulco    Puerto Vallarta    I-iazatlan   La Paz      Tijuana        Ensenada
Year      AA     A        I    II       I       II         I    II        II        I    II        I    II    '
1970     6804   62.5    74    61       50       66       76.o  65.0       65      68.0  55.0    51.0  46.o
1971     58.1   60.1    78    65       67       66       76.0  66.o       67      70.0  55.0    51.0  49.0
1972     6805   6503    70    64       76       67       77.0  71.0       63      65.0  55.0    52.0  51.0
1973     77.5   70.9    81    74       81       67       85.0  81.0       70      45.0  59.0    61.0  48.0
1974     79.7   72.8    81    65       84       71       8304  75.2       60      55.8  45.6    5502  49.3
1975       -      -      72    57       -       -          -     -        55      57.6  57.2    51.7  44.7
1/  AA class is lTiiry hotels; A, international standard.
I combines liixury and international standard; II is good, reasonably priced hotels.
Source: Fonatur Stlldies



ANNEX VI
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
FONDO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO AL TLTRISMO (FONATUR)
A. Background and History
1.        In 1969, the Federal Government authorized the Bank of Mexico to
create an organization--Fondo de Promocion de Infraestructura Turistica
(INFRATUR)--that would lend public sector support to the expanding tourist
industry. Its purposes were: (a) the promotion and carrying out of infra-
structure projects in the tourism sector; (b) encouragement of private
investment to supplement the Government's infrastructure investment;
(c) purchase, development, subdivision, sale and rental of real estate
property; and (d) collaboration with other federal and state agencies, for
the purpose of developing the tourism industry as a whole.
2.        The sum of Mex$30 million was provided initially by the Federal
Government as INFRATUR's capital, which has since then increased several-
fold. In support of the Government's policy to diversify geographically
Mexico's tourism facilities, INFRATUR began concentrating its efforts in
developing two new sites: Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast and
Cancun on the Caribbean coast. In addition, INFRATUR has on a smaller
scale been involved in developing an infrastructure project in Oaxaca.
The status of the projects in Cancun and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo are described
in paras. 9-12.
3.        In order to further support the development of the industry, the
Mexican Government established FONATUR (Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo)
in January 1974 as a trust fund in Nacional Financiera (NAFINSA), by merg-
ing INFRATUR with the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento al Turismo (FOGATUR).
FOGATUR was created as a trust fund of Nacional Financiera in 1956 to
provide a flexible tourism financing instrument, especially for hotels.
FOGATUR was involved in a broad range of activities, including: (a) guaran-
teeing credits and bonds issued by private institutions to finance tourism
activities; (b) acquiring temporarily equity of enterprises engaged in
tourism activities; (c) acquiring shares and bonds of private tourism
enterprises; (d) rediscounting term loans of private credit institutions
disbursed for tourism development; and (e) opening credit lines to private
credit institutions for on-lending or granting credit directly for tourism
projects. Although engaged in a wide range of activities, FOGATUR had not
been very active since its inception. It was only after INFRATUR and
FOGATUR were merged that the hotel credit activities increased dramatically.



ANNEX VI
Page 2
4.        With the merging of the two trust funds, a single government
agency is now responsible for promoting and developing infrastructure and
financing tourism superstructure facilities. In addition, FONATUR has
acquired majority interest in a national hotel chain (Nacional Hotelera),
which both owns and specializes in the management and operation of hotels
in Mexico.
5.        In recent months, FONATUR has been given additional and increased
responsibilities in the field of tourism. Early in 1976, a new trust fund
was created to tackle the problems of Acapulco and a director of FONATUR
was appointed Director General of the fund. Similarly, a large tourism
development project at Nueva Vallarta (near Puerto Vallarta) has been handed
over to FONATUR.
B. FONATUR's Organization
6.        As presently set up, FONATUR has two operating departments, the
Development Department, which is responsible for infrastructure projects,
and the Operations Department, which is responsible for hotel credit
(Attachment 1). The present Director General and the heads of both Depart-
ments are able and highly qualified managers.
7.        FONATUR's management reports to a nine-man Board comprising six
government officials and three representatives of the private sector, the
latter appointed by organizations representing industry, agriculture and
labor (Attachment 2). The Board, which is chaired by the Secretary of
Tourism, meets at least every two months and is responsible for determining
FONATUR policies and approving infrastructure development projects. A Loan
Committee, which meets monthly and is composed of four of the above Board
members, is responsible for approving hotel and other financing.
8.        FONATUR has about 195 persons directly on its payroll, and 76
persons employed on a temporary or consulting basis.
C. FONATUR's Tourism Infrastructure Operations
9.        With a mandate to diversify tourism destinations in Mexico,
FONATUR (then INFRATUR) selected two areas to develop after an elaborate
exercise that took into account market, economic, touristic, social and
other factors. These areas were Cancun, located on the coast of Yucatan
and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo on Mexico's Pacific coast. In January 1972, the
Bank made a loan of US$22 million equivalent to help finance the provision
of infrastructure for Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo which had been costed at US$44
million. Earlier, in August 1971, the Inter-American Development Bank
made a loan of US$21.5 million for similar facilities at Cancun in the
Yucatan peninsula.



ANNEX VI
Page 3
10.       The project at Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo would in its first stage pro-
vide infrastructure that would support the development of 3,500 hotel rooms
and 500 single-family houses. The project comprised three main elements.
The first included the principal infrastructures: roads and streets,
water and sewerage systems, electric power and telecommunications--needed
to develop the resort at Ixtapa itself. The second consisted of infra-
structure facilities for the town of Zihuatanejo which would develop as
both a service center and a secondary tourist attraction. The third main
component of the project was the construction of an international airport
designed to cater for non-stop flights from major US cities. The project
also made provisions for hotel training.
11.       After encountering some delays due largely to land acquisition
problems, the project is now nearing completion, with most of the Bank's
loan expected to be disbursed by June 30, 1977. The airport has been open
for over a year and is serving both Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo, as well as the
rapidly expanding industrial town of Lazaro Cardenas which is an hour's
drive from the airport. The physical facilities of the town of Zihuatanejo
have greatly improved since the project got underway. The population has
grown from 4,000 to over 10,000 and is expected to grow much faster than
estimated at the time of appraisal. In the tourist zone of Ixtapa, two
hotels are open for business (534 rooms) and several others are under
construction. By June 1977, about 1,500 rooms are expected to be available
and in 1978 FONATUR intends to begin implementation of the second stage of
the project.
12.       The project in Cancun was of similar proportions, with the first
phase already implemented. As of September 1976, 2,300 hotel and condominium
rooms were completed and several hundred more were under construction. A
whole new city was developed nearby which now has a population of over
10,000. Early in 1976, IDB approved another loan of US$20 million to finance
the second stage expansion of the Cancun resort.
13.       The urban development and social impact aspects of the projects
are described in detail in Annex XI.
D. FONATUR's Operating Policy for Infrastructure Projects
14.       With respect to FONATUR's infrastructure investments, its basic
financial objective as an entity responsible for promotion and development
of tourism estates is the recovery of its investments and the earning of a
reasonable rate of return. This objective is being achieved by selling
developed land to potential hotel and other investors. FONATUR's operating
policy calls for all developed land for the sites of hotels and other
superstructure to be sold, not leased, with the condition that no land
be acquired for speculative purposes. A further stipulation is that the



ANNEX VI
Page 4
land be used within a reasonable period of time. FONATUR's land sales
arrangements are:
(a) on a cash basis;
(b) on a deferred payment basis; and
(c) by providing the site as equity contribution to indi-
- vidual projects.
15.       To attract the first investors, FONATUR is charging relatively low
prices for the developed land compared to the cost of developed land at other
d2stinations on the coast in Mexico. They range from Mex$150 to Mex$450 per
m , with investors paying 15-20% down, and the rest in three to five years
at 12% interest.
E. FONATUR's Hotel Credit Operations
16.       Much of the hotel expansion in Mexico in recent years has been due
largely to the active role played by FONATUR. Since its establishment in
early 1973, FONATUR has been supplying the bulk of hotel credit by redis-
counting hotel term loans of private and public financial institutions.
FONATUR rediscounts 90% of the term loans and the remainder is financed by
financial intermediaries. The interest spread for the intermediaries is
2-3% with the ultimate borrower paying an interest rate of 10-12% for a
loan of 10-15 years and a grace period of two to three years.
17.       Through its hotel development arm, FONATUR is in the unique posi-
tion of being able to invest in superstructure to complement the investment
in infrastructure, both through equity participation and loan financing.
Although it has not developed any operating policy for its superstructure
investments--as it has for its infrastructure projects, FONATUR realizes
the importance of concentrating on hotel projects that are likely to provide
the highest yields to the economy. It is for this reason that it is chan-
neling some of its credits to the project areas of Cancun and Ixtapa-
Zihuatanejo. As of September 30, 1976, FONATUR had financed 15 hotels
(2,322 rooms) at Cancun and 4 hotels (1,069 rooms) at Ixtapa which required
Mex$540 million and Mex$474 million, respectively, and represented 48% of
the total hotel investment in Cancun and 86% in Ixtapa.
F. FONATUR's Financial Status
18.       The overall financial position of FONATUR is sound with adequate
net working capital generated from its operations. As FONATUR's operations
have expanded since its establishment by the merger of INFRATUR and
FOGATUR in 1973, the total assets increased from Mex$0.8 billion to
Mex$5.1 billion in August 1976.  The total capital employed by FONATUR
amounted to Mex$4.7 billion, of which FONATUR invested Mex$1.8 billion in
the development of infrastructure and Mex$2.9 billion in its hotel credit
operations.



ANNEX VI
Page 5
19.       With respect to the development of infrastructure, FONATUR in-
vestment has been confined to two selected areas, Mex$l.l billion in
Cancun and Mex$0.7 billion in Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo. Most of the invest-
ment funds were allocated as Government equity contribution, including
government budget allocation (Mex$1.25 billion) and loans from IBRD
(Mex$0.14 billion) and IDB (Mex$0.17 billion). While the construction of
infrastructure at each project site in the initial development stage is
nearing completion, FONATUR has already been earning a significant amount
of surplus in cash flow terms from sale of the land and other developed
facilities, showing an increase in accumulated surplus from Mex$37 million
in 1973 to Mex$240 million in August 1976.
20.       The volume of FONATUR's hotel credit operations has expanded much
faster than the volume of infrastructural development. As of August 31,
1976, FONATUR approved 378 credit applications for a total of Mex$2.8
billion to finance about 19,000 rooms throughout the country. Of this
total, Mex$1.9 billion had been disbursed as of August 31, 1976. The source
of funds for FONATUR's credit operations has been the federal budget,
Banco de Mexico bond issues and retained earnings from its credit opera-
tions. As of August 31, 1976, FONATUR's resources amounted to Mex$2.9 bil-
lion, including Mex$1.7 billion raised by Banco de Mexico through bond
issues at an interest rate of 8% for a term of 8 years, and Mex$0.1 billion
earned from its operations.
G. Prospects for the Future
21.       While the Government has been providing FONATUR with full finan-
cial support for the development of infrastructure, including the payment
of debt service for external funds financed by foreign institutions, e.g.,
IBRD and IDB, its financial support for FONATUR's hotel credit operations
has been insufficient to cope with the rapid increase in the demand for
hotel development in the country. FONATUR's resources appear to be too
limited to support the further expansion of hotels. For 1977, FONATUR
has proposed a total budget of Mex$1.8 billion and is depending on the
following sources to finance it: Government budget allocations (Mex$500
million), bonds taken up by Banco de Mexico (Mex$500 million) and retained
earnings (Mex$450 million).    Of this total budget, Mex$1.0 billion is
allocated for the 1977 lending program and the remaining Mex$0.8 billion
to cover debt services to Banco de Mexico and operating costs. Since the
lending program includes a total disbursement of Mex$900 million for the
loans already committed for in previous years, funds available for new
hotels are very limited. FONATUR will also have to continue to depend
upon the Federal Government for financial support if it has to continue
providing tourism infrastructure, until the developments it has promoted
become more mature.
22.       The prospects for continued growth of tourism to Mexico are
bright, particularly with the recent devaluations of the peso which is
expected to accelerate an increase in vacation tourism to Mexico. Along



ANNEX VI
Page 6
with the proposed project for opening up new resort areas at San Jose del
Cabo and Nopolo/Loreto in Baja California, FONATUR expects to continue
financing hotels and other superstructure facilities. Although debt
financing from other s.ources might be possible to finance hotel develop-
.ment, including foreign borrowings, suppliers' credit and domestic bond
issues, it appears at least for the time-being, that the Government will
have to rely on FONATUR's discounting facility to encourage the interest
of financial institutions and private groups in future hotel investment.
In view of the current budgetary constraints and credit squeezes, however,
it is not clear whether FONATUR can rely entirely on government budgetary
allocations and bond issues from Banco de Mexico in order to enable it to
continue to lend in any significant way.



ANIU VI
Attachment 1
FM,TUR' S ORGWIUIZTION Al
Techlieial and Funtd                       Credit      |
lAllocating Gon=tteo                       Joite
Aulorr                                                            Adviso_s
Director                                                                                                               re t r
for Development                                                                                                     for 0 er t
(6)                                                                                                                     (9
I-Planning and   1Lg                                                                              Personnel                     investmt
Economic Studies                       Couneisellor              Controllers                      Unit                        Promotion
Unit      (13)                             (      )                  (4)                            (4)                       Unit _7)
Oaxaca Project                                                                                                            Cr
Unit       (3j                                                        Uit Crde&Finance 
Unit  (3)   jUnit                                                                                                          (12)
Cancun Project                                                                  Unit            |                                       _
Unit  (13)                                                                                                            L
Ixtap--Zihu-ta-
nejo Project
Unit       (23)
Mar,keting & Pr,m--
tion   Unit  (6)
Field Unit                 Field Unit        Field     t Fioie   unit
I/ Iigures in  |a are the  r of  |taff positionsallocatedtoeachunit.Cabo)
_1/ Figures in parenthesis are the number of staff positions allocated to each unit.



ANNEX VI
Attachment 2
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
MEMBERS OF THE TECHNICAL AND FUND ALLOCATING COMMITTEE
(FONATUR'S BOARD)
(1) Secretariat of Tourism (*)
(2) Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
(3) Secretariat of the Treasury and Public Credit (*)
(4) Secretariat of National Patrimony and Industrial
Development (*)
(5) Banco de Mexico
(6) Nacional Financiera, S.A. (*)
(7) Confederation of the National Chambers of Commerce
and Industry
(8) Permanent National Agrarian Congress
(9) Congress of Labor
(*) Members of the Credit Loan Committee



ANNEX VII
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
MARKET DEMAND
Present Visitor Traffic
1.       Total foreign visitor arrivals to Mexico increased by an average
of 10% per annum during the period of 1956-1976, reaching an estimated
number of 3.33 million in 1976.1/ Foreign visitors'2/ growth has also
been quite even. In no year since 1961, except 1974 and 1975, has the
growth rate been less than 8.6%. Although visitor arrivals to Mexico
declined by 4.3% from the 1974 peak of 3.36 million to 3.22 million in
1975, the number of foreign visitors continued to increase at a relatively
fast pace during the early 1970's and showed some recovery in 1976. The
decline in visitor traffic experienced in 1975 was the first since 1953
and was due to world-wide economic recession and to Mexico's uncompetitive
position resulting from a strongly over valued peso.3/ The peso was
allowed to float in September 1976.
2.       Table 1 shows the growth in foreign visitor arrivals for the
period 1970-1976.
Table 1. Foreign Visitor Arrivals ('000)
Country                                                      Average Annual
of                                                         Growth Rate (%)
Origin   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   70/74    70/76
US      1,980  2,210  2,540  2,760  2,860  2,720  2,870         9.7      6.4
Canada      70     80    100    120    130    120    130    16.7         10.9
Other     200    220    270    360    370    380    330    16.6           8.7
Total 2,250  2,510  2,910  3,240  3,360  3,220  3,330    10.5          6.8
1/  Mexico is a major international tourist destination, attracting in 1975
an estimated 1.4% of the total international trips and around 2.5% of
the world revenues from tourism which were estimated at some US$33
billion in 1975.
2/ Foreign visitors include Mexicans residing abroad.
3/  The visitor traffic in 1976 was also affected by the Jewish boycott and
by some events that kept more tourists than normal in North America, such
as the U.S. Bicentennial celebrations and the Montreal Olympics.



ANNEX YII
Page 2
3.       Air traffic to Mexico grew at a faster pace than the total visitor
traffic, the average annual rate being 16% in 1970-74 and 11% in 1970-76.
The number of foreign viSitor arrivals by air accounted for 50% of the
total arrivals in 1976, compared with 40% in 1970 (Table 2).
Table 2. Foreign Visitor Arrifvals by Mode of Travel ('000)
Average Annual
Growth Rate (%)
1970     (%)   1974   1975   1976    (%)    1970/74   1970/76
By Air       889   ( 40)  1,610  1,561  1,655  ( 50)          16.1       10.9
Other      1,361   ( 60)  1,750  1,657  1,675  ( 50)           6.5        3.4
Total  2,250   (100)  3,362  3,218  3,330  (100)          10.5       6.8
4.       Another important factor to assess the volume of overall tourism
activities in Mexico is the average length of stay of tourists. Based on
1976 statistics, foreign visitors spent a total of 35 million nights in
the country, which averaged out to a stay of 10.5 nights per visitor in
that year. While statistics on the average length of stay of foreign
visitors by tourist destinations in the country are not available, hotel
statistics indicate that foreign visitors stay in the major tourist
areas, e.g., Mexico City, Acapulco, Puerto Vallarta, etc., for some 4
nights, suggesting a typical multi-stop trip to Mexico.
5.       The domestic market for tourism is also quite important in Mexico.
With growing affluence of Mexico's middle class and the initiation of a
five day week, this market rapidly developed to reach some 16.5 million
visits to tourist destinations in 1975.  Although no precise estimates were
available on the size of the market in the past, its growth rate seems to
have been similar to that of the number of visitors from abroad. However,
since the length of stay in tourist destinations of locals is on the
average some 1.9 days, the volume of local tourism represents only some 31
million guest nights. Nevertheless, local tourism represents a share of
total tourism activities that is very high compared with similar countries.
Mexicans make up an estimated 34-40% of guests in hotels of international
class (i.e., AA and A and B) and the large majority in hotels of lower
quality. Mexico's three largest cities, Mexico City, Guadalajara, and
Monterrey, had 13.5 million inhabitants in 1975 which represents half of
the country's urban and most of the high income population, and have
been identified by FONATUR as generating most of Mexican visitors to
domestic resorts. Among such inhabitants FONATUR estimates that 40 to 45%
earn over Mex$3,000 per month (US$240) and that 7% earn over Mex$7,000
per month (US$560).
Future Visitor Traffic
6.       Mexico benefits from its abundant touristic attractions and from
its proximity to one of the largest tourist generating markets, the United States.



ANNEX VII
Page 3
The number of US visitors going abroad, except to Canada, increased
from 4.7 million in 1967 to 9.8 million in 1975 or at an average rate of
9.6% per year, although in 1974 and 1975 the number of such visitors
declined as a result of the recession in the US (the rate of growth up
to 1973 was 13.2%). Mexico's experience in the development of tourism in
the past indicates that the overall size of Mexico's tourism and its
growth depends heavily on the neighboring US travel market. Over 85%
of all foreign visitors to Mexico come from the US and over 50% come
from two states in the US--California and Texas. With the resumption of
growth of the US economy, albeit at a slower rate than in the past, and
with the steep devaluation of the peso in the fall of 19761/, the growth
of foreign tourism to Mexico can be expected to resume although probably
less dynamically than in the past.
7.       FONATUR projects that foreign tourism to Mexico would grow at
an annual average rate of 9% over the next 10 years. This implies that
the number of foreign visitor arrivals would increase from the estimated
figure of 3.3 million in 1976 to 4.7 million in 1980 and 7.2 million by
1985. While FONATUR's projections may be an attainable target based on
past experience, the mission assumes an annual average rate of 6% over the
same period, increasing from 3.3 million in 1976 to 4.2 million in 1980
and 5.6 million by 1985.
8.       Based on the mission's assumptions on the likely growth of foreign
visitors to Mexico and assuming the average length of stay of foreign
visitors to remain at 10 nights, the volume of foreign tourism to Mexico
would increase to 43 million tourist nights in 1980 and 56 million tourist
nights by 1985. If domestic tourism in Mexico would grow at a similar rate
of 6% per annum, it would add another 39 million nights in 1980 and 67
million nights in 1985. The projected traffic and volume of both foreign
and domestic tourism in Mexico at 9% and 6% growth rates is summarized below:
Table 3. Visitor Projections to Mexico
(in millions)
1976    1980    1985    1990
(Estimated)
Number of Visitors
Foreigners (growth rate 9%)        3.3      4.7      7.2    11.1
Foreigners (growth rate 6%)        3.3      4.2      5.6      7.5
Mexicans (growth rate 9%)         16.5    23.3    35.8    55.1
Mexicans (growth rate 6%)         16.5    20.3    27.9    37.3
Number of Visitor Nights
Foreigners (growth rate 9%)       35.0    49.4    76.0   117.0
Foreigners (growth rate 6%)       35.0    43.0    59.1    79.1
Mexicans (growth rate 9%)         31.0    43.8    67.3   103.6
Mexicans (growth rate 6%)         31.0    39.1    52.4    70.1
1/  The peso was devalued from 12.5 to around 20 to the US$ in late August
1976 and has fluctuated in the low to mid-twenties ever since.



ANNEX VII
Page 4
9.       In order to further develop tourism in Mexico, the Mexican
Government plans to further invest in both tourism infrastructure and
touristic facilities. As part of this plan, FONATUR has been expanding
existing, and opening up new destinations and is financing hotels all
over the country. The expansion of touristic facilities, together with
better utilization of existing capacity, are expected to be consistent
with the market growth assumptions of the mission. In addition, the
Government has been making determined efforts to increase direct flights
from major tourist generating points in the US   to Mexico that link up
with various tourist destinations in the country. Given the current
competitive price levels for foreign tourists resulting from the recent
devaluation of the peso and Mexicans' strong interest in the development
and promotion of international tourism, it is reasonable to assume that
the number of foreign visitor arrivals and their staying nights projected
by the mission is an attainable target. Similarly, the development of
domestic tourism should continue to grow by at least 6%, since vacations
abroad have become more expensive for Mexicansl/, which should offset the
likely slowdown in Mexicans' total tourist expenditures growth resulting
from austerity measures being imposed by the Government.
10.      Market targets for the Baja California project have been esta-
blished on the basis of projected hotel, apartel, condominium and villa
developments at Loreto and San Jose del Cabo and their likely utilization.
Starting from 800 rooms to be built in 1980, the planned phasing calls for
6,150 hotel and apartel rooms and 2,330 condominium and villa rooms to be
operational by 1990. Table 4 shows the buildup of accommodation capacity
planned for the project areas. Roughly 70% of all visitors to the project
areas are expected to be foreigners (78% in Loreto and 61% in San Jose
del Cabo). Based on experience of other Mexican resorts, hotel and apartel
room occupancies are projected to be 50% in the first year of operation
increasing to 70% by the fifth year, with double occupancy factors of 1.8
guests per room and average lengths of stay of 4 days for foreigners and
3 for Mexicans. Condominia and villa room occupancies are projected at
50% in the first and later years, with double occupancy factors of 2.5 guests
per room and average length of stay for foreigners of 6 days, and for
Mexicans 10. On the basis of these estimates and assumptions, the market
targets for the project areas would be 880,000 visitors (3.9 million
visitor nights) in 1990. The number of visitors has been calculated under
the assumption that they visit only one of the two project areas in the
course of a trip to Baja California. Therefore, the target number of
visitors will be less than stated above if some tourists (possibly up to
a fourth, and mostly car travellers) visit both project areas. Some
foreign visitors are expected to visit other parts of Mexico as well as
the project areas, since multi-destination trips are typical of foreign
visitors to Mexico. Table 5 shows the target visitor traffic and volume
to the project areas.
1/ The expenditures of Mexican tourists abroad reached some US$400 million
in 1975 after having grown at 16.5% per year on average since 1960, and
at 19% since 1970.



ANNEX VII
Page 5
Table 4. Accommodation Buildup
1980         1985         1990
Loreto
Hotels and Apartels                 400         2,600        3,000
Villas and Condominia                  -          710        1,410
Total                           400        3,310         4,410
San Jose del Cabo
Hotels and Apartels                 400         2,350        3,150
Villas and Condominia                  -          405          920
Total                           400        2,755         4,070
Table 5. Target Visitors and Guest Nights
in Loreto and San Jose del Cabo
1980/811/             1985/86                    1990/91
Loreto  San Jose    Loreto  San Jose    Loreto              San Jose
Visitors             ('000)    ('000)      ('000)   ('000)   (000)  ()    (000)  ()
Nationality:
Mexicans             6        12          69       106    100  (22.5)   172  (38.8)
Foreigners          27        21         251       171    341  (77.5)   271  (61.2)
Total               33        33         320       277    441 (100.0)   443 (100.0)
Guest Nights
Nationality:
Mexicans            19        37         319       410    526  (25.7)   725  (39.1)
Foreigners         108        86        1097       709   1523  (74.3)  1130  (60.9)
Total             127       123         1416      1119   2049 (100.0)  1855 (100.0)
1/  Since year 1 of operations begins on July 1, 1980, these periods run from
mid-to-mid years rather than corresponding to calendar years.



ANNEX VII
Page 6
11.      The target figures for the project areas are in the range of
0.3 - 3.0% of the overall market prQjections for the number of guest
nights spent in Mexico over the 1980-1990 period under the more conservative
(6% growth) estimate made in para. 7 (the-range is. 0.5 - 4.0% in the case
of foreign visitors and 0.2 - 2.0% in the case of Mexicans). These
figures are reasonably attainable if adequate air access and promotion are
provided.
12.      FONATUR has undertaken market studies for the Baja California
resorts that indicate that in the case of foreign tourists the project will
mainly appeal to the market from the southwestern parts of the US   and
in particular from the state of California. They also show that these
resorts will have to compete with Southern California and Hawaiian resorts
in addition to other northwestern Mexican resorts. The studies further
indicate that more than two-thirds of the tourists would come by air and
that the majority would need first-class rather than luxury-type accommo-
dation. In the case of Mexicans, FONATUR studies indicate that the project
resorts will attract visitors from urban areas, mostly from Mexico City,
Guadalajara and Monterrey, part of whom would normally travel to north-
western Mexico (in particular to Mazatlan and Puerto Vallarta) and to the
southwestern parts of the US.
13.      The main market segments interested in Baja California are the
following:
(a)  US   visitors to southern California who travel by air;
(b)  US   visitors to Hawaii;
(c)  Canadian visitors to the west coast of the US   who
travel by air;
(d) Car travellers from California, Nevada, Utah, and
Arizona who travel more than 2,000 miles roundtrip; and
(e)  Foreign and Mexican visitors to Mexico's northern Pacific
resorts, mainly to Mazatlan and Puerto Vallarta.
14.      Market segment (a), southetn California, which comprises the
San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego area, is one of the most important
tourist destinations in America. In 1975, southern Californian resorts
received around 8.5 million visitors of which some 70% were pleasure-
motivated, over 50% arrived by air, and more than 5 million originated
from the state of California itself. The revenues derived from such
visitors reached almost US$2,500 million in the same year, and the growth
of visitor traffic has been 4% per year on average over the 1960-1975
period.
15.      Market segment (b), Hawaii, is also one of the world's major
tourism destinations. In 1975, Hawaii received some 2.8 million visitors,
of which about 80% came from the mainland US.   Of this total 70% were



ANNEX VII
Page 7
pleasure motivated and they spent US$1,100 million. The average length of
stay of visitors is similar to that of foreign visitors to Mexico, i.e.,
around 10 days. The growth of visitor traffic has been 16.2% per year on
average over the 1960-1975 period.
16.      As regards segment (c), almost 10 million Canadians travelled to
the U S for a stay of more than one day in 1975, of which over a quarter
had the west coast as the final destination. A similar fraction travelled
to the US by air.     Their average length of stay was around 9 days.  This
segment grew at 4.4% per year on average since 1960.
17.      In relation to segment (d), the states of California, Utah, Nevada
and Arizona generated about 18 million pleasure motivated person trips1/
by car in 1972 with California accounting for almost 16 million of such per-
son-trips.2/ Some 9% of the trips entailed travel distances between 1,0 0
and 2,000 miles roundtrip, and 17% over 2,000 miles and/or travelling abroad.
In comparison to these, the roundtrip distances from the Los Angeles area to
Loreto and San Jose del Cabo are some 1,850 and 2,700 miles respectively,
and from Phoenix 2,200 and 3,050 miles.
18.      In relation to the last segment (e), Mazatlan and Puerto Vallarta
are two of Mexico's important and fastest growing resorts on the Pacific
coast. Mazatlan, located just across the Gulf of California (or Sea of
Cortez) from southern Baja California, received some 360,000 visitors
in 1975, of which just over half were foreigners.   The number of visitors
grew at 16.1% per year on average since 1968 (the number of Mexican
visitors grew at 14.9%, and foreign visitors at 17.4%). Puerto Vallarta,
located in the state of Jalisco some 400 km south of Mazatlan, received
some 280,000 visitors in 1975, of which some 40% were foreigners. The number
of visitors grew at 21% per year on average since 1968 (20% in the case of
Mexicans and 23% in the case of foreigners).
19.      Based on econometric studies./, FONATUR projects that segment (a)
of the market can expect to grow at an average of 2.2% per year, segment
(b) 8.3%, segment (c) 4.4%, segment (d) 1.2% and segment (e) 9.9%. Pro-
jecting the growth of each segment with these rates, the target number of
visitors to the project areas by 1990 would represent only some 1% of the
potential market attributed to the segments defined above which clearly do
not exhaust the market.
1/ Only those that travel more than 200 miles roundtrip are included.
2/ Source: U.S. Census of Transportation.
3/  Population growth and personal income have been used as the main
explanatory variables.
4/ The potential market is composed of travel flow segments, rather than
population segments. Accordingly the travel flow segment will be larger
than the population segment, since some people are likely to travel
more than once in a one-year period.



ANNEX VII
Page 8
20.      A question arises as to whether all visitor nights spent in the
project areas will be incremental to Mexico, i.e., whether the projected
visitors would have come to Mexico and stay in other resorts even without
the project. Since the project clearly competes with other Mexican desti-
nations, it has been conservatively assumed that 40% of foreign visitors
coming to Loreto and 60% of those coming to San Jose del Cabo and 75% of
Mexican visitors coming to both resorts are diverted from other Mexican
destinations inasmuch as capacity to accommodate them is available there.
This question, which seriously affects the project's economic evaluation,
is examined further in Annex X.
21.      Given that the project meets the major criteria that draw visitors
to a given area: the natural attractiveness of the tourist destination,
the cost of the vacation (including the cost of transportation to the
destination and the convenience of getting there) and the level of income
of the tourist generating countries, the target number of visitors to the
project areas--both as a proportion to total projected volume of tourism
to Mexico and as a proportion of the projected potential market--are
reasonably conservative. In order to compete with destinations in southern
California and Hawaii, however, comparable facilities need to be provided.
Room tariffs in southern California and Hawaii averaged some US$26 and
US$30 per night in 1975 respectively. The market strategy for Baja
California calls for construction of facilities of good quality (at least
as good as the average quality of those in these competing destinations)
to be provided to visitors at prices similar or lower than in southern
California and Hawaii. The projected average hotel room tariff in the
two project areas in late 1976 prices is US$25 per night (Annex VIII).
22.      The proposed project, due to its location and design, is expected
to be visited by foreign visitors who travel predominantly by air. Exper-
ience at other resorts, particularly in Acapulco, has demonstrated that to
attract large numbers of foreign visitors by air to Mexico requires pro-
vision of direct flights.                                  Whereas the air-
port at San Jose del Cabo is already included in the bilateral air agree-
ment with the US   and can be served by both US   and Mexican airlines
from Los Angeles, the Loreto airport is not but will have to be included
in a bilateral agreement before the project is completed, so that direct
air services can be initiated by the time the first two hotels open for
business (Annex III, paras. 19-20). The flying time from Los Angeles to
Loreto, for example, would be just over 1 hours, and to San Jose del Cabo
2 hours, as compared to more than 5 hours to Hawaii. On back-to-back air
charter basis, travelling to Baja California from Los Angeles would there-
fore cost around US$100, as compared to almost US$200 to Hawaii. In addi-
tion to coming by air, it is expected that about one-third of the visitors
will arrive by road, using the recently completed 1700 km paved highway
that connects the US border with the tip of the Baja California peninsula,
and touches on both Loreto and San Jose del Cabo. New ferry services are
being operated, or will soon begin operating, connecting the project areas
with Guyamas, Mazatlan and Puerto Vallarta. This will further increase ac-
cessibility of the project areas for those coming by car and will also make
possible visits to other parts of Mexico in the course of one trip.



ANNEX VII
Page 9
23.      By mid-1976 foreign visitors to Mexico spent an average of US$24
per day, with visitors arriving by air spending more than US$38 per day
(Annex V). At present, and due to the distance of Mexico's existing
resorts to the border with the US    few foreign car travellers visit
such resorts; they normally stay close to the border (see Annex V for the
distinction of border traffic) and have low daily expenditures. Average
daily expenditures in the project areas in Baja California are expected to
be as follows:
Loreto                            San Jose del Cabo
Mexicans   Foreigners  All Tourists    Mexicans  Foreigners  All Tourists
(25.7%)!!   (74.3%)        (100%)         (39.1%)   (60.9%)         (100%)
US$      25.8         39.0          35.6             2.1       42.7           37.0
1/ Proportion of total guest nights spent.
The average figures for foreign visitors to the project areas are a little
more than the average for foreign air travellers to Mexico as a whole (some of
whom come to visit friends and relatives and, since they do not use paid
accommodation and spend little per day, do not represent typical resort visitors),
but less than for foreign tourists to Mexico who stay 10 days or less in the
country and spent over US$45 per day in 1975, for those who come on charter
groups (US$60 in 1976), and for those visiting destinations such as Cancun and
Ixtapa (US$48). As a reflection of the erosion of Mexican's purchasing
power in dollar terms after devaluation, the projected expenditures of Mexican
tourists are also lower than recent experience in Mexican resorts indicates
(over US$45 per day in Cancun in mid-1976). The projected level of expendi-
tures takes into account the higher than normal expenditures (in dollar terms)
in mid-1976 due to the overvalued peso. Overall, the expenditure projections
are therefore reasonably conservative and consistent with the facilities
offered.
24.      Based on experience in Cancun, the breakdown of projected average
expenditures of foreign visitors is calculated to be as follows:
Items                                       Percentage
Accommodation, food and beverages                58
Entertainment                                    14
Local transportation (including guides)          11
Shopping                                         12
Other (including tips)                            5
Total                                           100
The expenditure breakdown of Mexican visitors is likely to be slightly different.
Domestic visitors are e:xpected to spend a higher proportion on accommodation
and less on local transportation and shopping.



ANNEX VIII
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF ACCOMMODATION FACILITIES
1.        The project calls for a gradual buildup  of accommodation capacity
at the two sites over the 1980-1987 period with 6,150 rooms to be completed
by 1987: 3,150 rooms at San Jose del Cabo and 3,000 rooms at Loreto. Most ac-
commodation at the two sites will be of two types, hotels and apartels (apart-
ment hotel), and will be of three categories as described below:
HOTEL DEVELOPMENT
(Number of Rooms)
San Jose del Cabo                              Loreto
Year     Hotel    Apartel   Total                  Hotel      Apartel   Total
1980       250        150       400                  250         150      400
1981       100        200       300                  100         400      500
1982       100        200       300                  100         300      400
1983       100        300       400                  150         250      400
1984       150        300       450                  100         500      600
1985       200        300       500                  100         200       300
1986       100        300       400                  100         100      200
1987       100        300      400                   100         100      200
Total    1,100      2,050    3,150                 1,000       2,000    3,000
Categories:
AA         165        310       475                  150         300       450
A          770      1,430    2,200                   700       1,400    2,100
B          165        310       475                  150         300       450
1,100     2,050    3,150                 1,000       2,000    3,000
2.        The major difference between hotel and apartel is characterized by
the type of ownership and operation. While hotels are owned as a unit, norm-
ally by groups or companies, apartels generally are owned by numerous indi-
viduals who buy the units from developers. The operation of apartels is
quite similar to that of hotels in terms of earnings from room rent and



ANNEX VIII
Page 2
other services, with the exception of the following concepts:
(a) individual owners of apartels have the right to use
the units (or rooms) once a year for a limited
period of time (e.g., 25 days). During the rest of
the year the units (or rooms) are to be made avail-
able for rental purposes;
(b) profits generated from renting rooms and providing
other services to tourists are to be shared by
individual owners, in accordance with conditions
stipulated in the agreements between the developers
or managers of the units and individual owners; and
(c) although apartel rooms are rented out in the same
way as hotels and usually for similar prices, they
generally have simple cooking facilities designed
to serve "the self-catering" tourist. These tourists
spend less on food and beverages than the typical
hotel guest.
3.        Past experience in Mexico has shown that there are two types of
apartels; one which is developed along the lines of a pure hotel in terms
of design and operation; and the other which is developed as a mixture of
hotel and apartment complex (i.e.,the hotel arid apartment buildings are
attached to each other in the same complex). It is projected that the
development of apartels in project areas will be of the latter type, with
the apartments managed the same way as hotel rooms.
Projections
4.        In order to test the financial viability of hotels and apartels
projected for the two areas, separate operating projections have been made
for a typical 250-room hotel and a 250-room apartel. These models are of
the "A category" type and projections are based on experience of comparable
facilities in Mexico. (These projections are valid also for the proposed
first hotels to be financed under the project.) A summary of these
projections are shown in Tables 1 to 6 of this Annex, and show that the
apartel is financially more attractive than the hotel, due largely to lower
operating and capital costs. An added attractive financial feature for
promotion of apartels is that they do not have to depend on one or two
sources for equity, but can distribute the risk among several hundred in-
dividual owners. Furthermore, apartel developers are in a position to
raise capital by selling the units to individual investors in advance. In
view of the above, it is expected that the demand of potential promoters,
developers and investors for such apartel development would increase in
the future, and is therefore reflected in the proposed development plan
for the project. The projections for the model hotel and apartel have been



ANNEX VIII
Page 3
based on the following assumptions:
Revenue Assumptions
5.        The following assumptions on room sales have been used for both
the hotel and apartel projections assuming that the apartel room rates will
be the same as hotel room rates and that both would experience a similar
level of occupancy. On the other hand, different assumptions on food and
beverage sales have been used for the apartel projections assuming that
many of the guests staying in these facilities will not use the restaurant
and bar facilities as in the case of hotels.
6.        Occupancy has been calculated on an annual per room basis, taking
into account seasonality of operations. It is estimated that average oc-
cupancy rates would be at 50% in the first year of operation, increasing to
70% in the fifth year of operation. Since the hotels and apartels in the
project area will be moderately priced and are geared more toward economy-
class tourists, it would be reasonable to expect a 90% occupancy rate for
the high season months (mid-November to mid-May) and 50% for the remaining
months, averaging out to an annual occupancy rate of 70% in a typical year
of operation. Double occupancy has been estimated at 1.8 guests per room.
7.        The following assumptions on room rates are in late 1976 prices
and based on the net receipts for hotels after deduction of the 4% sales
tax on room rates and commissions to tour operators.
Room Rates for Double Occupancy (in US$)
Seasonal Room Rate        Annual Average
Hotels/Apartels         High         Low
AA Category              33         24.50                30
A  Category              28         19.50                25
B  Category              23         14.50                20
The average high-season rates for  A  category hotels during the six-month
period when occupancies are 90% would be US$28 and the low-season rates for
the remaining period when occupancies are 50% would be US$19.50 for a
weighted annual average room rate of US$25.
8.        Other sales, including food and beverage sales, have been calculated
on the basis of room sales. For apartel food and beverage sales projections,
it has been assumed that the 250-room apartels would consist of 125 rooms
of the hotel type and that 125 rooms would be in apartments (comparable to
some extent to suites in a hotel) and that only 20% of the guests staying
in the apartments would use the restaurant and bar facilities in the complex.
In other words, the apartels' revenues from food and beverage sales would
amount to 60% of revenues of a typical hotel. The following table summarizes



ANNEX VIII
Page 4
departmental sales ratios used for the projections:
Ratios to Total Sales
Departmental Sales                Hotel          Apartel
(%)              (%)
Room                           50               62
Food                           34               25
Beverage                       14               11
Other                           2                2
Total                     100               100
Operating Cost Assumptions
9.        Cost of sales were based on ratios to departmental sales in the
case of both the hotel and apartel operations. The cost ratios were
estimated at 35% for food costs, 27% for beverage costs and 50% for other
costs (gift shop, telephone, laundry, etc.).
10.       Payroll and related benefit expenses were calculated from staff-
ing tables for hotels based on average wages and related expenses experienced
by comparable hotels in the country, adjusted to reflect the differences in
the types of facilities. The monthly average wage was estimated at US$150
per employee. In addition, fringe benefits were calculated at 30% of the
average wage, for a total monthly average payroll of US$195 per employee.
The average number of employees was estimated at 1.2 per room for the hotel
and 0.8 per room for apartel operations. The estimated payroll costs were
assumed to be fixed for the operating projections.
11.       Other departmental costs which include expenses for guest supplies,
replacement of linen, china and glassware, etc., were also based on ratios
to departmental sales: 8% on room sales and 15% on food and beverage sales.
12.       Undistributed expenses include the costs of administration, promo-
tion, utility and maintenance. These costs were calculated based on ratios
to total sales experienced by comparable hotels in Mexico at an occupancy
level of 60% and have been assumed to be fixed for the projections, with the
exception of the utility costs which are assumed will vary with occupancy.
13.       Management fees are assumed to be a combination of the basic and
the incentive rates: the basic fee would be 3% of the total sales, and the
incentive fee would be 10% of the gross operating profits after deducting
basic management fees. When combined, the total management fee would be 7%
of total sales. In the analysis of the profitability of the "model" or
typical hotel and apartel operations, the projections have been made for two
alternatives; the one with management fees, and the other without management
fees, assuming that some of the hotels would be operated by owning companies
as is increasingly becoming the trend in Mexico.



ANNEX VIII
Page 5
Capital Cost Assumptions
14.       The investment cost of the 250-room hotel in 1976 prices, in-
cluding the cost of land, interest during construction, and working capital,
has been estimated at US$6.73 million (or US$26,950 per room). (Annex I)
The investment cost of a typical 250-room apartel is estimated at US$5.40
million (or US$21,600 per room). The financing plan for hotels and
apartels are assumed to be as follows:
Hotel   (%)      Apartel   (%)
Equity                        2.50  (37)        2.00   (37)
Long-term Loans               4.09  (61)        3.30   (61)
Subtotal                  6.59  (98)         5.30   (98)
Working Capital                .14  ( 2)         .10   ( 2)
Total Capital             6.73 (100)         5.40  (100)
15.       Long-term loans are assumed to carry an interest rate of 12% for
15 years, including a 3-year grace period. The working capital is assumed
to be financed on a short-term basis with an interest rate of 16% for
periods of less than one year. For the purpose of financial analysis,
interest rates have been adjusted in real terms, with a 5% interest rate
indexed for inflation on the long-term loans and 6% on the short-term loans.
Based on a straight line depreciation, the building has been depreciated
over 30 years and furnishing, fixtures and equipment over 10 years.
Deferred expenses and interest during construction have been amortized
for 5 years. Income tax has been calculated at 40% of taxable income from
the first year of operation.
16.       The results of operating projections for the hotel and apartel
are presented in Tables 1 to 6 of this Annex, and include income statements,
cash flow statements and balance sheets.
17.       Based on the above assumptions, the financial projections indicate
that the hotel would be financially viable and have a satisfactory financial
rate of return. Despite low rates of return in the early years of operation,
the hotel would be able to achieve a rate of return on initial equity capital
investment of 12% in the sixth year of operation, increasing to 14% in the
tenth year of operation. The projected sources and application of funds
show that the hotel would be able to generate sufficient operating income
to meet its financial obligations, including debt service, management fees
and reserves to cover replacement costs. Debt service coverage is low in
the first year of operation; however, it is compensated by the input of
equity in this year. Thereafter, the hotel would be able to service debt
satisfactorily. The projected balance sheet indicates that the hotel's



ANNEX VIII
Page 6
financial position would be sound. It is reasonable to expect that dividends
can be paid from the sixth year of operation. Even with payments of dividends
at 10% of the paid-in share capital from the sixth year of operation onward,
its financial position would continue to remain satisfactory.
18.       As to the operations of the apartels, experience shows that apartels
are much more profitable than hotels due to the following factors: while
the units (or rooms) of apartels can be rented out to tourists at similar
room rates as hotels, and catering services provided in the complex at similar
prices as hotels, the operating and capital costs are (comparatively) lower
than the costs of hotels. The operating projections of an apartel show that
it would generate a relatively high rate of return on initial equity capital
investment of 11% in the fourth year of operation, increasing to 17% in the
sixth year of operation. The profits generated will be shared by the indi-
vidual owners, in accordance with conditions agreed upon between the developers
and individual owners. Although such profit sharing is not projected in the
financial forecasts, the financial analysis indicates that the apartel would
be able to pay out dividends at 10% of the paid-in share capital from the
fifth year of operation. After its financial obligations are met, including
debt service, management fees, as well as reserves to cover replacement costs
and payments of dividends, the apartel's financial position would continue to
be sound.



ANNEX VIII
Table 1
MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Pro-forma Income and Expense Statement
(For 250-Room Resort Hotel)
Fiscal Year                                80/81      81/82     82/83      83/84      84/85     85/86      86/87      87/88     88/89      89/90
Operating Year                               1          2          3         4          5         6          7          8          9         10
Room Occupansy (7.)                           50         55        60         65         70         70        70         70         70         70
Sales:
Room                                      1.14       1.25      1.37       1.48       1.59      1.59       1.59       1.59      1.59       1.59
Food                                       .78        .85        .93      1.01       1.09      1.09       1.09       1.09      1.09       1.09
Beve-age                                   .32        .35        .38       .42        .45       .45        .45        .45        .45       .45
Other                                      .04        .06        .06       .06        .06        .06       .06        .06        .06       .06
Total Sales                             2.28      2.51       2.74       2.97      3.19       3.19       3.19       3.19      3.19       3.19
Cost Expenses:
Cost of Sales
Food                                     .27        .30       .33        .35        .38       .38        .38        .38        .38        38
Beverage                                 .09        .09       .10        .11        .12       .12        .12        .12        .12       .12
Other                                    .02        .03       .03        .03        .03       .03        .03        .03        .03       .03
Subtotal                               .38       .42        .46        .49       .53        .53        .53        .53       .53        .53
Payroll                                    .70        .70       .70        .70        .70       .70        .70        .70        .70       .70
Other Departmental Expenses                .27        .30        .33       .36        .38        .38       .38        .36        .38       .38
Total cost and Expenses                 1.35      1.42       1.49       1.55      1.61       1.61       1.61       1.61      1.61       1.61
Gross Income :                               .93       1.09      1.25       1.42       1.58      1.58       1.58       1.58       1.58      1.58
Less
Undistributed Expenses
Administration                             .14        .14        .14       .14        .14        .14       .14        .14        .14        .14
Promotion                                  .08        .08       .08        .08        .08        .08       .08        .08        .08       .08
Heat, light, power                         .09        .10       .11        .12        .13       .13        .13        .13        .13       .13
Maintenance                                .02        .04        .08       .08        .08        .08       .08        .08        .08        .08
Total Expenses                          .33        .36       .41        .42        .43       .43        .43        .43       .43        .43
House Profit:                                .60        .73        .84      1.00       1.15      1.15       1.15       1.15       1.15      1.15
Less: Management Fees                       (.13)      (.15)      (.16)     (.19)      (.21)      (.21)     (.21)      (.21)      (.21)     (.21)
Gross Operating Profit:                      .47        .58        .68       .81        .94        .94       .94        .94        .94        .94
Less:
Capital Expenses
Depreciation                               .28        .28        .28       .28        .28        .28       .28        .28        .28       .28
Amortization                               .12        .12        .12       .12        .10         -         -          .          -
Interest                                   .21        .20       .19        .18        .16        .15       .13        .12        .10       .08
Subtotal                                .61        .60       .59        .58        .54       .43        .41        .40       .38        .36
Profit(or Loss) Before Tax:                 (.14)      (.02)       .09       .23        .40        .51       .53        .54        .56       .58
Income Tax                                  -          -         .04       .09        .16        .20       .21        .22        .22       .23
Net Profit:                                  (.14)     (.02)       .05       .14        .24        .31       .32        .32        .34        .35
Cumulative Net Profit                       (.14)      (.16)      (.11)      .03        .27        .58       .90       1.22      1.56       1.91
Return on Net Fixed Assets                  1.1        3.1       4.5        6.4        8.7      10.6       11.1       11.7      12.6       13.4
Return on Initial Equity                       -         -        2.0       5.5        9.6      12.4       12.8       12.8      13.6       14.0



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Pro-Forma Balance Sheet
For 250-Room Resort Hotel
Fiscal Year                              78/79      79/80     80/81      81/82      12/83      83/84      84/85      85/86      86/87      87/88      88/89      89/90
Operating Year                             -          -          1          2          3         4          5          6          7          8          9          10
Assets:
Net working capital                      -          -          .40        .38       .56        .82       1.14       1.42       1.69       1.95       2.21       2.46
Fixed Assets
Land                                   .45        .45        .45       .45        .45        .45        .45        .45        .45        .45        .45        .45
in working-process                    1.84      5.12         -                -          -         -          -          -          -          -                -
in operation                            -          -       5.56       5.56       5.56       5.56      5.56       5.56       5.56       5.56       5.56       5.56
Less depreciation                       -          -       (.28)      (.56)      (.84)    (1.12)    (1.40)    (1.68)    (1.96)    (2.24)    (2.52)    (2.80)
Net fixed assets                    2.29      5.57       5.73       5.45       5.17       4.89      4.61       4.33       4.05        3.77       3.49      3.21
Other assets                             .07        .24        .46        .34       .22        .10         -          -          -          -          -          -
Total net assets                      2.36      5.81       6.59       6.17       5.95       5.81       5.75       5.75       5.74      5.72       5.70       5.67
Liabilities:
Less:Short-term loans                       -          -         .14         -          -         -          -          -          -         -           -          -
Long-term loans                     .1.39      3.55       4.09       3.83       3.56       3.28       2.98       2.67       2.34       2.00       1.64      1.26
Total liabilities                 1.39       3.55       4.23       3.83       3.56       3.28      2.98       2.67       2.34       2.00       1.64       1.26
Equity:                                    .97       2.26       2.36       2.34      2.39       2.53       2.77       3.08       3.40       3.72       4.06       4.41
Paid in share capital                    .97       2.26      2.50       2.50       2.50       2.50       2.50       2.50       2.50       2.50       2.50       2.50
Retined earnings                          -          -        (.14)     (.16)      (.11)       .03        .27        .58        .90       1.22       1.56       1.91
Debt/Equity Ratio                        59:41     61:39      64:36      62:38      60:40      56:44      52:48      46:54       41:59    35:65       29:71      22:78
H
H
X 



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Pro-forma Cash Flow Statement
For 250-Room Resort Hotel
Fiscal Year                              78/79     79/80      80/81      81/82      82/83      83/84      84/85      85/86      86/87      87/88      88/89      89/90
Operating Year                              -          -        1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10
Source of Funds
Net Operating income                      -          -        (.14)     (.02)       .05        .14        .24        .31        .32        .32        .34        .35
Non-cash changes                       _-            -         .40        .40       .40        .38        .38        .28        .28        .28        .28        .28
Internal cash generation                -          -        .26        .38        .45        .54        .62        .59        .60        .60        .62        .63
Initial Equity Capital                   .97      1.29         .24         -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Long-term loans                         1.39       2.16        .54         -         -          -          -          -          _          _          _          _
Short-term loans                          -          -         .14        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Subtotal                             2.36       3.45        .92         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Total Funds                             2.36      3.45       1.18        .38        .45        .54        .62        .59        .60        .60        .62        .63
Application of Funds
Land                                     .45         -          -
Project Cost                            1.84       3.28        .68
Subtotal                             2.29       3.28        .68         -
Interest during construction             .07        .17        .10         -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Loan Amortization                         _             _        _        .40        .27        .28       .30        .31        .33         .34       .36        .38
Total Applications                    2.36      3.45        .78        .40        .27        .28        .30        .31        .33        .34        .36        .38
Annual Surplus                              -          -         .40       (.02)       .18       .26        .32        .28        .27        .26        .26        .25
Cumulative Surplus                          -          -         .40        .38        .56       .82       1.14       1.42       1.69       1.95       2.21       2.46
Cash generation                             -          -         .47        .58       .64        .72        .78        .74        .73        .72        .72        .71
Debt service                                -          -         .61        .46       .46        .46        .46        .46        .46        .46        .46        .46
Debt service ratio                          -          -         .7        1.3       1.4        1.6        1.7        1.6        1.6        1.6        1.6        1.6
H
wH
H



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Pro-forma Income and Expense Statement
For 250-Room Apartment Hlotel
Fiscal Year                                          80/81      81/82      82/83      83/84      84/85      85/86      86/87      87/88      88/89      89/90
Operating Year                                         1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10
Room Occupancy (7.)                                     50          55        60         65         70         70         70         70         70         70
(in Us Million Dollars)
Sales:
Room                                                1.14       1.25       1.37       1.48       1.59       1.59       1.59       1.59       1.59       1.59
Food                                                 .47        .51        .56        .61        .65        .65        .65        .65        .65        .65
Beverage                                             .19        .21        .23        .25        .27        .27        .27        .27        .27        .27
Other                                                .04        .06        .06        .06        .06        .06        .06        .06        .06        .06
Total Sales                                       1.84       2.03       2.22      2.40       2.57       2.57       2.57       2.57       2.57       2.57
Cost Expense:
Cost of Sales
Food                                               .16        .18        .20        .21        .23        .23        .23        .23        .23        .23
Beverage                                           .05        .06        .06        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07
Other                                              .02        .03        .03        .03        .03        .03        .03        .03        .03        .03
Subtotal                                         .23        .27        .29        .31        .33        .33        .33        .33        .33        .33
Payroll                                              .47        .47        .47        .47        .47        .47        .47        .47        .47        .47
Other Departmental Expenses                          .22        .24        .27        .29        .31        .31        .31        .3l        .31        .31
Total Cost snd Expenses                            .92        .98       1.03       1.07       1.11       1.11      1.11        1.11       1.11       1.11
GROSS INCOME                                            .92      1.05       1.19       1.33       1.46       1.46       1.46       1.46       1.46       1.46
Less
Undistributed Expenses
Administration                                     .11        .11        .11        .11        .11        .11        .11        .11        .11        .11
Promotion                                          .07        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07
Heat, Light, Power                                 .07        .08        .09        .10        .10        .10        .10        .10        .10        .10
Maintenance                                        .02        .04        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07        .07
Total Expenses                                   .27        .30        .34        .35        .35        .35        .35        .35        .35        .35
HOUSE PROFIT                                           .65        .75         .85       .98       1.11       1.11       1.11       1.11       1.11       1.11
Less Management Fees                                   (.12)     (.14)       (.15)     (.17)      (.19)      (.19)      (.19)       (.19)      (.19)      (.19)
GROSS OPERATING PROFIT                                  .53        .61        .70        .81       .92         .92        .92        .92        .92        .92
Less
Capital Expenses
Depreciation                                       .24        .24        .24        .24        .24        .24        .24        .24        .24        .24
Amortization                                       .09        .09        .09        .09        .10         -          -          -           -
Interest                                           .17        .15        .14        .13        .12        .11        .09        .08        .07        .05
Subtotal                                         .50        .48        .47        .46        .46        .35        .33        .32        .31        .29
PROFIT OR LOSS BEFORE TAX                               .03        .13        .23       .35        .46         .57        .59        .60        .61        .62
Income Tax                                           .01        .05        .09        .14        .18        .23         .24        .24        .24        .25
NET PROFIT                                              .02        .08       .14         .21        .28        .34        .35        .36        .37        .37 1
Cumulative Net Profit                                   .02        .10        .24       .45         .73      1.07       1.42        1.78       2.15       2.52      H
Return on Net Fixed Assets                            4.1        5.3        6.8        8.8       11.0       13.2       13.9        15.1       16.4       17.2
Return on Initial Equity                               1.0       4.0        7.0        10.5      14.0       17.0       17.5        18.0       18.5       18.5



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Pro-forma Balance Sheet
For 250-Room Apartment Hotel
Fiscal Year                                78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90
Operating Year                                 -        -        1        2         3        4         5         6         7        8         9         10
Assets:
Net Working Capital                          -        -        .45      .55       .80     1.11      1.49      1.82     2.15      2.47      2.79      3.10
Fixed Assets
Land                                     .45       .45       .45      .45       .45       .45      .45       .45       .45       .45      .45       .45
In working Process                      1.45      4.04        -        -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -
In Operation                              -         -      4.39      4.39      4.39     4.39      4.39      4.39     4.39      4.39      4.39      4.39
Less Depreciation                          -        -       (.24)    (.48)    (.72)    (.96)   (1.20)   (1.44)   (1.68)   (1.92)   (2.16)   (2.40)
Net fixed assets                      1.90      4.49     4.60      4.36      4.12     3.88      3.64      3.40      3.16     2.92      2.68      2.44
Other Assets                                .05      .19       .37       .28      .19       .10       -         -        _          -        -        _
Total Net Assets                        1.95      4.68     5.42      5.19      5.11     5.09      5.13      5.22      5.31     5.39      5.47      5.54
Liabilities:
Less Short-term Loans                        -        -        .10        -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -
Long-term Loans                      1.12      2.86      3.30     3.09      2.87     2.64      2.40      2.15     1.89      1.61      1.32      1.02
Total Liabilities                 1.12      2.86     3.40      3.09      2.87     2.64      2.40      2.15     1.89      1.61      1.32      1.02
Equity:                                       8       1.82      2.02     2.10      2.24      2.45     2.73      3.07      3.42     3.78      4.15      4.52
Paid-in share capital                       .83     1.82      2.00     2.00      2.00      2.00     2.00      2.00      2.00      2.00     2.00      2.00
Retained earnings                            -        -                  .10      .24       .45       .73     1.07      1.42      1.78      2.15     2.52
Debt/Equity Ratio:                         57:43    61:39    62:38    60:40    56:44    52:48    47:53    41:59    36:64    30:70    24:76    18:82
H
U, Z
Hnl



MEXICO: BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
Pro-forma Cash Flow Statement
For 250-Room Apartment Hotel
Fiscal Year                                      78/79    79(80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90
Operating Year                                      -         -        1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9        10
Source of Funds
Net Operating Income                              -         -        .02       .08      .14       .21       .28       .34       .35       .36       .37       .37
Non-Cash Charges                                  -         -        .33       .33       .33       .33       .34       .24       .24       .24       .24      .24
Internal Cash-Generation                        -         -        .35      .41       .47       .54       .62       .58       .59       .60       .61       .61
Initial Equity Capital                           .83       .99       .18        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -
Long-term Loans                                 1.12      1.74       .44             -         -         -         -         -              -         -         -
Short-term Loans                                  -         -        .10        -         -         -        -
Subtotal                                     1.95      2.73        .72        -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Total Funds                                1.95      2.73      1 n7        41       -47        wl       ,^o       .58       .59       .60       .61       .61
Application of Funds
Land                                             .45             -         -         -         -         -              -         -         -         -         -
Project Coat                                    1.45      2.59       .54        -         -         -       _           -         -       _           -       _
Subtotal                                      1.90     2.59        .54        -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Interest during construction                     .05       .14       .08        -                             -         -         -     
Loan Amortization                                 -         -         -        .31       .22       .23      .24       .25       .26        .28       .29       .30
Total Application                             1.95       2.73      .62       .31       .22       .23      .24       .25       .26        .28       .29      .30
Amnal Surplus                                       -         -        .45       .10       .25       .31       .38       .33       .33       .32       .32       .31
Cumulative Surplus                                  -         -                                                                           -7Z3S  .55+ TRp  TT  14  T7  *7T5  Z.7  -ZT-77 TITT
Cash Generation                                     -         -        .52       .56       .61       .67       .74       .69       .68       .68       .68       .66
Debt Service                                        -         -         -        .48       .37       .37       .37       .37       .37       .37       .37       .37
Debt Service Ratio                                  -         -         -       1.2       1.6       1.8       2.0       1.9       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8



ANNEX )
Page 1
)MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
FINANCIAL FORECASTS ON ESTATE OPERATIONS
1.       This annex deals with overall investments in the two project
areas, except investments in the airports and the first hotels, which are
dealt with in Annex III and VIII. These investments directly affect the
land being developed for sale to hotel, apartel, commercial and other
investors. FONATUR would administer the two tourism zones by maintaining
the public areas and facilities within these areas (e.g., landscaping,
buildings, environmental sanitation and stormwater drainage) and by selling
the hotel and other commercial sites to private investors. FONATUR would
also be responsible for development of the urban areas by providing required
infrastructure and common facilities for redensifying existing commercial
and residential sites in the towns and for selling lots to the local
population.
2.       Two new project units would be set up by FONATUR to be staffed
with qualified and experienced staff that would deal with property manage-
ment, planning, engineering, accounting and finance (Annex VI). The pro-
ject units would have a small technical services unit, although FONATUR
would rely on maintenance services being provided by other government and
public agencies. The management services to be provided by FONATUR would
primarily involve land sales and building management. The administrative
services would primarily involve accounting, procurement and distribution.
3.       The municipal government would provide maintenance services for
roads, bridges, solid waste disposal, and stormwater drainage. A local
junta would manage and maintain water supply and sewerage systems. Elec-
trical installations would be maintained by CFE, while TELMEX would main-
tain the telecommunications installations. The technical services unit
within the Project Unit of FONATUR would be responsible for assuring the
overall quality of maintenance and repair services, and would plan their
activities in close coordination with the government and public agencies
involved in the project.
4.       The total capital requirements for the development of the tourism
estates are estimated to be US$4.09 million in 1976 prices, including fi-
nancial charges during construction.  These costs exclude investments in
the airports, the pilot hotels, the telecommunications system, and part
of the inyestments in electric power, water supply and sewerage components
(see Annexes III aad VII;).  The following table is a summary of costs and
capital structure for the developments at Loreto and San Jose del Cabo
(FONATUR's estate operations).



ANNEX IX
Page 2
Requirements                                               (US$ million)
Loreto            San Jose
Resort   Town   Total    del Cabo    Total          %
Land                      3.52    .85    4.37          2.01      6.38    ( 19)
Project Cost             6,56   6.50   13.06           8.16    21.22    ( 64)
Indirect Cost            2.27   1.16    3.43           2.30      5.73    ( 17)
Subtotal            12.35   8.51   20.86         12.47    33.33    (100)
Interest during
Construction                             .50          .26       .76
Total                           21.36        12.73    34.09
Source of Funds
IBRD Loans                                9.18         5.24    14.42    ( 42)
Government Equity                       11.68          7.23    18.91      ( 55)
Operating Income                           .50          .26       .76    ( 3)
Total                           21.36        12.73    34.09    (100)
5.       For purposes of financial analysis, it is assumed that the Bank
loan would be on-lent to FONATUR at an interest rate of 9% per annum for
18 years, including a 3-year grace period. This interest rate has been
adjusted to 2% interest indexed for inflation. Repayments of the IBRD
loan are assumed to start in 1981. The financial charges on the IBRD loans
during the grace period are assumed to be covered by operating income.
6.       Forecasts of income and expense, cash flow and financial position
for the first ten-year period of FONATUR's estate operations at Loreto aind
San Jose del Cabo are presented in Tables 1-6 of this annex. The basic
assumptions used in these projections are summarized below.
7.       FONATUR would generate revenues from the sale of hotel, commercial
and residential sites in the tourism areas amounting to 66 ha at Loreto and
54 ha at San Jose del Cabo. In addition, FONATUR would generate revenues
from the redensification and sale of commercial and residential sites in
the towns of Loreto and San Jose del Cabo amounting to 77 has. It is
expected that FONATUR would sell all the sites developed under the project
to private investors over a ten-year period starting from 1978. The land
sale prices for sites vary by type of development and the year the sales
contract is signed. It is estimated that the average sale price would be
in the range of US$20-28 per m2 for hotel sites, US$25-35 per m2 for villas
and condominium sites and US$30 per m2 for other commercial sites. The
average sales price for urban residential lots has been projected at US$10-
12 per m2, and takes into account what the population can afford.
8.       It is assumed that FONATUR would sell all land on a sale contract
basis, which would require a down payment of 15% of the sales price at the
time of signing the sales agreement. The balance of the sales price would



ANNEX IX
Page 3
bear an interest rate of 13% per annum with principal and interest pay-
able in equal installments over a 5-year period. These assumptions would
mean that FONATUR would earn income from intorest on the deferred cash
receipts over a 5-year period. The interest rate on the deferred cash
receipts has been adjusted to 6% interest indexed for inflation.
9.       The operating costs include expenditues for community development,
operating expenses for the project unit activities in the field, promotional
and administrative activities for the tourism estate, and maintenance of
the infrastructure within the resort complex. These costs, included in the
project cost estimates as indirect costs (para. 4 above), have not been
capitalized but treated as operating costs to be deducted from operating
revenues from the initial year of project implementation. The operating
costs, excluding maintenance costs are based on assumed work programs
for the respective activities. The annual maintenance costs are estimated
at an average of 1% of the depreciable total assets. On the basis of a
straight line depreciation schedule, the civil work structures were
depreciated over a 30-year period and equipment over a 10-year period.
Only interest during construction has been treated as deferred expense
which would be amortized over a 5-year period of operation.
10.      On the basis of the above assumptions, the results of financial
forecasts for FONATUR's estate operations at Loreto and San Jose del Cabo
indicate that the financial position of the project would be sound with
adequate income to cover financial costs and reserves for replacement costs
and additional investment.
11.      In the case of Loreto, however, if urban investments in the town
of Loreto were separated from investments in tourism it would not be
possible to recover the initial capital invested in the town because most
of the land in the town will be sold at low prices to local residents for
residential sites. This situation would not be true in the case of the town
of San Jose del Cabo although urban lots would be sold at similar prices,
because infrastructure investment costs are lower. When the financial
projections of the estate operation for the tourist zone and the town of
Loreto are consolidated, however, the financial position appears to be
sound, with satisfactory debt service coverage, despite a net cash flow
rate of return on equity which would be relatively low, reaching 10%
in the fifth year of operation.   In the case of the estate operation
at San Jose del Cabo, it is assumed that a large portion of the land would
be sold as sites for hotels and other commercial establishments with
prices high enough to enable the project to recover the initial capital
investment employed. The financial rate of return in San Jose del Cabo
would be 24% (net cash flow on equity) by the fifth year of operation.
12.      In addition to the financial returns to FONATUR on the estate
operations at Loreto and San Jose del Cabo, the government is expected
to receive substantial tax revenues from hotels and other commercial esta-
blishments in the project areas (Annex X).



ANNEX IX
Page 4
13.      To achieve the financial objectives of its estate operations,
it is recommended that FONATUR establish a proper financial reporting
system. The system would be based on specific financial formats and
would include budgets for long-range operational programs, quarterly
progress reports and project management accounting statements (income
statements and balance sheets). These financial reports would be pre-
pared and submitted by the Project Units to FONATUR management and the
Bank. A comparison of actual operating results versus budgeted finan-
cial targets would be made and reported to FONATUR management and the
Bank together with appropriate explanations as to cause of significant
variations and proposals for action.



MEXICO: APPRAISAL OF LORETO TOURISM PROJECT
LORETO - FONATUR'S ESTATE OPERATION
Pro-forma Income and Expense Statement
(in US Million Dollars)
1977     1978      1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987
1        2         3        4         5        6         7         8        9        10
Revenue:
Sales from Land
Hotel Zone                                   -       1.00      1.26      1.10     1.15      1.92      .78      .54       .56        -         -
Villas Zone                                  -          -        -        .50      .52       .84      .87      .90      1.60      1.70      1.75
Commercial Zone                              -          -        -        .15      .15       .15      .15       -         -         -         -
Urban Zone                                   -        1.15     1.23      1.69     2.50       .30       .15     .15       .30        --
Gross Sales                              -        2.15     2.49      3.44     4.32      3.21     1.95    1.59       2.46      1.70      1.75
Less Cost of Land                     -       (.04)    (.04)    (.05)    (.05)    (.05)    (.03)   (.02)    (.03)          (.02)    (.02)
Net Sales                         -       2.11      24-5    3.39      4.27    !31.W       1TT *3TT                    1Th.6     T7
Operating Cost:
Coomunity Development                          .18        .53      .64       .76       .76      .76       .38     .38       .38        .19      .19
Operating Expense                               -          -         -       .44       .44      .44       .22     .22       .22        .11      .11
Promotion                                       -          -        .20      .20       .20      .20       .10      .10      .10        .05      .05
Project Administration                         .21        .43       .64      .64       .64      .64       .32      .32      .32        .16      .16
Maintenance                                      -         -         -       .19       .19      .19       .19      .19      .19        .19       .19
Total Cost                                   3         .96     1.48      2.23     22.23      .23     1.21    1.21       1.21        .70      .70
Gross Operating Income:                           (.39)     1.15       .97     1.16      2.04       .93      .71      .36     1.22        .98      1.03
Other Income                                              .24       .48      .77      1.10     1.19      1.08      .92      .85        .73       .67
Gross Income                                      (.39)     1.39      1.45     1.93      3.14      2.12     1.79    1.28      2.07       1.71      1.70
Less
Depreciation                                  -         -         -        -        .59      .59       .59     .59       .59        .59      .59
Amortization                                   -        -         -        -        .10      .10       .10      .10      .10         -         -
Interest                                      -                   -        -        .19      .18       .16      .15      .13        .12      .10
Total                                      -         -         -        -        .88      .87       .85      .84      .82        .71       .69
Net Operating Income                              (.9       1j39      1J45     1.9       2.26      1.25      .94      .44      2.25      1.00      1.01
Cumulative Income                             (.39)      1.00      2.45     4.38      6.64     7.89      8.83    9.27    10.52       11.52    12.53
Cash Flow Return on Government's
Contribution to Equity                           -         -         -        -      5.2      10.5      17.5    15.0      14.2       12.0      9.0
F-



MEXICO: APPRAISAL OF LORETO TOURISM PROJECT
LORETO - FONATUR'S ESTATE OPERATION
Pro-forma Balance Sheet
(in US Million Dollars)
1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
1         2         3        4         5         6         7         8         9        10
Assets
Land                                       1.56      2.97      4.38     4.38      4.38      4.38      4.38      4.38       4.38      4.38      4.38
Less Transfer                             -       (.04)     (.OB)    (.13)    (.18)    (.23)       (.26)     (.28)     (.31)     (.33)    (.35)
Subtotal                            1.56      2.93      4.30      4.25     4.20      4.15      4.12      4.10      4.07      4.05       4.03
Other Fixed Assets
in Working-Process                      .39      3.92      8.10    11.89         -         -         -         -         -          -         -
in Operation                              -         -         -        -      13.06    13.06    13.06    13.06    13.06    13.06    13.06
Less Depreciation                         -         -        _ _               (.59)   (1.18)   (1.77)   (2.36)   (2.95)   (3.54)   (4.13)
Subtotal                             .39      3.92      8.10    11.89    12.47    11.88    11.29    10.70    10.11            9.52      8.93
Current Assets
Working Capital                         (.15)    2.07      3.75      3.50      3.32      4.59      6.66      8.43    10.12    11.54    12.61
Receivables                               -      1.55       3.03     4.77      6.55      6.70      5.70      4.48      4.14       3.70      3.60
Subtotal                            (.15)     3.62      6.78      8.27      9.87    11.29    12.36    12.91    14.26    15.24    16.21
Other Assets                                 -        .08       .25       .50       .40       .30       .20       .10       _          -         -
Total Assets                        1.80    10.55    19.43    24.91    26.94    27.62    27.97    27.81    28.44    28.81    29.17
Liabilities
Less Long-term Loans                         -      (3.27)   (6.61)   (9.18)   (8.62)   (8.05)   (7.46)   (6.86)   (6.24)    (5.61)   (4.96)
Equity                                        1.80      7.28    12.82    15.73    18.32    19.57    20.51    20.95    22.20    23.20    24.21
Government Contribution                    2.19      6.28    10.37    11.35    11.68    11.68    11.68    11.68    11.68    11.68    11.68
Retained Earnings                          (.39)    1.00       2.45      4.38      6.64      7.89      8.83      9.27    10.52    11.52    12.53
Debt/Equity Ratio                                      31:69    34:66    37:63    32:68    31:71    27:73    25:75    22:78    19:81    17:83
'-4



MEXICO: APPRAISAL OF LORETO TOURISM PROJECT
LORETO - FONATUR'S ESTATE OPERATION
Pro-forma Cash Flow Statement
(in US Million Dollars)
1977     1978      1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      1986     1987
1.       2         3        4         5         6        7         8         9       10
Source of Fund
Net Operating Income                          (.39)    1.39      1.45      1.93     2.26      1.25       .94       .44     1.25      1.00      1.01
Non-cash Charges                                          -     _                    .69       .69       .69       .69      .69       .59       .59
Subtotal                                  (.39)    1.39       1.45     1,93      2.95      1.94     1.63      1.13      1.94     1.59      1.60
Increase in Assets                              -     (1.55)   (1.48)   (1.74)   (1.78)    (.15)    1.00         1.22       .34       .44       .10
Internal Cash Generation                      (.39)    (.16)    (.03)       .19     1.17      1.79      2.63     2.35      2.28      2.03      1.70
Government Contribution                       2.19     4.09      4.09       .98       .33       -         -         -                  _         _
Long-term Loans                                 -       3.27     3.34      2.57        -        _         _         _        _
Subtotal                                  2.19      7.36      7.43     3.55       .33        -         -        -         -         -        -
Total Fund                                    1.80     7.20      7.40      3.74     1.50      1.79      2.63     2.35      2.28      2.03      1.70
Application of Fund
Land                                          1.56      1.41     1.41        -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -
Civil Work                                     .32      2.87     3.40      3.08       .95       _         _         _        _         _         _
Equipment                                      .07       .66      .78       .71       .22       _         _         _         _        _
Project Costs                              1.95     4.94      5.59      3.79     1.17        -         -         _        _         _         _
Decrease in Assets                              -       (.04)    (.04)    (.05)    (.05)       (.05)    (.03)    (.02)    (.03)    (.02)    (.02)
Subtotal                                   1.95     4.90      5.55      3.74     1.12      (.05)    (.03)    (.02)    (.03)    (.02)    (.02)
Interest during construction                    -        .08      .17       .25        -        -         -         -         -        -         -
Amortization                                    -         -                  -        .56       .57       .59      .60       .62       .63       .65
Total Applications                         1.95     4.98      5,72      3.99      1.68      .52       ,56       .58       .59      .61       .63
Annual Surplus                                    (.15)    2.22      1.68      (.25)    (.18)    1.27       2.07      1.77     1.69      1.42      1.07
Cumulative Surplus                                (.15)    2.07      3.75      3.50     3.32      4.59      6.66     8.43    10.12    11.54    12.61
Debt Service Ratio                                 -         -         -        -       1.8       2.6       3.7      3.3       3.2       2.9       2.4
H



MEXICO: APPRAISAL OF BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
SAN JOSE DEL CABO - FONATUR'S ESTATE OPERATION
Pro-forma Income and Expense Statement
(in US Million Dollars)
Fiscal Year                                        1977     1978      1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
Operating Year                                                1         2         3         4         5        6         7         8         9        10
Revenue:
Sales from Land
Hotel zone                                    -       1.00       .74       .77     1.15      1.32      1.56      1.35     1.40         -        -
Villas Zone                                   -         -         -        .25      .26       .28       .58       .60       .64     1.02      1.05
Urban Zone                                    -       3.03       .28       .44      .72       .72      1.11       .78      1.19     1.13      1.20
Gross Sales                                -      4.03      1.02      1.46      2.13      2.32     3.25      2.73      3.23      2.15      2.25
Less cost of land                                 -      (.12)    (.01)    (.02)    (.02)    (.02)    (.03)         (.02)    (.03)    (.02)       (.02)
Net sales                                 _      3.91      1.01      1.44      2.11     2.30      3.22      2.71      3.20      2.13      2.23
Operating Cost:
Community Development                            .02      .05       .06       .08       .08      .08       .04       .04       .04       .02       .02
Operating Expenses                                -        -         -        .24       .24       .24      .12       .12       .12       .06       .06
Promotion                                         -        -        .20       .20       .20      .20       .10       .10       .10       .05       .05
Project Administration                           .13      .26       .38       .38       .38      .38       .19       .19       .19       .10       .10
Mainteaance                                       -         -        -        .10       .10       .10      .10       .10       .10       .10       .10
.15      .31       .64      1.00     1.00        00       .55       .55       .55        33        33
Gross Operating Income                             (.15)    3.60       .37       .44      1.11      1.30     2.67      2.16      2.65      1.80      1.90
Other Income                                      -        .45      .49       .56       .67       .75       .84       .92     1.03       .98       .92
Gross Income                                       (.15)    4.05        .86     1.00      1.78      2.05      3.51     3.08      3.68      2.78      2.82
Less
Depreciation                                  -         -         -         -       .41       .41       .41       .41       .41       .41       .41
Amortization                                   -        -         -         -        .05      .05       .05       .05       .06        -         -
Interest                                      -         -         -         -       .10       .09       .08       .07       .07       .06       .05
Total                                      -         -         -         -       .56       .55       .54       .53       .54       .47      .46
Net Operating Income                               (.15)    4.05        .86     1.00      1.22      1.50      2.97      2.55     3.14      2.31      2.36
Cumulative Income                               (.15)    3.90      4.76      5.76      6.98     8.48    11.45    14.00        7.14    19.45    EI 2.-
Cash Flow Return on Government's
Contribution to Equity                                   30.7      11.8      8.9       13.3     23.8      26.6      32.1      39.0      39.8      39.9  
4x



MEXICO:  APPRAISAL OF BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
SAN JOSE DEL CABO - FONATUR'S ESTATE OPERATION
Pro-forma Balance Sheet
(in US Million Dollars)
1977     1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
1        2         3         4          5        6         7         8         9        10
Assets:
Land                                      .71      1.36     2.01      2.01      2.01       2.01     2.01      2.01      2.01      2.01      2.01
Less Transfer                          _        (.12)    (.13)    (.15)    (.17)        (.19)    (.22)    (.24)    (.27)    (.29)    (.31)
Subtotal                           .71      1.24      1.88      1.86     1.84       1.82      1.79      1.77      1.74     1.72      1.70
Other Fixed Assets
in Working-Process                     .32     2.44      5.30      7.42        -         -         -         -         -         -         _
in Operation                            -        -         -         -       8.16      8.16      8.16      8.16      8.16      8.16     8.16
Less Depreciation                       -         -        -         -       (.41)      (.82)   (1.23)   (1.64)   (2.05)   (2.46)   (2.87)
Subtotal                            .32     2.44      5.30      7.42     7.75       7.34      6.93      6.52      6.11     5.70      5.29
Current Assets
Working Capital                       (.02)    2.46      3.62      5.07      5.59       7.33     9.28    11.62    14.47    17.37    20.28
Receivables                             -      2.93      3.09      3.34      3.76       3.69     4.88      5.24      5.70      5.20      4.73
Subtotal                           (.02)    5.39      6.71      8.41     9.35      11.02    14.16    16.86    20.17    22.57    25.01
Other Assets                               -        .04       .13      .26       .21        .16       .11       .06        -         -        _
Total Assets                          1.01      9.11    14.02    17.95    19.15        20.34    22.99    25.21    28.02    29.99    32.00
Liabilities:
Less Long-Term Loans                       -      (1.70)   (3.40)   (5.24)   (4.94)    (4.63)   (4.31)   (3.98)   (3.65)   (3.31)   (2.96)
Equity:                                     1.01      7.41    10.62    12.71    14.21        15.71    18.68    21.23    24.37    26.68    29.04
Government Contributions                 1.16      3.51     5.86      6.95      7.23       7.23      7.23      7.23      7.23     7.23      7T
Retained Earnings                        (.15)    3.90       4.76     5.76      6.98       8.48    11.45    14.00    17.14    19.45    21.81
Debt/Equity Ratio                             -      19:81    24:76    29:71    26:74        23:77    19:81    16:84    13:87    11:89          9:91
Ic-



MEXICD: APPRAISAL OF BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
SAN JOSE DEL CABO - FONATUR'S ESTATE OPERATION
Pro-forma Cash Flow Statement
(in US Million Dollars)
1977     1978      1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984      1985      1986     1987
1        2         3         4        5         6         7         8         9        10
Source of Fund
Net Operating Income                              (.15)    4.05       .86      1.00      1.22     1.50      2.97      2.55      3.14      2.31      2.36
Non-cash charges                                    -         -        -         -        .46       .46      .46       .46       .47       .41       .41
Subtotal                                      (.15)    4.05        .86      1.00       1.6     133               - sr    -miiyr-                2.77
Increase in Assets                                  -     (2.93)    (.16)    (.25)    (.42)         .07    (1.19)    (.36)    (.46)        .50       .47
Internal Cash Generation                          (.15)    1.12       .70       .75      1.26     2.03      2.24      2.65      3.15      3.22      3.24
Government Contribution                           1.16     2.35      2.35      1.09       .28        -         -        -         -         -         -
Long-term Loans                                     -       1.70     1.70      1.84        -         -         -         -        -         -
Subtotal                                      1.16      4.05      4.05      2.93       .28       -         -         -         -         -         -
Total Fund                                        1.01     5.17      4.75      3.68      1.54      2.03     2.24      2.65      3.15      3.22      3.24
Application of Fund
Land                                               .71       .65       .65       -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -
Civil Work                                         .24      1.61     2.17      1.61       .57        -         _         _        _                   _
Equipment                                          .08       .51       .69      .51       .17                  _         _        _                   _
Project Cost                                   1.03   2.77   3.51   2.12                7       -         -        -         -         -         -_
Decrease in Assets                              -           (.12)    (.01)    (.02)    (.02)    (.02)    (.03)    (.02)    (.03)    (.02)    (.02)
Subtotal                                       1.03     2.65      3.50      2.10       .72      (.02)    (.03)     (.02)    (.03)    (.02)    (.02)
Interest during Construction                        -        .04       .09      .13        -         -         -         -         -        -         -
Amortization                                        -         -         -         -        .30      .31       .32       .33       .33       .34       .35
Total Application                                 1.03      2.69      3.59     2.23      1.02       .29       .29       .31       .30       .32       .33
Annual Surplus                                        (.02)    2.48      1.16      1.45       .52      1.74     1.95      2.34      2.85      2.90      2.91
Cumulative Surplus                                   (.02)    2.46       3.62      5.07     5.59    7.33        9.28    11.62    14.47        73       2.2
Debt Service Ratio                                     -         -         -         -       3.4       5.3      5.8       6.8       8.1       8.2       8.2
a'x



ANNEX X
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Introduction
1.       For purposes of economic evaluation, the investment program has
been defined to include the following:
(a) infrastructure for both the tourism and urban areas of
Loreto and San Jose del Cabo, including the airports
and the golf course and infrastructure that would
benefit the poorest segments of the population;
(b) superstructure facilities for the tourism and urban areas
of Loreto and San Jose del Cabo, including the first pilot
hotels financed by the project, health facilities, commer-
cial and civic centers, market places, and schools;
(c) expenditures on promotion, studies, technical assistance
and community development activities; and
(d) hotels, apartels, condominia, villas, restaurants, shops,
fishing boats and local transportation facilities which
form a part of the program of investments but are not
financed under the project.
2.       Tourism net benefits of the project would consist of expenditures
of visitors to the two areas less the costs to Mexico of undertaking this
project, compared with a situation in which the project was not undertaken.
The net benefits accruing from services provided in the urban areas,
including those provided to the poorest segments of the population, are
discussed elsewhere (para. 15). The size of the net benefits depends, of
course, upon the definition of the "without the project case". An exact
definition is difficult, given the size of the country and the dynamic
nature of the sector. Several scenarios can be envisaged. For example,
it might be concluded that in the absence of the project, the Mexicans
would proceed with the construction of exactly the same amount of tourism
capacity in some other region of Mexico. In this case, the benefit-cost
analysis would consist of evaluating this alternative, both from the market
and cost-effectiveness points of view.  Another alternative would be to
assume that all the capacity added by the project is incremental, so that



ANNEX X
Page 2
the project is responsible for a temporary increase in the rate of growth,
and a long-term increase in the amount of tourism capacity, than would
otherwise exist. A third alternative would be to assume something in
between; namely, that the project induces temporarily more rapid expansion
than would otherwise occur, and that a fraction of this incremental expan-
sion persists, so that Mexican tourism capacity is larger due to the project,
although probably not by the full amount of the project's accommodation
capacity. The present analysis adopts the third hypothesis. The justification
for assuming that the project would result in somewhat higher long-run
capacity in Mexico is because it will in fact diversify the Mexican tourism
product, and permit Mexico to penetrate market segments inaccessible to
resorts developed elsewhere.
B. Nature of Benefits
3.       The economic impact of the decision to go ahead with the project
has been evaluated in terms of estimated costs and benefits, with the
analysis focusing exclusively on visitors accommodated in Loreto and San Jose
del Cabo, although not all of the benefits generated by visitors accommodated
in the two areas are considered incremental to the project. Some of these
tourists would have visited Mexico even without the project given the already
numerous and varied selection of destinations in the country. Others, how-
ever, would belong to a market segment tapped by the project.1! Visitors
from the first segment would substitute for demand elsewhere in Mexico while
they stay in the project resorts, provided hotel space is available. Usually,
however, hotels are full during the high season.2J Therefore, only visitors
of this segment staying in the project areas in the low season are considered
non-incremental to Mexico. Sixty percent of visitors coming from abroad to
Loreto are estimated to be incremental to Mexico (40% in the case of San Jose
del Cabo). Of the remaining 40% (60%), 27.6% would come during the off-sea-
son>/ (in substitution for visits to other Mexican destinations).  The fa-
cilities from which demand is diverted will face not only lower revenues but
1/  The vicinity to the US   and particularly to southern California, one of
major tourist generating markets, and the uniqueness of Baja California
as a tourist destination, renders substance to the notion that they would
not have come to Mexico without the project.
2/ Full capacity should be understood as somewhere around 90% occupancy rate,
since imperfect information results in problems to secure reservations at
higher occupancies, a situation that turns potential visitors away. High
season corresponds to the November 15 to May 15 period. The rest is off-
season.
3/ The proportion of off-season traffic is expected to be higher for hotels
(some 35%) and lower for villas and condominia (some 10%). It should also
be recognized that since occupancy during the high season is not uniform,
some diversion might take place then. However, this is assumed to be
compensated by periods in the low season (like weekends and holidays)
when capacity is full.



ANNEX X
Page 3
also lower variable operating costs. Assuming that these diverted tour-
ists would have spent as much elsewhere, the deduction from receipts due
to diversion would come to 7.8% of total revenues in Loreto and 11.7% in
San Jose del Caho (operating costs of hotels and other tourist facilities
represent on the average some 65% of revenues, and variable costs some
45% of operating costs).I/ This portion of revenues is therefore treated
as not incremental and subtracted from the benefits stream for the eco-
nomic rate of return (ERR) calculations. In view of the conjectural
nature of some of the assumptions involved in calculating the effect of
demand diversion, the sensitivity of results to other assumptions is tested
later on.
4.       With regard to Mexican tourists, the diversion effect estimate is
even higher. Only 25% of Mexicans visiting the two project resorts
is assumed to be incremental tourism. The proportion of revenues derived
from Mexican visitors to be subtracted from benefits in both project areas
is 14.6%.
5.        Diversion of demand from other tourist resorts would reduce average
occupancy rates, profitability and ultimately investments there. It has,
therefore, been assumed that there will be lower investments in accommoda-
tion elsewhere as well (see para. 2), but that it would take some time be-
fore investors react. It is estimated that it would take investors about a
year to perceive the changed situation, and another year or so to implement
investment decisions. The diversion effect is therefore assumed to be felt
fully during two years and felt at only 50% during the third year. After
the third year demand diverted by the project from elsewhere in Mexico is
assumed to be fully offset by increased demand for existing accommodation as
compared to the "with the project" case resulting from the cancellation of
some other accommodation construction projects. With investment decisions
being taken on the basis of present and expected profitability, the situa-
tion could be described as having reverted to its "dynamic equilibrium".2/
6.       Although the diversion of demand is being taken into account in the
calculation of ERR's, the "creation" of demand by the project to other
1/ For Loreto, the calculation is as follows:
(0.40 x 0.276)      (1 - 0.65 x 0.45)    =       0.078
(diverted revenues)    (variable GOP)           (net benefits diverted as
a proportion of total
revenues)
2/  This "equilibrium" is always changing, being dependent, among other
things, on relative prices of inputs/outputs, on loan financing avail-
ability and terms, and on the tax structure, which change over time.
Nevertheless, based on present experience, it is estimated that hotels,
for example, require occupancy rates of over 65% to attract investors'
interest.



ANNEX X
Page 4
parts of Mexico and the effect of the capacity increase on prices are not
incorporated into this analysis. Just as there is diverted demand, it can
safely be said that the project would attract visitors to the project areas
who would also visit other parts of Mexico or other parts of Baja California./
The creation of demand would occur as a result of improved air access and of
the effect of the project-related promotion campaign in raising demand for
Baja specifically, and Mexico more generally.l/ The omission of these positive
effects in the ERR calculations is assumed will be compensated by the omission
from the analysis of explicit consideration of "price softening" which could
result from the more rapid expansion of accommodation capacity under the pro-
ject.3/ This assumption is later tested in the sensitivity analysis.
7.       The above analysis does not address itself to the question of whether
the present set of taxes, credit arrangements and government promotional polic-
ies are such as to maximize tourism returns to Mexico. Changes in taxation and
financing terms, for example, would in turn change the level of tourist prices
and occupancy rates and affect the level of investment in the sector. By limit-
ing the buildup of accommodation capacity, the Government could increase occu-
pancy rates and presumably prices of existing hotels, but this would mean less
tourists in the peak season as compared to the unrestricted growth case (off-
season market growth could still be accommodated to a large extent). In order
to enable the Government to tackle some of these questions, a market and
economic study seeking to gather and analyze the necessary information has
been include  in the project.
8.       The gross benefits resulting from the development of tourism facil-
ities would then be the expenditures of visitors accommodated in the Loreto and
San Jose del Cabo sites (duly corrected for demand diversion) and the receipts
from sale of villas, condominia and apartel units to foreigners plus the rental
value to resident users of their own units, Those gross benefits relating to
urban facilities would be the revenues from sale of urbanized lots to the local
1/ There are 500 international-class hotel rooms in the project areas'
surroundings. These have low occupancy rates (they averaged below 50%
in 1975 and around 50% in the early seventies) and the situation will not
probably improve much without the air accessibility the project will
provide.
2/ For example, some of those visitors from abroad belonging to market seg-
ments being tapped by the project might visit other parts of Mexico in
the course of the trip. The average length of stay in the project areas
is estimated will be four days, which is similar to the average for other
resorts in Mexico. In contrast, the total average stay of foreign visitors
in Mexico is ten days.
3/ Only reduction in prices in the case of foreign expenditures should be
accounted for since in the case of Mexicans it is roughly compensated
by an increase in their consumer surplus.



ANNEX X
Page 5
population,1/ and the rental values for the housing units built under the
sites and services component of the project. Those relating to the elec-
tricity, telephone and water and sewerage facilities provided under the
project would be the tariffs charged to incremental users of these facil-
ities in the project areas.
9.       The costs associated with these benefits would be the capital and
operating costs of infrastructure (both tourism and urban) and the costs of
hotels, apartels, restaurants and other superstructure. The revenue and
cost assumptions are described in paras. 12 to 30 below. All revenues and
costs are calculated at October 1, 1976 prices and expressed in US dollars.
Any differential inflation rates between Mexico and the U S are assumed to
be offset by movements in the floating Mexican peso.
10.      Separate ERR have been calculated for Loreto and San Jose del Cabo,
which are some 500 km apart. For each project area only one ERR has been
calculated. Although it is possible arithmetically to run different calcu-
lations for the tourist and urban investments, the allocation of costs of
components serving both tourism and the local population would be arbitrary.
Despite the fact that some of the infrastructure investments might have been
undertaken even in the absence of the project, albeit later, (e.g., the
electricity transmission line from Villa Constitucion to Loreto which is part
of CFE's interconnection plan, and the airport of San Jose del Cabo which is
part of SAHOP's airport plan), it has been assumed that they would not, tnd
therefore the full cost of these items (representing over 10% of infrastructure
investment costs in Loreto and 20% in San Jose del Cabo respectively) has
been incorporated in the ERR calculations.  This imparts a conservative bias
to the ERR calculations because the benefits that would have been generated
by these investments "without" the project (external benefits as regards the
project) have not been taken into account.
C. Revenue Assumptions
11.      The expected average and breakdown of daily expenditures of Mexicans
and foreign visitors are presented in Annex VII and range from US$25.8 per
day for a Mexican visitor to Loreto to US$42.7 for a foreign visitor to San
Jose del Cabo.
12.      Revenue estimates for hotels and apartels are presented in Annex VIII.
Revenues for villas and condominia have been calculated by assuming average
daily rents of US$20 per room (US$40 per day for a two-bedroom apartment used
on average by 5 people).  Average occupancy is assumed to be 50%,or 42% if
time spent by the owner is excluded. These revenues exclude sales taxes (4%)
and commissions and are in line with market projections and marketing
strategies to be adopted for the project.
1/  Since little is known about the sort of houses that buyers of these
lots would build and about the incremental value of the land since
urbanized lots are not normally rented, this rather than the theoretically-
superior rental values approach has been preferred. The bias that is
introduced does not affect the ERR calculations much, however.



ANNEX X
Page 6
13.      In addition to the revenues generated when rented tp yisitors,
yll4s, condominia, and apartel units generate gross benefits to the Mexican
ecQnonly which will be different, depending on who owns these facilities.
In the case of Mexicans, representing 30% of owners in Loreto and 40% in San
Jose del Cabo, the benefits have been estimated by the use made of the units
purchased (around one month a year) at a price equal to their room tariffs
(or rental value).  The.actual purchase.price of these units and the net
financial returns they get from their commercial operation have been treated
here as financial transfers and not entered into the economic evaluation.
In the case of foreigners, on the other hand, the actual purchase price of
the units has been considered as gross benefits (revenues) to the project,l/
the net financial returns they get have been treated as cost and no imputed
rental value has been accounted for. It is assumed that the units would be
sold a year after the opening, with about half the buyers paying in cash
(the fact that they in turn might get loans from US banks is irrelevant) and
the remainder paying in five years with a 20% down payment and a real inter-
est rate of 5%. The projections for selling prices are: US$30,000 for a
typical 2-bedroom condominium apartment, US$45,000 for a typical 3-bedroom
villa, and US$36,000 for a 2-bedroom apartel unit, all net of commissions
and promotional costs. Although these prices are significantly lower than
going prices (after devaluation) of actual sales in other parts of Mexico,
such as Cancun and Acapulco, they are assumed to be so because of the large
volume of sales involved.
14.      Revenues generated by the water and sewerage services are shown in
Annex IV. No consumer surplus has been assumed. Revenues from electricity
have been estimated on the basis of an average selling price of US$0.35 per
KWH and consumption on the basis of experience typical of other resorts in
Mexico. Since the costs of the telephone services were too difficult to
estimate meaningfully, no revenues (nor operating costs) have been included
in the ERR calculation.2/ The telephone company generates high returns on
its investments, however, and the fact that investment costs of the tele-
phone component of the project are included in the calculations imparts a
conservative bias to the ERR's.
15.      The gross benefits of the urban area are derived from sale prices
of urbanized lots and are shown in Annex IX. In the case of the 500 houses
built in each area under the sites and services program, gross benefits are
assumed would be US$30 per month per house which reflects the rental value
of similar housing units in Baja California.
16.      No gross benefits have been included on account of the airport,
since experience in Mexico shows that their revenues barely cover operating
costs (Annex III). All indirect taxes paid by foreigners and by Mexicans who
1/ This assumes that these investments are tied to the project (see footnote
to para. 36).
2/ The implicit assuimption being that revenues just cover operating costs.
Being part of an integrated network, the telephone company would not pro-
vide estimates of the marginal operating costs nor of the marginal invest-
ments'in their central facilities that the project would make necessary.
The studies involved would be too costly compared to the cost of the
telephone component of the project.



ANNEX X
Page 7
have travelled abroad without the project have been included in the gross
benefits stream.l/  No direct taxes have been included.
D. Investment Cost Assumptions
17.      Ninety-eight percent of the project investment costs have been
taken into account in the cost stream for ERR calculations. The few
components not included (like clinics, civic centers, and some community
development expenditures during construction) have associated benefits
but they are too difficult to estimate meaningfully. Since the area is a
duty free zone, no import taxes have been subtracted from the costs.
Although some locally procured items are subject to indirect taxes, these
have not been taken into account and therefore the investment costs stream
is slightly overestimated.
18.      In addition to the components included in the project, other faci-
lities such as hotels, apartels, villas, condominia, shops, transport equip-
ment, sporting and entertainment centers, restaurants, and nightclubs would
be built or acquired by the private sector. The cost of materials for
house construction in connection with the sites and services components of the
project (estimated at US$2,000 per house) is also included.Z/ The invest-
ment costs of the hotels including physical contingencies, professional
services and pre-opening expenses, have been estimated at an average of
US$24,000 per room; that of apartels at US$18,000 and that of villas and
condominia at US$11,000. All these estimates exclude the cost of land,
price contingencies and interest during construction. The investment cost
in other tourism enterprises, such as shops and restaurants, is estimated to
total US$7.35 million in Loreto and US$10.25 million in San Jose del Cabo
based on the cost of such facilities in other Mexican resorts.
19.      The opportunity cost of land used for the project (about 260
hectares in Loreto and 250 in San Jose del Cabo) has been estimated at
US$560,000 in Loreto and at US$450,000 in San Jose del Cabo.3/ These costs
have been based on appraisals of the Ministerio del Patrimonio which duly
1/  Under the assumption that 75 percent of expenditures of Mexicans would
have been incurred in other activities in Mexico without the project,
the foregone indirect taxes with the project (assumed equal to the ones
paid with the project) are deducted from the revenue stream.
2/  These houses would be built under a guided self-help program.  The
technical assistance cost is included in FONATUR's operating costs and
the economic cost of the owner's work is assumed to be zero on grounds
that the program is designed for those with no permanent jobs.
3/ FONATUR has purchased more land than needed for the implementation of
the project.



ANNEX X
Page 8
take into account other alternatives to use the land.-!
20.      On the basis of the above assumptions, the investment costs,
excluding replacement costs, relevant to the project evaluation are shown
below:
Loreto             San Jose del Cabo
(in US$ mil.)   (in%)       (in US$ mil.) (in %)
Superstructure                      83.95        74.7           84.75      84.3
Hotel, apartels, villas
and condominia                75.45        67.1           73.45      73.1
Other commercial facilities    7.35           6.6           10.25      10.2
Housing                          1.15         1.0            1.05       1.0
Infrastructure                      28.50        25.3           15.79      15.7
Land                             0.56         0.5            0.45       0.4
Basic infrastructure            24.94        22.1           13.06      13.0
Project administration,
promotion and pre-
opening expenses               3.00         2.7            2.28       2.3
Total                     112.45       100.0          100.54    100.0
21.      The infrastructure cost (including investments in the support towns
to provide urbanized lots to the local population) represents about one-
fourth of the total project cost in Loreto and less than one-fifth in San Jose
del Cabo. This reflects the fact that some infrastructure already exists in
these areas, especially in San Jose del Cabo.
22.      Replacement costs will be incurred every five years, at the rate of
10% of investment costs for hotels and apartels, 7.5% for villas and condominia,
25% for other commercial facilities, and 5% for the infrastructure.
E. Operating Cost Assumptions
23.      The projected operating costs for hotels and apartels have been
derived from the financial forecasts described in Annex VIII. The operating
costs of villas and condominia--representing on average some 55% of revenues--
have been estimated on the basis of experience in other Mexican resorts. The
full cost of utility services (which represent revenues of the agencies selling
such services) is included. The operating costs of commercial activities other
than those involving accommodation have been estimated on the basis of a FONATUR
survey undertaken in Cancun and on experience elsewhere in Mexico. They repre-
sent on average some 65% of revenues. The operating costs of FONATUR's estate
1/ These costs are assumed to be roughly equivalent to the discounted stream
of the land's annual rental value. (No discount rate nor horizon is given
in the Ministerio del Patrimonio's calculations.) Any bias in the ERR's
calculations that might be imparted by this assumption would be small, however.



ANNEX X
Page 9
operations and the water supply and sewerage are based on projections de-
scribed in Annexes IV and VIII. In the case of electricity supply, they
have been estimated at 80% of revenues in Loreto and 70% in San Jose del
Cabo, which are based on inforiaation provided by CF9 (Annex II).
24.      Foreign buyers of apartels, villas, and condominium units are
assumed to receive a 4% real annual return on their original investment,
and the derived profits have been entered as a cost in the ERR calculations.
This figure is consistent with the-financial results these facilities are
expected to achieve and with other real estate ventures in Mexico that offer
fixed returns to buyers.
25.      Although unemployment and under-employment of unskilled labor are
widespread in Mexico, sparsely populated Baja California has low unemploy-
ment because there are few opportunities to subsist without modern sector
employment. Experience in Mexico shows, however, that migration into areas
where employment is created seems to be triggered almost immediately.-/
Wages for unskilled labor (representing around 50% of total wages) have
therefore been shadowpriced at 75% of market wages. The case where shadow
wages are assumed to be equal to market wages has been tested in the sensi-
tivity analysis.
F. Internal Economic Rates of Return
26.      The project's cost and benefit streams in Loreto and San Jose del
Cabo resulting from the above assumptions and projections are presented below:
Economic Cost and Revenue Streams
(in US$ million)
Loreto                             San Jose del Cabo
Inv.   Oper.                 Net        Inv.   Oper.                 Net
Year      Costs   Costs   Revenues   Benefits   Costs   Costs  Revenues   Benefits
1          5.8      -         -        ( 5.8)       3.2      -        -        ( 3.2)
2         11.4      0.2      0.2       (11.4)       7.7      -       0.3       ( 7.7)
3         23.5      0.2      0.6       (23.2)      16.6      0.2     0.6       (16.2)
4         11.3      5.1       6.5      ( 9.9)       8.0      4.5     5.6       ( 6.9)
5         10.6    10.8      15.8       ( 5.6)       8.4      8.0    11.4       ( 5.0)
6         11.5    16.0       24.6      ( 2.9)      10.2    11.8    18.5        ( 3.4)
7         15.0    22.0      36.9       ( 0.1)      12.4    17.2    26.3        ( 3.3)
8          8.6    29.6      49.2        11.3       12.2    22.1    36.6          2.3
9          7.5    35.7      58.4        15.3       10.1    28.3    46.7          8.3
10         13.3    40.0       67.6       14.3       14.1    33.5    55.9          8.3
11          3.3    45.0       74.5       26.2        2.4    38.7    64.9         23.8
12          1.5    47.5       79.2       30.2        2.5    40.4    70.0         27.2
13          2.1    48.0       81.5       31.4        2.1    41.8    73.6         29.8
14          2.1    48.3       79.0       28.6        2.1    43.0    75.1         30.0
15          2.1    48.4       79.3       28.8        2.1    43.1    75.7         30.5
16 - 30     2.1    48.4       79.4       28.9        2.1    43.1    75.8         30.6
Present Values
(10% Dis-
count rate)88.3   255.7    418.9         74.9       73.8   217.4   369.9         78.8
1/  The development of Cancun is a relevant example of Mexico's population
mobility, even when it involves Iaoving to remote areas.



ANNEX X
Page 10
27.      Based on these streams and an estimated economic life of 30 years,
the internal economic rate of return is 19% in Loreto and 21% in San Jose
del Cabo. Since facilities are built over a period of 12 years, the econo-
mic life of the facilities implicit in these calculations varies from 27
years for the first hotels (hotels may have an even longer life if properly
maintained) and 18 years for some villas and condominia. Facilities or
equipment with shorter economic lives are replaced several times (para. 22).
No residual value is taken into account.
G.   Sensitivity Analysis
28.      The sensitivity of the project's economic rate of return to changes
in costs and revenues is presented below:
Internal Economic Rate of Return: Sensitivity Analysis
Loreto    San Jose del Cabo
Best Estimate                                   18.7              20.6
Changes
Investment Cost  + 10%                       17.3             19.0
+ 20%                      15.9             17.6
Operating Cost   - 10%                       21.3             23.1
+ 10%                      16.1             17.9
+ 20%                      13.1             15.1
No Shadow Wages                              17.2              18.9
Gross Operating Profit  + 10%                21.4             23.3
- 10%              16.3              17.9
- 20%              13.1             15.1
Prices a/                + 10%               21.9             25.1
- 10%              14.2             16.0
One Year's Delay b/in
Project Implementation                     16.1             17.0
Only 75% of Superstructure Developed c/   16.2                17.8
a/ Change of all prices used in estimating revenues in tourist facilities.
b/ Some investments in the initial years are stretched out, so that opera-
tions commence in Year 5.
c/ Development stops when it reaches 75% of best estimate total capacity.
29.      Assuming, in contrast to the base case, that the price "dilution"
effect is not compensated by the project's demand "creation" effect, i.e.,
that the project's promotion, accessibility and added diversity in the
offer will not affect demand for Mexican destinations as a whole, including
the project area (para. 7), and that the price elasticity of demand for
Mexico is -5 (or -3), the internal economic rate of return would be 16.6%



ANNEX X
Page 11
(13.1%) in Loreto and 17.5% (14.0%) in San Jose del Cabo.-
30.      If the proportion of foreign visitors that would not have come
to Mexico "without" the project were only 40% instead of 60% in the case
of Loreto and 20% instead of 40% in the case of San Jose del Cabo (implying
a stronger substitution of demand elsewhere in the country (para. 6), then
the internal economic rate of return would be 17.1% in Loreto and 18.4%
in San Jose del Cabo.
H. Project's Main Risks
31.      While the ERR of the project is not very sensitive to changes in
investment cost, it is quite sensitive to changes in operating costs.
However, the risk of operating costs increasing by as much as 20% with no
parallel increases in revenues is considered small, since prices of
tourist goods and services have always followed the inflation trend quite
closely, and in the future the assumed corrections of the exchange rate will
prevent Mexico's tourism from becoming uncompetitive. Moreover, in relation
to operating efficiency, hotel management skills in the country are already
developed and it is not difficult to "absorb" what amounts to a modest
expansion of capacity by Mexico's standards.
32.      Possible lack of investors' interest to build hotels because of
unattractive profit prospects is perhaps the greatest risk facing the project.
Nevertheless, even with only 75% of superstructure development (and a similar
fall in visitors' arrivals in the later years) the project is still econom-
ically feasible. In fact, the sensitivity of the rates of return to a short-
fall in such development is small. This is due to the rather low proportion
of the infrastructure investments (or the fixed costs), particularly in
San Jose del Cabo. In addition, FONATUR's active role in lending and even
In direct investment in hotels make the hotel construction projections quite
firm, in particular during the early years of hotel development as experience
in Cancun and Ixtapa has shown, making a shortfall in the earlier years less
likely.
33.      Even if hotel investors are forthcoming, however, there is always
the risk of a softening of the market for Mexico as a whole (as well as for
the resorts in Baja California) and of hotels achieving lower occupancy rates.
It is, however, unlikely that a significant drop in occupancy rates will be
permanent since relative softness in the market for a long period would soon
slow down expansion in overall accommodation capacity in Mexico (the project
is expected to represent only some 9% of total international-class accommoda-
tion development in Mexico during the 80s assuming a 6% per year average
growth rate), thus helping to restore profitable occupancy levels and prices
in these and other resorts. Nevertheless, should occupancy rates of all
accommodation facilities fall by' 20% Cfrom 58% on average to 46%) from the
1/ Since lower prices will have a similar effect as lower occupancy rates
an profitability and investments in new accommodation elsewhere, the
same arguments and assumptions regarding the period and extent of such
effect described in para. 5 are applied here.



ANNEX X
Page 12
time the capacity is fully developed (around the eighth year of oper-
ation of the resorts) onwards, the internal economic rates of return
on investments in Loreto would be 13%   and in San Jose del Cabo, 14.3%.
34.      As can be observed from the Sensitivity Analysis table, a fall in
prices (costs remaining unchanged) would cause a severe drop in the rates
of return. A fall in prices of, say, 10% over the life of the project is
considered unlikely, however, since the base case prices and resulting
expenditures per day are lower than those estimated in other Mexican resorts
in mid-1976 (Annex VI), and quite low for the standards of competing
destinations abroad.
I. Balance of Payments Effect
35.      Based on the projected expenditures of foreign tourists and on
estimates of foreign exchange component (dirj/t and indirect) of 50% of
investment costs and 20% of operating costs,- the projected foreign
exchange component of revenues and costs and net foreign exchange earnings
generated by the project are shown in the table on page 13.
36.      Mexico's net foreign expenditures would total some US$35 million
in foreign exchange in the two resorts by year 4. Thereafter, accumulated
net foreign exchange earnings would grow, becoming positive by year 7 and
reaching some US$180 million by year 10. Over the life of the project, net
foreign exchange earhings generated in Loreto would be US$1,100 million,
and US$850 million in San Jose del Cabo.2/ The project will therefore make
a significant contribution to Mexico's balance of payments.
J. Employment Effect
37.      The direct employment effect of the project by the time it reaches
full development is estimated at some 5,900 additional jobs in Loreto and
6,000 in San Jose del Cabo. (See table on page 16.) Around 55% of these
would be in accommodation facilities (mostly in hotels and apartels), around
34% in commercial facilities outside hotels such as shops, restaurants, and
1/ This percentage is much higher than normal in Mexico because Baja
California is a duty free area with easy access to the United States.
It also includes dividends to foreign villa and condominia owners.
2/ It is assumed that the only investments financed by foreigners and
tied to the project correspond to purchase of villas and condominia
and that whatever they invest in hotels (and tied to the project) is
compensated by a proportion of the first being untied investments.
The Bank loan is considered to be untied.



Net Foreign Exchange Earnings
(in US$ million)
Loreto                                                 San Jose del Cabo
Foreign       Net                                        Foreign        Net
Inv.    Oper.   Exchange   F. Exch.                      Inv.    Oper.   Exchange   F. Exch.
Year      Costs    Costs   Revenues   Earnings    Accum.           Costs    Costs   Revenues   Earnings    Accum.
1          2.9       -           -       ( 2.9)      (  2.9)        1.6       -         -           (1.6)      (  1.6)
2         5.7       -           -        ( 5.7)      (  8.6)        3.6       -         -           (3.6)      (  5.3)
3        11.8       -            -       (11.8)      ( 20.4)        8.3       -         -           ( 8.3)     ( 13.6)
4          5.7     1.0          5.2      ( 1.5)      ( 21.8)        4.0      3.9        -           ( 1.0)     ( 14.6)
5          5.3     2.2        12.4         4.9       ( 16.9)        4.2      1.6        7.6           1.8      ( 12.7)
6          5.8     3.2        20.7       11.7        (  5.2)        5.1      2.4       13.1           5.6      (  7.1)
7          7.3     4.4        29.8       18.1          12.9         6.2      3.3       18.9           9.3         2.3
8          4.3     6.0        44.7       34.4          47.3         6.1      4.5       25.3          14.8        17.0
9          3.8      7.3       46.3        35.3         82.6         5.1      5.7       32.7          21.9        38.9
10          6.7      8.1        53.5       38.7        121.3         7.0      6.8       38.8          25.0        63.9
11          1.7      9.2        58.3       47.5        168.8         1.2      7.9       45.0          36.0        99.8
12          0.8      9.7        61.3       50.9        219.7         1.2      8.2       47.5          38.1       137.9
13          1.1      9.8        62.4       51.6        271.3         0.6      8.5       49.4          40.3       178.3
14          1.1      9.8        59.4       48.5        319.8         1.1      8.7       49.2          39.4       217.6
15-30       1.1      9.9        59.6       48.7      1,098.4         1.1      8.8       49.7          39.8       855.0



ANNEX X
Page 14
sports clubs, the rest in construction" and the infrastructure services
(mostly utilities and airports). Over the life of the project, some 158,000
man-years would be generated in each Loreto and San Jose del Cabo (50%
of which in accommodation facilities, 30% in commercial facilities outside
hotels, 15% in construction, and the rest in infrastructure services).2/
38.      Indirect employment can be estimated roughly at 10-15,000.3/
This would be concentrated in handicrafts, agriculture, food processing,
production of furniture and hotel equipment, transportation, etc. Only
some 1,000 of these would be generated in each project area. Most of the
rest would probably be generated out-of-state.
39.      Unskilled labor would represent more than 60% of the labor force
(although less than 50% of the wage bill). Employment opportunities for
women would be created both directly and indirectly by the project. It is
estimated from experience elsewhere in Mexico's hotel industry, that some
30-40% of direct employment created could be filled by women.
K. Effect on Government Finances
40.      The Government would benefit both directly and indirectly from its
investments in the project area. In addition to the Government revenue-
earning agencies involved in the project, such as FONATUR and utility com-
panies, the Government would capture revenues from the 4% sales taxes and
direct taxes paid by commercial enterprises (direct taxes paid by workers
on income generated by the project are not included). On the other hand,
the Government would invest in land, in tourist and urban infrastructure,
in one hotel and in several other superstructure facilities in each area.
It would incur increased expenses related to project administration and pro-
motion (no incremental tax collection costs are considered).
41.      The estimated incremental costs and revenues that would accrue to
the Government with the project in the two areas (excluding the effect of
the Bank loan, which is considered untied to the project, and FONATUR's
hotel lending operations) are presented on page 16.
1/ Estimates of employment in construction were derived from investment
costs based on the assumption that labor cost per man-year is US$2,200.
2/ Defining one permanent job as 15 man-years and discounting investments
at 10%, the project generates one "job" for every US$7,673 invested.
If both investment costs and man-years are discounted at 10%, the
investment cost per man-year comes to some US$1,800, and compares fa-
vorably with the urban poverty lending benchmark for Mexico on employ-
ment generation grounds.
3/ According to data from Mexico's 1960 input-output table, the relation-
ship between direct and indirect employment in tourism is around 1:1.3,
and almost 70% of indirect employment is generated in agriculture.



ANNEX X
Page 15
DIRECT EMPLOYMENT PROJECTIONS
Villas &         Infra-       Other
Year       Construction   Hotels   Apartments   Condominia   structure   facilities   Total
Loreto
1              960                                                                              960
2             1800                                                   220                       2020
3             3800                                                   280                      4080
4             1811           300         120                         350            300        2880
5             1690           420         440            36           360            700       3650
6             1846          540          680             75          370            900       4410
7             2392          720          880           124           380           1150       5650
8             1378           840        1280           184           390           1400       5470
9             1200          960         1440           241           400           1600       5840
10             2120          1080        1520           309           400           1700        7130
11              212         1200         1600           388           400           1800       5600
12              212         1200         1600           479           400           1900        5790
13              212          1200        1600           479           400           2000        5890
14-30           212          1200        1600           479           400           2000        5890
San Jose del Cabo
1              540                                                                             540
2             1200                                                   200                      1200
3             2600                                                   280                      2880
4             1270          240          160                         350            300       2320
5             1330          360          320            20           360            700       3090
6             1620          480          480            46           370            800       3796
7             1990          660          680            77           380           1000       4787
8             1950          840          920           107           390           1200       5407
9             1614         1080         1160           138           400           1400       5792
10             2248         1200         1400           168           400           1700        7116
11              376         1320         1640           200           400           2000       5936
12              392         1320         1640           240           400           2100       5852
13              210          ;320        1640           275           400           2100       5945
14-30           210         1320         1640           313           400           2100       5943



ANNEX X
Page 16
Government Finances
(in US$ Million)
Investment       Operating                                        Accum.
Year         Costs            Costs          Revenues       Cash Flow      Cash Flow
1            9.4              --               --           (9.4)           (9.4)
2           18.2               .4              5.0          (13.6)          (22.9)
3           27.9                .6             3.4          (25.1)         (48.0)
4            --               1.0              6.2            5.2           (42.9)
5            --               1.4             10.1            8.7           (34.2)
6             .4              1.6             10.4            8.5           (25.8)
7             .4              2.4            13.0            10.2          (15.6)
8             .4              3.0             15.3           11.9           ( 3.7)
9             .4              3.4             21.2           17.4           13.7
10             .4              3.8             21.5           17.2           30.9
11             .4              4.1             24.2           19.7           50.6
12             .4              4.2             21.9           17.3           67.9
13             .4              4.3             22.8           18.1           86.0
14             .4              4.3             23.6           18.9          104.9
15             .4              4.3             24.0           19.3          124.2
16             .4              4.3             24.4           19.7          144.0
17-30          .4              4.3             25.6           19.8          163.8
to 421.9
42.      The internal rate of return on the Government's cash flow is over
20%.  Most of the revenues would be collected in the form of taxes.
L. Distribution of Project Benefits
43.      The following table shows the distribution of project financial
benefits: 1/
Present Value (at 10% discount rate) of Project Net Financial
Benefits, by Recipients
Loreto         San Jose del Cabo
(in US$ m.)  ( %)  (in US$ m.)  ( %)
(a) Hotels, apartels, villas
and condominia                          5.5        7.2       5.8        7.4
(b) Shops, restaurants, street ven-
clors, guides, local transp., etc.   26.5         34.9      18.5       23.5
(c) Unskilled workers  2/                  22.9       30.2      19.3       24.5
(d) Government  3/                         21.0       27.7      35.1       44.6
Total                              75.9      100.0      78.7      100.0
1/  Since the financial projections have been  corrected here by reducing
gross benefits to account for demand diversion, this table underesti-
mates the amount of the project's net financial benefits, but the dis-
tribution is not altered much.
For Footnotes 2/ and 3/ see page 17.



ANNEX X
Page 17
2/ The difference between wages and benefits paid to unskilled labor with
the project and shadow wages has been entered here as a financial
benefit, the assumption being that unskilled labor would have been
paid on average shadow wages in alternative occupations. This would
likely overestimate the benefits of unskilled workers. In addition,
one half of tips has been entered as a benefit, on grounds that un-
skilled labor receive tips on top of a minimum salary that normally
would have been sufficient to attract them to employment in tourism.
Some semi-skilled and skilled labor, on the other hand, receive basic
salaries that are normally lower than in alternative occupations in
which case the tips become essential to attract them to tourism employ-
ment.
3/ Includes the profits of Government agencies, such as FONATUR, and
utilities, in addition to taxes.
Since no consumer surpluses were calculated in the urban development com-
ponents of the project, the benefits accruing to the poorest segments of
society have not been fully accounted for. A more detailed discussion of
the benefits to the local population is presented in Annex XI.



ANNEX XI
Page 1
MEX.ICO
\ APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
SOCIAL ASPECTS
I. Introduction
1.        The social impact of tourism development in Mexico has to be
evaluated in the light of present tourism sector policies. A first factor
affecting the nature, extent and value of the impact is the presence or
absence of planning. Development of the tourism sector in Mexico in the
past, as well as other sectors, was characterized by a lack of effective
government controls and regulations. An example of this is Acapulco, a
beautiful but polluted bay, whose surrounding hills are eroded and lined
with squatter settlements without community services, water, sewerage, or
electricity, In the late 60s the Government decided to become more active
in the planning of the tourism sector, so that Mexico could, among other
things, avoid repeating costly economic and social mistakes of the past.
Current tourism sector policies emphasize:
(a) the need for development of the sector in those regions
where tourism can be a major source of income and employ-
ment and can curb migration to urban areas;
(b) the need to provide necessary social amenities to the local
population (housing, education, health, training, etc.)
while developing facilities for tourists;
(c) the need to encourage local ownership and participation
in tourism development; and
(d) the importance of providing holidays for Mexicans of all
income groups.
In implementing some aspects of these policies the Government has through
FONATUR, obtained remarkable results in effectively coordinating and
executing the development of two new resort areas: Ixtapa and Cancun.
II.  Developments in Cancun and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo
Cancun
2.        With the implementation of this first integrated resort on a
deserted tip of the Yucatan peninsula, Cancun's population grew from 117



ANNEX XI
Page 2
people in 1970 to 15,000 in September 1974 at the height of its con-
struction phase,leveling off to a population of 10,050 in September 1975.
Many of its inhabitants come from the two neighboring states, Yucatan and
Quintana Roo.
3.        In spite of careful planning,experience in Cancun has shown that:
(a) living conditions in camps for construction workers
were often subhuman;
(b) urban development proceeded faster than planned;
(c) rapid urban growth led to a keenly felt lack of social-
infrastructure;
(d) rapid development created a housing shortage for middle
and lower income families;
(e) in addition to physical facilities, there is need for
community development efforts to tackle day-to-day
problems of the population;
(f) training programs are essential;
(g)  unless provision is made for linkages to agricultural
and other sectors, shortages will occur affecting adverse-
ly the cost of living (this is being rectified under
Phase II of the Pider Program); and
(h) it is essential to have periodic surveys of the popu-
lation to monitor social and other developments.
Ixtapa-Zihuatanej o
4.        FONATUR's second resort project, Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo, is located
on the Pacific coast in the state of Guerrero, about 240 km north of
Acapulco. It is in an extremely poor region of the country with hligh
unemployment rates and social unrest. FONATUR's plans called for the
development of the small fishing village of Zihuatanejo, which was to be
developed both as a secondary resort and a service center for the main
tourism zone at Ixtapa. Approximately one-third of the funds assigned to
the project were used for urban development purposes. Land had to be
acquired for the development from three different ejidos.i/ The ejida-
tarios consented to and requested expropriation of their land for tourism
and urban development. It took over two years, however, to finally acquire
the land and agree on the amount and type of compensation.
g   A communal land ownership system dating back to pre-Colombian times
and re-instituted at the time of the revolution (para. 22).



ANNEX XI
Page 3
5.        Work in the tourism zone at Ixtapa, however, proceeded accord-
ing to the original schedule and an influx of construction workers resulted
in a housing shortage and an increase in consumption and prices. At the
height of construction activities, some 5,000 workers lived in camps with
primitive facilities. Most workers came from the surrounding hill areas,
going back to farming when this activity required their attention. About
20% stayed in Zihuatanejo, largely those at the semi-skilled or skilled
level. All inhabitants are now receiving clear titles to their land lots,
a first for Mexico and benefiting from water, sewerage, electric and tele-
communications services. People have built new houses. The winding
streets have been preserved, public laundry areas installed and low cost
housing projects started. Community centers and schools now operate, a
training institute run by the Mexican Institute for Social Security (IMSS)
turns out skilled construction and maintenance workers, small industries
are being fostered and a consumer cooperative operates ten stores.
A.       FONATUR is also making an effort to create a "host mentality" by
organizing a "tourism week" contests for the best local dish, open-house
dinner invitations for tourists, instruction in guiding and town clean-up
for young boys, training for taxi drivers and boatsmen, tourism courses
and English language classes at school.
7.        The population of Zihuatanejo has more than doubled; it is be-
coming a city of high physical quality, with increasing social and economic
opportunities. It has been an experience in participatory planning for
FONATUR and the residents involved. Without FONATUR's community develop-
ment efforts the land problems would not have been solved as peacefully
nor would the construction work have proceeded as raDidlv as it did.   The local
government had neither the financial resources nor the management capacity
required to obtain and promote a project of this nature.
III. Plans for Baja California
A. Background
8.        The state of Baja California is a sparselv populated state
(167,666 people in 1975) which since 1960 has experienced a net increase
in population due mainly to immigration from the mainland. Agriculture is
the most important activity, although it is beginning to employ less and
less people (Table 1, page 4). The state of Baja California fares well when
compared to conditions elsewhere in the country. It has a low illiteracy
rate (3%), low indices of mortality and morbidity, high indices of health
and education facilities per capita; all favorable preconditions for
development. These figures, however, do not show the distribution of
services among the population, a large proportion of which is concentrated
in the capital city of La Paz, It is probable that many small rural
communities have far fewer services. Also the distribution of these
services among different income groups is not even. Lower income classes,
especially in rural areas, are part of a complex socio-economic situation
characterized by bad hygiene, insufficient nntrition, and inadequate



ANNEX XI
Page 4
housing, water and sewerage facilities.
Table 1.  Baja CalIfornia Labor Force Composition
% of State Labor       % Change
Sector                Number        Force (1970)          from 1960
Agriculture           12,035               34.5              - 17.2
Manufacturing          2,726                7.8              + 77.9
Services               6,488              18.6a/             + 56.7
Construction           2,059                5.9              +122.6
Commerce               3,642              10.5               +141.7
Other Activities       7,914               22.7              +  2.2
Total           34,864             100.0
a/ Which puts Baja California among the states with a higher than
average service sector labor force (in percentages), mostly
employed in the tourism sector.
Source: Mexico, Census 1960, 1970.
B. Existing Conditions in the Project Areas
San Jose del Cabo
9.        The town of San Jose del Cabo is the center of a group of seven
small settlements. The total population of the area including the settle-
ments was estimated at 8,330 in January 1976, of which about half reside
in the town of San Jose del Cabo itself. Although the local inhabitants
in this area are relatively young (35% are under 13 and 78% are under 28
years of age) and the level of education high (only 0.2% of the adults are
illiterate), only 20% of the population is economically active. Sources
of income include among others construction, trade and agriculture (Table 2,
page 5). The average monthly income per family is Mex$4,613: approximately
20% of the families earn incomes below the legal minimum wage, with higher
percentages for the surrounding settlements.
10.       Although a sizeable portion of the family budget is spent on
basic necessities, the nutrition of the population of San Jose is not ade-
quate in quality; only 15% of the population gets a complete diet. FONATUR's
community development activities could do much to decrease the deficiency
in the nutrition and lower the child mortality rate which now results from
this situation.
11,       Most of the families own their houses (85% of the population)
with the remainder paying an average of Mex$980 per month for rented faci-
lities. Most houses in the town itself are hooked up to the municipal
utility systems, i.e., 90% to the water system, 40% to the sewerage system



ANNEX XI
Page 5
(which does not work) and 88% to the electricity network. The average
cost for water and sewerage services is Mex$26 monthly. The settlements
outside the town do not have adequate utility services.
Table 2. San Jose del Cabo and Loreto
Percentage Breakdown of Persons Employed in Each Sector
San Jose del Cabo    Loreto
(M)             (%)
Hotels                                             3.5             12.6
Conmercial activities                            10.6              12.6
Construction                                     16.9              11.3
Domestic servants                                  3.5              2.8
Agriculture, fishing, animal husbandry           10.6              29.6
Public services                                    8.4             11.3
Government employment                            14.1              11.3
Other                                            32.4               7.0
Craftsmen                                          --               1.5
Total             100.0            100.0
Source: FONATUR Survey, January 1976.
12.       San Jose del Cabo has several schools and shops which classify
it as a small urban center. The health facilities include a health
center with 18 beds, and a consulting room run by the Mexican Institute
for Social Security. San Jose del Cabo has many labor unions and pro-
fessional associations, several banks and a local Chamber of Commerce.
Social organizations include PTA's, INPI women's club and committees
for material improvement of the town. The family unit, nucleus of all
social organizations, is rather unstable at the lower-income level.
13.       Tourism is fairly well developed along the coast between Cabo
San Lucas and San Jose del Cabo. In San Jose del Cabo itself only 3.5%
of the people work in hotels and restaurants, but tourism activities
are increasing with the opening up of souvenir shops, boat rental faci-
lities, and a black coral jewelry workshop. Also, people from the
communities close to Los Cabos migrate during the tourist season to
work in hotels (e.g., in La Ribera, Santiago and Miraflores 26%, 4.4%
and 5.6% respectively of the economically active population are engaged
in the tourism sector).
Loreto
14.       Loreto, a fishing community of 3,176 inhabitants (January 1976)
or about 590 families, is poorer and much less developed than San Jose del
Cabo. Half of the population (49.6%) is under 13 and two-thirds is under
28 (66.8%). Twenty-three percent of the population is economically active.



ANNEX XI
Page 6
Many of the young people migrate to La Paz in order to earn a living; the
remaining population works mainly in agriculture and fishing (30%).
Construction, hotels, shops and public services provide other sources of
employment (Table 2). The average monthly income per family is Mex$3,480.
About 35% of the income earners earn less than the legal minimum wage, and
about half of those work in the agricultural sector. Ninety percent of the
population owns their own house and the other 10% pays an average of Mex$510
per month for rent.
15.       Loreto has a municipal water supply system serving 89% of the
houses. The water is chlorinated and free of disease-spreading organisms.
There is no sewerage system, but 45% of the houses have an individual septic
tank and 52% have a latrine. Electricity reaches 95% of the houses. Garbage
collection is frequent and garbage is burnt outside the village.
16.       Loreto has two kindergartens and nursery schools, two primary
schools, one secondary school and a preparatory school. There is a
boarding school for the children of farmers living outside the village.
The villagers themselves participate actively in the construction and
maintenance of the schools. Basic necessities are sold in 16 little shops.
Loreto has two hotels (100 rooms). The town has a health center, which is
adequate to serve the local population. The Catholic church represents a
very strong factor in the social life of Loreto. Several associations
of taxi drivers, truck drivers, cattle raisers and a cooperative of fisher-
men complete the social picture of Loreto. It is a community which is
still very cohesive with strong multiple social ties between its members.
The community is very alert to the opportunities which arise from present
day tourism, particularly to the creation of local employment opportunities.
C. Project Design and Impact
17.       The proposed project is designed in such a way that the local
populations of San Jose del Cabo and Loreto should reap the benefits of
tourism development as much as possible, while adverse effects as far as
they can be foreseen, will be limited. The proposed projects are basically
well conceived integrated tourism-urban development, but have been planned
from the top down. Experience in Zihuatanejo has shown the need to in-
volve the population at an early stage; this need has been partially met
by keeping the population of Loreto and San Jose del Cabo informed about
the proposed investment activities at a much earlier stage than in other
projects, by starting community development activities before initiation
of project implementation. Doing more than this is not feasible in Baja
California. The local governments are not in a position to be "partners"
to FONATUR. Instead, FONATUR's answer has been to create community
development teams, staffed by capable and sensitive people who are bound
to lessen the adverse impacts of rapid urban development.



ANNEX XI
Page 7
Increase in Population
18.       With the implementation of the project, the populations of San
Jose del Cabo and Loreto are expected to grow to 50,000. Baja CalifoTnia
should have no problem finding workers; it presently has few service
sector workers but can draw people into the service sector from its own
hinterlands. The investments would cause expansion in construction employ-
ment and could effectively increase the labor force in the service sector
without stimulating i-mmigration. However, migrants would still be
attracted and most migrants would originate in the states of Michoacan,
Oaxaca, Jalisco (states with a low per capita income and a large agri-
cultural population) or come from Sonora and Sinaloa (also states with a
large population which are connected by ferries to the peninsula).
19,       Experience in Cancun anid Zihuatanejo show that three distinctive
phases in the growth of population can be expected. During the construction
phase, a large number of temporary migrant workers (without their families)
would come to the development areas, creating demand for housing and other
services. Many of the construction workers would be housed in labor camps
or other temporary quarters; others would require more permanent housing.
Generally, a core of skilled or semi-skilled workers travel from job to job
with the construction companies. Some of the unskilled labor, however,
will be recruited in the area. This construction activity would increase
employment opportunities for the existing population. FONATUR has pre-
pared a construction schedule which estimates the requirements for manpower
of various skill levels for each month.  It intends to require contractors
to hire as many local workers as possible, particularly since it will
alleviate some of the suffering caused by the recent earthquake. FONATUR
also intends to enforce strict adherence to the labor law regulations
prescribing adequate labor camp conditions.
20.       The second growth phase would commence with the operation of the
hotels and other facilities. Again, the higher management levels would
come from other places in Mexico, but middle and lower skilled staff could
be hired from the region, especially if the hotel training school in La Paz
operates satisfactorily. Indirect employment will begin to be generated
as demand for products and services increase, particularly from the agri-
cultural sector. In this phase it is expected that families, rather than
individuals, would settle in both towns.
21.       A third phase of immigration would start when the resort is
established. A distinctive group, with higher income levels (for example,
retired people) would either settle in the two areas or use the facilities
during weekends or vacation periods.
Ejidos
22.       Much of the land in Baja California belongs to ejidatarios.  The
role of the ejidos is a very special one in tourism development in Mexico.
For historic reasons ejidatarios legally have the power to decide whether
or not a tourism project will be allowed to develop on their land. This



ANNEX XI
Page 8
gives them an important role and place in their own community, singling
them out as a group which, temporarily, influences the direction of develop-
ment for the whole community and gives them more power than other members
of the population and municipal authorities. Receiving monetary payments
and free developed urban lots as part of the compensation package, also
singles them out as the first group which will benefit economically
from the new tourism developments.  All these factors lead to change in
socio-economic structure in the community. A new class emerges for the
relatively short time when the community still has its original size and
structure. Later, the ejidatarios become less important, especially if they
continue to be farmers and fishermen, and do not become investors or
operators in the tourism sector. Some may, because training of ejidatarios
will take place as part of the compensation measures.
23.       Ejido members form a relatively small part of the population in
Loreto and live apart in one part of town. They earn their living from
fishing rather than agriculture; in San Jose del Cabo, they are less
centralized and earn their living from agriculture and fishing. The 350
ejidatarios in San Jose del Cabo would receive a sum of Mex$31.2 million
in compensation which will make them a relatively rich group in the commu-
nity. The same situation occurs in Loreto; a group of 60 ejidatarios will
receive Mex$13.1 million in compensation. Not all of the compensation will
be in cash. Ejidatarios in Loreto will receive Mex$4 million and those in
San Jose del Cabo, Mex$6.2 million at the time the presidential decrees
are executed  and the trust funds formed.  The other part of the compensation
will be paid over a period of three years, and will consist of 2 developed
urban lots per family, and the starting of enterprises which will be run
by and for the profit of ejidatarios.  The decisions of the ejido assemblies
to vote in favor of expropriation reflect, in part, FONATUR's effort to in-
volve and inform the ejidatarios about the planned developments from the
early stages on. Also some trips to Zihuatanejo helped to prepare the
ejidatarios better to understand what was meant by tourism development.
Project Plans
24.       In order to cope with the impact of the projects on the existing
communities and plan for the orderly growth in population, several measures
will be taken.
(1) Housing: A deficit of houses, both in terms of quantity
and quality, is prevalent in the whole country and especially in rural
areas, Several Government programs have been developed to assist the
development of housing. Beneficiaries of housing loans in Dublic vrograms
have to fulfill the following conditions: (1) not be the owner of a housing
unit in the same city; (2) be head of a family; and (3) meet credit require-
ments. This last condition varies per program but in most cases it means
that the incomes have to be over or at the level of the legal minimum
salary. INFONAVIT is the only exception; 10% of the credits of INFONAVIT
are destined to families earning less than the legal minimum salary.



ANNEX XI
Page 9
Approximately 65% of the population who are not formally employed or do
not receive regular incomes, do not qualify for current housing programs.
The rural sector is almost completely excluded from these programs,
partly because in the urban areas unions are in a much stronger position
to obtain housing assistance. Attitude studies have shown that people in
the "popular" sector consider a house in itself to be less important than
the availability of basic services (water, sewerage, electricity) and
the security of tenure of the lot-oon which their house is built.
Table 3. Expected Distribution of Family Income Levels in Baja California
by 1983
Housing Program
Estimated Monthly         Sites
Income                %       Income to be Spent          and
Mex $             Population    on Housing              Services
%         Mex$
0-   600         2.0      12.0       0-   72           T
600 - 1,200        9.0      12.5      73-  150                INFO-       Private
1,200 - 2,000       27.0      15.0    151-  300                 NNJT          Banks
2,000 - 4,000       38.0      15.0    301-  600                        FOVI
4,000 - 6,000       12.0      17.0    601-1,020
6,000 -10,000        8.0      19.0  1,021-1,900                                7
10,000 -15,000        2.5       20.0  1,901-3,000
Over  -15,000        1.5       20.0   Over 3,001
25,       The Baja California tourism project calls for the provision of
housing or other facilitles for population of all income levels. FONATUR
will sell urbanized lots with a 5 year repayment period and 12% interest,
with private banks acting as intermediaries providing purchase, construction
or mortgage loans. In addition, FONATUR plans to promote construction of
houses by the public and private sector. For the private sector this would
consist of private contractors putting up uni-family and multi-family units
and making them available for sale or rent. Public organizations would
participate by extending loans to those who are eligible under their
programs or by directly building the houses. FOVI is expected (as in Cancun)
to construct houses which will sell for Mex$120,000 (US$6,000), which with
15 or 20 years repayment period at 10% will require monthly payments of
respectively Mex$1,280 or Mex$1,150 per month. FONATUR also plans to follow
the same procedure as followed in Zihuatanejo, i.e., construct houses and
turn them over to INFONAVIT to select the families who are eligible for them.
26. (2) Sites and Services: Provision has been made under the project
to care for approximately 30-35% of the population which will not be eligi-
ble for any housing program, public or private (see Table 3). In order to
avoid the development of shanty town settlements, the project will make
available 500 lots of 150ma each in both Loreto and San Jose del Cabo. The
lots will be distributed among several blocks in town, to avoid clustering
of low income groups and social stigmatization. The lots will be provided
with water taps (one for ten lots), roads and electricity. Each lot will
also be provided with a simple toilet system. The cost of these facilities
will be Mex$10,000 (US$500) per lot.   FONATUR, which is not expected to



ANNEX XI
Page 10
recover the full investment costs, of the sites and services plots, would
design a payment system that would not bhe a burden and under which rent
payments would count toward the purchase price. The project will-provide
for technical assistance through the community development organization to
help these families construct their own houses with materials made avail-
able at cost. A plan for provision of credits for construction materials
Cin a rotating credit fund) will he drawn up. Flexibility in housing design
to meet the needs of the families will be one of the criteria for the auto-
construction program. All services including treated water, sewerage,
electricity and garbage collection will be provided under the project. The
rates would be set at a level which most-families can afford; for the sites
and services, the rates would be subsidized by FONATUR.
27.       (3)  Temporary Accommodation:  In order to avoid a shortage of
housing and the resulting exorbitant prices charges for services, FONATUR
plans to make nrovision for proper temporary facilities to be financed under
the community services program. The final arrangements for leasing or oper-
ating this facility are being drawn up.
28.       C4)  Training;  Measures have been taken under the project to
construct a training center in each town. These centers would be operated
by the Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS) and would train people
such as carpenters, masons, electricians, and air-conditioning and refrig-
erator mechanics. The promotion of these centers partly compensates for
the expropriated ejido land and is meant especially to give children of
ejidatarios a new profession. The ejidatarios will also (as part of
their compensation) become owners of small industries (e.g., cement and ice
factories). Trainiug in management of these small enterprises would be
provided as part of the pre-opening costs of the project.
29.       (5)  Social Services:  The project would create several social
amenities for the growing population. New schools and health centers are
integrated in the urban plans. A nursery for pre-school children will be
built in both towns to give mothers an opportunity to earn a living; these
nurseries will be operated by the state. Other schools would be built and
operated by state and federal governments, while health centers would have
to be operated by the state health authorities.
30.       Under the project a community development team would be set up
by FONATUR. Based on experiences in other projects, this organization would
be responsible for ensuring a smooth transition and growth of primarily rural
communities to modern urbanized service towns for tourism, with maximum
benefits and participation of the local population in this process. This
entails the following activities:
(a) during the first phase of the tourism development the
community development team will participate in the land
expropriation procedures, advise people on how to reinvest
compensation money, advise on construction of new houses,and
promote training and control conditions in the labor camps;



ANNEX XI
Page 11
(b) during the second phase, it will promote and participate
in the formatton of many community services, e.g.,
consumer and producer cooperatives and associations,
environmental hygiene; and
(c)  in the third phase, its role diminishes to a tourist
community development organization and its activities
will be to educate tourists and the host population
about each other, train the local inhabitants in tourism
activities and organize activities for tourists and
population.
31,       FONATUR plans to create a team for each town; approximately one
professional for every 350 families, The project would finance
housing and transport for this team.  Experience has shown that early
introduction of community development efforts is important. These
activities started in Baja California in 1976.
32.       (6)  Linkages to the Agricultural Sector:  FONATUR will, as
part of project activities, estimate needed quantities of agricultural
produce. These estimates have been made for FONATUR's other projects and
will be based on consumption habits of tourists and the urban population.
FONATUR will present a plan for the use of recycled sewerage water for
irrigation purposes to the Bank. The estuary area in San Jose del Cabo
Is in a semi-arid countryside, an Ideal place for agricultural production,
especially for perishable crops like fresh vegetables. FONATUR would
cooperate with other government organizations which already foresee
investments and training in hydrophonic vegetable production for the
development of date orchards in Loreto and citrus, papaya and avocado
orchards in San Jose del Cabo.
D. Conclusions
33.       If tourism development is well planned, the level of available
services to the local population is much higher than would have been
the case without proper planning. Concommitant urban development leads to
better houses, availability of infrastructure, hospitals, schools and other
urban services. The non-incorporated segments of the population (rural
and informal urban sectors), however, do not benefit from these services
unless special arrangements are made (e.g., health clinics, sites and
services), as done under the project. Unplanned industrial and urban
development leads to higher land prices and speculation, attracts migration
for which no proper provisions are made in housing, physical and social
infrastructure, leads to resentment on the part of the original population
toward newcomers if the original population tends to become submerged, and
leads to the development of a new social structure, new classes and problems.
All these foreseeable adverse effects of "boom-towns" have been forestalled
as much as possible in the Baja California tourism project by proper advance
planning,



ANNEX XI
Page 12
34.       The social impact of the project can be valued in several ways.
The immediate impact on the communities will be the short-lived emergence
of the ejidatariosas an important social group. The second and positive
impact will be caused -more directly by the cVanges in the urban environment
brought about by the project, i.e., a better, safer and healthier environ-
ment (water, sewerage, well-constructed houses for each income group,
electricity, etc.), more oppoTtunities to learn a profession and earn a
living in the two towns themselves, instead of having to migrate to other
towns or the mainland and relatively high incomes for those working in the
tourism sector.
35.       The negative impact for the existing towns will be caused by
rapid urban development. This rapid urban development in basically
rural communities will bring about many changes for the present local
population: the social structure of the village will undergo changes,
new classes will develop, new economic and social power relationships will
emerge, and new social organizations, formal and informal, will be formed.
Experience elsewhere suggests that communities which are cohesive and have
multiple overlapping social networks are better able to cope with changes
in their environment and lifestyle. In that sense, Loreto, a more cohesive,
more rural community, is probably better equipped to cope and adapt to the
new environment and take advantage of the opportunities than San Jose del
Cabo, which is already partially urbanized.
36.       The impact of tourism, however, will not be known immediately.
Both communities now attach a positive value in their attitudes towards
tourists and tourism as a means for development of their community and
as a means of earning or increasing their incomes. Community development
activities would have to further this positive feeling and guide the
population toward realistic expectations of the benefits and develop pride
in the population in being a host and support community for tourism.
Generally speaking, the impact of foreign visitors to the project areas
(largely from the US) is not likely to affect changes in value systems in
scope or direction, other than those already occurring in the present
day Mexican society. In fact the influx of international tourists could
bring about, as in the rest of Mexico, a much stronger and deeper appreci-
ation of the national cultural heritage.
37.       Careful monitoring by the community development teams will be
crucial in detecting and solving potential problems. Two forms of monitor-
ing of the developments in the communities and in the project areas have
been foreseen in the project. FONATUR would continue to hold annual or
semi-annual surveys of the socio-economic situation of the population.
These data would support the day-to-day monitoring activities of the
community development team. Secondly, the community development team
will be represented in the board of the trust funds that will manage
investment activities in the areas. Part of the costs of the monitoring
activities are included in the project.



ANNEX XII
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
1.        The peninsula of Baja California is a fascinating and intriguing
predominantly desert biome which seems dead and sterile, but which is, in
fact, abundant with webs of life in complex and little understood eco-systems.
Baja California's attractions include a dry warm climate, clear blue waters,
beautiful beaches, towering mountain ranges (including ancient rock paintings
in caves), deserts with innumerable cacti (110 known succulent species, about
60 of them endemic), flowers and trees such as the elephant tree and the
bizarre Bojuum or Cirios tree, and some of the world's richest maritime
fauna (more than 1,000 species, including marlin, whales, dolphins, sailfish,
sharks, yellowtails, giant squids. and octoDi). The environmental adaptation
of fauna and flora is especially remarkable due to eco-isolation resulting in
numerous endemic, indigeneous species. Because of its inaccessibility and its
desert climate (only 61 mm of average annual rainfall), human development
efforts have been limited. The soil conditions have further hampered develop-
ment and where permanent water sources are available (the Colorado River),
salinization is affecting the agricultural potential.
2.        The delicate environment described above could be upset for a
variety of reasons, including indiscriminate, unplanned human interference.
The already constructed transpeninsular highway could result in erosion,
pollution and environmental impoverishment particularly when traffic volumes
increase. There is also the potential danger of indiscriminate development
having a detrimental impact on fish and bird life in the Sea of Cortez.
3.        Another danger is posed by the scarcity of water in the peninsula.
All developments should be reviewed in light of their future water needs
since underground water reservoirs limit the peninsula's capacity for develop-
ment. Too much depletion of the water resources has already led to saliniza-
tion of the fertile valley of St. Domingo, and several areas in the north
of the peninsula.
4.        The Mexican Government realizes the importance of environmental
protection. A sub-secretariat for these matters has been created. The
governments of Mexico and the US plan a joint study on the impact of the
recently completed highway on the environment. Several federal agencies
are involved in different aspects of environmental policies on the peninsula.
Certain plants have been put on a "protected list" and only limited exploita-
tion is allowed. Hunting of wild sheep is being regulated and is allowed



ANNEX XII
Page 2
only during certain seasons. National parks have been established on the
peninsula by the Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works in nine
zonesl!/ and by the Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources in
two additional places (Constitucion de 1857 and San Pedro Martin). The
lagoon of San Jose del Cabo and the extreme point of Cabo San Lucas are
among them as well as several bays where the gray whales mate. The state
government, conservation institutes, and the Secretariat of National
Patrimony collaborate on research and funding of conservation activities.
An integrated environmental policy for the whole peninsula however has
not been formulated, nor is enforcement of the existing decrees and regula-
tions very effective.
5.        In the design of the project, great care has been exercised to
preserve natural environment as much as possible (Annex I): there will be
minimum disturbance of existing vegetation and green zones; natural ground
cover will be planted where needed; no construction will be allowed on
primary, secondary and tertiary dunes which can    easily shift   during
bad weather; the oasis near Nopolo will be preserved; the sweet-water lagoon
in San Jose del Cabo will be cleaned and dredged; a water management study
will be undertaken that will recommend ways to protect the lagoon in
San Jose del Cabo and help recharge the aquifer; other studies, financed
under the project, will aim at classifying all fauna and flora material in
the project areas and make recommendations on the conservation; and lastly,
all waste-water will be recycled and be used for irrigation purposes.
6.        In summary, the proposed project, as planned, is a fine example
of resources management for the benefit of the population, and will not
result in undue harm to the environment. It is in keeping with the objectives
of local authorities, who favor a balance between development needs and the
need to conserve the environment. There are environmental risks to the
project. The local climate can be harsh and difficult to cope with. For
more than four centuries people have attempted to subdue the peninsula. The
peninsula is adjacent to the San Andreas fault line and thus geologically
active. Cyclones, locally referred to as "chubascos" often reach full
hurricane strength and although most dissipate their energies elsewhere to
the south and west in the Pacific, some hit the peninsula. FONATUR, however,
is well aware of the environmental issues and all existing records on hurricanes,
seismic activity, climatic and geohydrologic conditions have been considered
in choosing the project locations and designing the project components.
1/ Cabo San Lucas, the extreme point; Lagoon of San Jose del Cabo; Sierra
de la Laguna; Isla de Espiritu Santo; Zone of Punta Chinato; Lagoon
of St. Ignacio; Lagoon of Ojo de Liebre, Sierra de S.Francisco and the
paleontological zone of La Custre de S. Francisco.






MEYTh SAJIA CALIFOI'NIA TOURISM PfROJECT
SCHEDULE OF IMPLEMENTATION
V.,.               1977                            1978                            1978os
IMPLEMENTATION CHART                         G-wa    10          20    30      8 1      0l  t      20     30       40  10      20      30         40    10   j20        30      40
IV  A -0, ,on  O,                       -----------   --------
0.1.0   T~ilI-Ii
0OOIOOOO      --I -----V----III
D.,-   'l     E,    ---------4-*                            I Ii           i          I    I        II1
III  F,,.I to.,.  ii
F_ ,n, D          O     P.0,R0.-I
IX  Door  II o1
S---Soo,c  .I C.-           oI-1n-----
-T       - --- --- --- -- ---      --- ---           .   ....   - . 4. ..   .
A  R. -4.gCo.ao-  o    IfC.
IO.ltO-- -IC - -. ,dd.N  .. ------.. -q
ai,d,, -d C---, L00 .,..I LC-.
- Ed.= adC--,X.-, S., JOU d. Ca8o I (L. CES.)
-8dlgnOog,ctnoICII    O
A Tour,..,, Am  INOPOL IIo I I C B 
Nato Su8InII,040a15----------------..............
E W mo...............                              ....... ---
-------                ........             ---------4--rr -
C. LU-t A-,o.
E: ..ooo y  ,o.     4 -. ,     ..........
CoIn-I  I
&    T ,.,    nd To ,,,,   --  ---------- ..
D ..or INVwo1,.ogo--I"~
FI.oFnom&E............             -----         ----
En06nT=  ,a, T  annano.
Emom-------------
8aSan Jos do Cf. Aloo,-,I
C Ho., IS 400  41 CObol
--------------------t,O   SoOt, .  .-- ..
$ydooIoaI Stun         ------------------------
T.....Ma..,...oono   Sd------- ----
U.t. of L-a  A.0mn
EST MATED QUARTERL   EXPENDITURES  & OSBURSEMENT          1977                -           1878              1187                                           1880                 O
I,, 50010 USolan)                                                           -30    -10       IS      20      30      80      so       s0     70       80                     "a10  1  120    ITO30
QUARTEAL, TOTALS        ~E,nn,oo,,                           1.835   I 5      ..4      50 30 3         28    7029373 73 707    77S    7.78                     7 784~  7 'TI   3 390   2 771 03 848
QIJARTERLO TOTALS                         ~~~~~~~~D,tA.-.,                            ?.206   1.805   17       .30     .27 31          348 301            O     33 43    4 156   2.19 01 700
E,oon~oo,,  835   3608   7 733  1! 781 I5.074  1838243    21    884 4.5  5848  217.8   7  O    lO    83 80  8384
CUMULATIVE TOTALS                                        E-ftO0   l,to,      838   315    18    48 03                                        184    130284    8713l2J346   34131003
.ao 5,1.,,, L,a8.I,.v Palno  G~~~~~~~~a,an,o, P,,o . AoaI,s,t 41 8,Os     RIte,                              8.2                       COt,tl',C~~30124  34 38 01lo 700ooII70






-7-7~~~~~  .   77777r, -~~~af 
l-  " ? = (' ' = . 0    0  t; [  t    t: - 9  -,; '.    -                          S rmNlAA&rt( o
: f  X \,' t                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0          E 'S 
0  0                                         Ba       \                                            ILOMTERE30
- t -  - X      ~       -  ~\ \L :  t                ' AREAOF-MAP 
PA CIFfC                 C
P-~to Pe.6- L. 
110,
C>ip                                                                     The bsand-no show-o ths -ap do not
I                                           mipS,-  eadiiniotnoae   o    ea~~~mt..  Pt...i hy) the
World Bank and it- ffdiiate
0 20 40 60 -0 00               200
-30-                                                                               K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILIOMETERS  3'
P A CI f /                                                       "  EL DE LAG OAA
G UADALUPE I&                             1                 l5"."UO~~~(i
SAN LORSENO
OL   A fV                                                                                                        N
S Sesbeoi'esn,e ~~~~~~~~~~~~4ewS~~Gy-28'
-28'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
26P            AAE XICO                                             ES~~~~~>     L~&~ 
B&AJA- CALIFORNIA  TOURISM  PROJECT                                                                     SAN CTA11NA l$li        poss~
PROJECT  LOCATIONS                                              Tgen.ns    D     -      A55i-ACR 7Y55.
*      Proect Locatio=s
t :;   + 0New International Airports                                                                         0 . j.
ExisTsng Internotfonal Airports                                                                          /
Ports ornd Fany TermirnaJs                                                                                     SA* S
 Stote Capi-tals'
0       -0 - -   terry R7c?esuf0 0;00                      0     t                                 00es   l;04f 0-00
Tronspeninsular -Highw6y                 ..24-
Prived Roads
-  -: 0  --- State BoLindaries-
-          nteenationol B                              bOJ'( OdCNCF _e__
RELIEF INWMETERS
00r _
1066m                                                                                    -
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~& _  ,    tOn -      Xf   0|E-d000   f 0                    ;                0i20f0ff,   f;,20f A 






IBRD 12650
ToaPari\ \                                                                                                                                           .. 109-4M  MARCif 1977
X  -,                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEXICO
-. 32\ 1, --BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
St-, 9  F  f  - ,                                          ~~~~SAN JOSE DEL CABO AREA PLAN
S w                                                                     \ \re ,$,,\ _ - ''' X i New Residential
//   7                                                      tsuvnst r , '>. \s, R                                    esort Hotels and Apartels
//             ' -   '                                                                                       0 -  \    - -- _      Service Industrial
Commercial
/0 --\i f   ,   \ \ \\.,wA'San Jose del Cabo  (Existing Town)
1/ t'l '                                 1z3 >Mx24'>l'; '/-S '> X \  tL   0 Villages
.'.\   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~/  Second Stage Development
/ 7   \ M 4\ t ' ,j  :'oi      \                       ,@\5t \\Future Development
\\!   \                                      '                                        ait -t " X Conservation and Nature Preserves
*  Parks
|  \\ t>\\\\z0WLvIs       <5; \                   tI                       _      Trciler Park
,iViF.ENY   1a-E-7\- \  Nr.    (                       I                        =    Agriculture                                     El Crdoocito
E ,<                                   0         r       :                        :  S\Xt\ &t\ \ Z ,   /  -   . Beaches
Project City Boundaries
o      New Cemetery
\   \\  \ SEs1    }  /   ,, /  /                  Transpeninsular Highway
'0  \\    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\                   / ~~~~~~Roads
\ \s \\\fXf s-                        7                  |                   / ,./ o  -Airport Property Line
\>\o- \u Sruo6 iroobo               /               ~---  Creeks                                                             -
-- S                 /             r-,,  50-   Contour Lines, 50 Meter In
'~~ ~~~~                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~ -d.A,i,i
200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io000u   O ,po~
5~~ ~~~ ~~                                  ~         ~~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ Si '0 or or  r 0     - Co
[XS   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A th& -Pd






IBRD 12651
709140'                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1957
50                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEXICO
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
z.4                                             ~ ~~~~~~~SAN JOSE DEL CABO LAND USE PLAN
10  200        400      600       890
9                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS  5
V  00i~~~E.   0  Rfl ~~.. ............
25Th~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
20
'3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
A                                                                                                                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ -                                                 Ljdo  is  tg   eeomn
U 5 A                                                                                                                  A*  Ae
E4t~S ResortHtlelsn
USA  '~~~~~~~~'''    ''y  o                             1-/                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ParoetectyBunare
..... .......f itlPa TwrBunare
350  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      '                               7:;;                                   -p5W Rec~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~raton  CenteulrsHqhc
'  9                                                                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Siesandar  eReices
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1                                                                               - - '-   ndou RiesettneMenter
5AM JOwD~~~~~~~~~~~L) CABO                                                               All  H~~~~~~~~~~~~~EiastPing tas Bondaetris






MEXICO                                             pr.
BAJACALIFORNIATOURISMPROJECT                                  F         /
LORETO AREA PLAN                               F
t   Xi   0   '~~~~~y'''L~~~~~'  o           _.   \N      X       /W~~~o  P
I      ;     0: :)          , C: f               m-'                                     StA 'D
*>; ; t'~~~~~~-                                           />4 'f--    0      -'- 
:                               .- N0wft* W
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
2 9       ;'    - .VX. :=S                        0     ti     b; =Eje- 
,,_Y  ,a ccoo    Sox. g E   X  o   Co ,
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S                                                          rotool NoONPof --WIi     -lovoa
<   _                        '                      N             =  =        f       L?_         X   b! ~  t






RN~~~~~~~~~~N
7                               0~~~~~~~                                                        (~
A                  /         
p.                            t~~~~~~~~  N~~~~~                                                                                           I'~~2
L,.,t f F,,It St-g- D ... 1.p-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I
S.-    Stge   -I.-toA
F.t- ~ ~ ~ ~ /0 D-                                                                              'N.
R.-t H./ k
Ap,e
C-.I.Ap.t W-
P-CodR-wou - C-pot-to,s"Hoe
Poss/1 uroCo..  ooot
-Crt-o-ie CulurA   eoer&O
......   Buudo,-s Agot-t Roys
Tt-onsgi-slor H,gh...y
ede-trio- Wol1ttoeg
---u--Cotou-, loteruo 5 Motor
o  lou    200     300      uu                     ruuu,,-rt 
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
LORETO (NOPOLO BEACH) LAND USE PLAN



