Document of
The World Bank
FILE         COPY                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2060-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
April 22, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriatIon.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
The fixed exchange rate of US$ 1 = Mex$ 12.50 which had
prevailed since 1954 was abandoned on August 31, 1976 and the Mexican
peso has been floating since then. In recent weeks the rate of exchange
has fluctuated in the range of Mex$ 21 - 23 to the US dollar. On
April 22, 1977 the peso traded at 22.47 per US dollar.
Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31
Glossary of Abbreviations
FONATUR           2        National Fund for Tourism Development
SAHOP             =        Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works
SARH              =        Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
NAFINSA           =        Nacional Financiera, S.A.
CFE               =        Federal Electricity Commission
TELMEX            =        Telecommunications Corporation of Mexico
IDB               =        Inter-American Development Bank
ASA               =        Airports and Auxiliary Services
RAMSA             =        Aeronautical Radio Corporation of Mexico
NACOA             =        National Company of Aviation Combustibles



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$42 million to help finance a tourism project in Baja
California. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of
grace with interest at 8.2 percent per annum. 1/
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed
in "An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. Country data sheets are contained
in Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three most recent decades, the Mexican economic system has
been outstandingly successful in achieving sustained and rapid growth while
maintaining stability in prices and the balance of payments. Since 1940, the
annual average GDP growth rate has exceeded 6 percent. Inflation averaged
less than 5 percent a year from the mid-1950s to 1972, and the dollar value
of the peso fixed in 1954 was maintained at that level until the August 1976
devaluation.
4.        The Mexican strategy for development has relied on a combination of
public action and private profit. The Government has played an important role,
both in promoting key industries such as power, steel and petroleum, and in
creating a regulatory and institutional framework within which private groups
could compete but with assurance of overall continuity and stability. As a
formula for growth, this system has served Mexico well; it has however led to
a sharpening of contrasts between people and among regions. This was not
entirely coincidental; the share of the Government in the economy was kept
low for many years, and the scope of redistributive policies was necessarily
limited as long as tax revenues remained under ten percent of national income.
1/   In the attachment to my memorandum on Grace Periods and
Final Maturities on FY77 Bank Loans (R76-206 of August 9, 1976) Mexico
was included in the group of countries with a 1975 GNP per capita of over
US$1,075. The classification was then based on the official parity rate
of Mex$12.5 per US$, but subsequent float of the currency has established
a more appropriate rate (currently around Mex$22.5 per US$) and Mexico is
now included in the group of countries with GNP per capita in the range
of US$521 - 1,075, with the corresponding loan terms.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duti. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriation.



- 2 -
The Government played a crucial role in the development of private commer-
cial agriculture (through irrigation and credit policies), industry (through
the provision of infrastructure and protection from imports), education,
social legislation, and financial policies, but it did not concern itself
primarily with the problems of the poorest sections of the population.
While the land reform of 1915 was sustained, fiscal resources were in-
sufficient to develop major programs to improve the economic status of
its beneficiaries. Moreover, in spite of rapid and sustained economic
growth over this long period, a very high demographic growth rate--about
3.4 percent per year--made an adequate absorption of the labor force in
productive employment extremely difficult. It is estimated that 40 per-
cent of the labor force is still engaged in marginal occupations, rela-
tively unproductive and hence poorly paid--or openly unemployed.
5.        The Echeverria Government (1971-1976) combined past growth policies
with greater efforts in favor of the poor. Attempts made in these years to
alleviate the poverty of the countryside and to redress some of the imbalances
between rural and urban Mexico included, on the rural side, a revised Agrarian
Reform Law (1971) and a new Federal Water Law (1972), both of which were
intended to promote a more equitable distribution of basic agricultural
resources. These measures were complemented by changes in the sectoral allo-
cation of agricultural credit in order to increase the share of low-income
farmers and ejidatarios (members of ejidos, which are a form of collective
land tenure based on usufruct), and the introduction of remunerative support
prices for basic foodcrops. The Government also increased outlays for agri-
cultural research, training and extension services, with particular regard
to the needs of small farmers. Perhaps the most significant innovation
was a new program for integrated rural development with which the World
Bank has been associated from an early stage.
6.        Urban-industrial development was also promoted by heavy public
investment in basic industries--petroleum, chemicals and steel being out-
standing examples--and an innovative workers' housing program has been
financed with a five percent payroll tax. Productive investment was thus
complemented, in the urban as well as the rural economy, by institutional
changes and public expenditures designed to improve the living conditions
of the poor.
7.        The Government's efforts to improve both the country's productive
base and the living conditions of the poor led to a doubling of public sector
expenditures in real terms over the period 1970-1976. Tax revenues were
also substantially increased, from 9.6 percent of GDP in 1970 to more than
13 percent in 1976, but as this was insufficient to compensate for the
increase in expenditures, the difference had to be financed by internal and
external borrowing. Such policies, together with the frequent and large
wage increases that took place over the period--especially since 1974--
led to high inflation and rapidly increasing balance of payments' current
account deficits. Growing inflation, rising labor costs, preemption of
credit for financing rapidly growing public expenditures, and some official
pronouncements against private entrepreneurship, led to a virtual stagnation
of private sector fixed investment, a reduction in financial savings and
speculative behavior by domestic savers. The rate of growth of GDP slowed



- 3 -
down from an annual average of 6.8 percent during 1965-70 to about 5.0 percent
during 1971-76. Preliminary estimates show that it dropped to 2 percent
in 1976, the lowest growth rate experienced by Mexico since the mid-thirties.
8.        The short-run disequilibria affecting the country at the end of
1975, social and labor unrest, and loss of confidence in the economy led to
strong devaluationary expectations, which in turn led to large capital out-
flows during 1976. Under these circumstances, on August 31, 1976, the
authorities decided to abandon the fixed exchange rate of US$1 = Mex$12.50
which had prevailed since 1954. For several weeks thereafter the peso traded
in the range of 19-20 per US$. However, a general wage increase of about
22 percent was granted shortly after the devaluation and in October a new
wave of speculation forced the Government to let the peso float freely.
After some sizable fluctuations before the inauguration of the new Adminis-
tration the peso has remained rather stable at rates fluctuating between
21 to 23 pesos per dollar since December 1976.
9.        In support of its economic program Mexico has obtained major
support from the IMF. In the last quarter of 1976 Mexico was able to draw
on the Fund for US$480 million (including US$113 million from the gold and
super-gold tranches, US$213 million from the Compensatory Facility and US$154
million from a first credit tranche drawing). For 1977-79 an Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) accompanied by a comprehensive three-year stabilization pro-
gram has been negotiated. This could provide as much as an additional
US$861 million once the increase in Fund quotas becomes effective. A first
drawing of US$100 million under the EFF was made early in 1977. Thus total
IMF support for the Government's program may exceed US$1.3 billion.
Recent Economic Policy
10.       The Mexican program aims at reducing inflation by the end of 1979 to
levels similar to those prevailing in countries that are Mexico's major
trading partners, and simultaneously inducing economic recovery. This is to
be achieved through a combined effort to increase public sector savings,
to maintain real wage growth in line with productivity changes, to increase
exports, to promote financial savings and intermediation and to reestab-
lish a favorable climate for private investment. The Government attaches
particular importance to increased public sector savings in order to reduce
the rate of growth of external and domestic borrowings for financing the
public sector.
11.       Within its first month in office the new Administration launched
several initiatives aimed at improving management of the public sector. A
far-reaching administrative reform aimed at achieving a greater degree of
cohesion between Agencies and Ministries in formulating policy and in carrying
out programs in various fields was announced and immediately put into effect.
A new law giving the Treasury authority to limit the growth of public sector
external borrowings and to ensure the efficient use of Mexico's overall



- 4 -
borrowing capacity was approved by the Congress. Simultaneously another law
containing provisions to improve and modernize the budgetary process and to
centralize it under the new Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting was
also put into effect. Direction of government programs related directly to
production activities were concentrated in two ministries, the Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation (Agricultura y Recursos Hydraulicos) and the
Ministry of National Property and Industry (Patrimonio Nacional y Promocion
Industrial).
12.       With only a few weeks in which to submit its budget for 1977, the
Government made slight modifications in the proposals prepared by the out-
going Administration, but stated its intentions to revise them further, if
appropriate in the light of its own priorities, the effects of the admin-
istrative reform and the requirements of the stabilization program. The tax
base has been broadened, the prices of some goods and services produced by the
public sector have been recently increased (examples: power rates went up
by 52%, petroleum product prices increased by 25%, steel by 15%, telephone
by 30%), expenditures of several public sector agencies have been reduced
in real terms, and a further overall reduction is expected with the imple-
mentation of the administrative reform.
13.       In the annual minimum wage negotiations in January, the Government
was able to negotiate an increase of only 10 percent, which has been viewed
as a demonstration of the serious nature of the Government's intentions to
stabilize prices, and its support from labor. There is therefore every reason
to expect that the situation experienced in 1976 -- when nominal wages
increased by 31 percent compared with a much smaller increase in consumer
prices, 16.1 percent -- will not be repeated. An excess profits tax was
introduced and improved cooperation between business and Government was
signalled in January by the announcement of a package of price, production,
and investment agreements with the private sector to encourage domestic
production of wage goods at low prices and to promote an investment package of
about Mex$100 billion over the next several years. As a result of these
factors and their positive effects on restraining inflationary expectations,
the rate of price increases has been declining steadily. Thus, while the
average monthly increase in wholesale prices was 7.0 percent, and in consumer
prices 3.4 percent, during the four months following last year's devaluation
(i.e. during September-December 1976), the monthly price increases were only
about 2.0 percent during the first quarter of 1977.
14.       At the beginning of March, the Government moved a step further
in the process of implementing its stabilization program by announcing a
set of measures aimed at inducing a recovery of financial savings and
intermediation and thereby loosening somewhat the extremely tight credit
situation affecting the private sector. Reserve requirements were modified
so as to allow a greater share of increased savings to be available for
lending to the private sector; interest rates on term deposits are being
gradually allowed to increase so as to better reflect market conditions; new
limits on the liabilities and assets of the banking system were imposed so
as to increase its stability and independence and to avoid undue concentration
of credit, and new financial assets were created--specifically an issue of



Mex$2.0 billion of "Petrobonds" (indexed to the international price of petrol-
eum). Mobilization of resources by the banking system attained the unusually
high rate of about US$750 million in the first quarter of 1977, signalling the
return of a considerable part of the previous year's private capital outflow.
15.       The current account balance of payments can also be expected to
improve, with the exchange rate at a more realistic level and the April
restoration of excise tax reimbursements (CEDIs) for manufactured exports.
Export revenues have already picked up in the first quarter of this year,
because of higher prices for coffee and tomatoes and easier entry of Mexican
products in the US. Combined with lower imports caused by the slack in
private demand and slower public investment, this has already reduced the
trade deficit to about US$100 million in the first quarter of this year,
compared to about US$660 million during the same period in 1976.
Prospects
16.       In the few months since it took office, the Government has thus
already taken a number of important steps. Indications are favorable for
slowing inflation, reduced speculative behavior and recovery of private
savings. If the Government continues to implement the necessary policies,
economic recovery should also continue; this will provide the necessary basis
for accomplishing important social objectives.
17.       While there are reasons to believe that the prospects are improving,
it will nevertheless be necessary to follow events closely. A mission to
study manufacturing sector prospects and policies visited Mexico in October-
November 1976; the report will be completed shortly. A mission is now in
Mexico to analyze further the current economic situation and the Government's
program.
18.       Even with the best of policies, adjustment from the disequilibria
of the recent past will require several years. The public sector deficit
cannot be eliminated overnight, and even with reduced new external borrowing
the debt burden will be heavy. The debt service ratio was 36.4 percent in
1976, and is expected to increase over the next several years. However,
the continued application of measures such as those described above should
keep the immediate situation manageable and return the economy to an equil-
ibrium growth path. The Bank currently holds about 8% of total medium and
long term public sector borrowings; the Bank's share of public debt service
is about 4%. These ratios are not likely to change appreciably in the coming
years.
19.       The strengthening of the productive base of the economy over the
last six years, through large investments in agriculture, petroleum, petro-
chemicals, electricity, steel, cement and basic infrastructure, enhances
Mexico's long term potential for attaining high GDP growth rates. An out-
standing example of the benefits of some of these investments are the new
possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the recent discoveries
of rich petroleum fields. As of December 1976 proven oil reserves were
estimated at about 11.0 billion barrels which gives a production/reserve ratio



- 6 -
(computed at the 1977 production rate) of more than 30 years. On the basis
of these known reserves, the Government is analyzing alternative investment,
production and export plans for Pemex (state owned monopoly in charge of
exploration, production and marketing of petroleum and related products).
Under the high-production alternative, production of petroleum could grow at
an average annual rate of 19 percent between 1977 and 1982, reaching 2.2
million b/d in 1982 (1976 production was 0.8 million b/d); exports might
increase at an annual average rate of almost 50 percent over the period,
reaching 1.1 million b/d in 1982, the equivalent of US$7.8 billion in
projected 1982 prices (1976 exports were 94.7 thousand b/d).
20.       The prospect of rapidly rising petroleum exports has greatly
strengthened the balance of payments outlook. Even on the basis of somewhat
more conservative projections of petroleum production and exports than those
mentioned above (see Annex I), the current account deficit can be expected to
decline steadily over the next several years, thus reducing Mexico's net
external borrowing requirements. The debt service ratio should begin to
decline after 1980 (although it will increase somewhat in the next few years
because of past borrowing). Thus, Mexico remains creditworthy for external
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
21.       As of March 31, 1977, Mexico had received 47 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$2,607.7 million net of cancellations; of these, 28 loans
totalling US$1,286.7 million were fully disbursed. As of March 31, 1977,
the Bank held US$2,164.3 million of which US$909.5 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 35 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural
development (14 loans for US$903.7 million), 27 percent for power (12 loans
for US$704.8 million) and 21 percent for transportation projects (12 loans for
US$546.7 million); the remaining 17 percent has been for industry (US$300.5
million), water supply (US$130 million) and tourism (US$22 million) projects.
The implementation of several projects fell behind schedule during 1976
due to a scarcity of counterpart funds. The situation has since been reviewed
with the Government and adequate support for the ongoing projects has now been
assured. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31,
1977 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Bank lending was active in FY75 with four loans totalling US$360
million, and in FY76 with four loans totalling US$315 million. In July 1976
the Executive Directors approved a US$95 million loan for a second steel
project but, as stated in a memorandum distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 5, 1977 (SecM77-258), the new Mexican Administration has reconsidered
its investment program for the immediate post-devaluation years and decided to
concentrate a greater share of its investment resources in fields which have a
rapid impact on output and foreign exchange earnings, such as agriculture,
petroleum and tourism; considering the magnitude and long gestation period of
the second steel project, the Government has decided to postpone it sine die,
and the loan was consequently cancelled on April 15, 1977. The proposed
tourism project will thus be the first loan for Mexico in FY77.



-7-
IFC Operations
23.       As of March 31, 1977, IFC had made 13 investment commitments in
Mexico, for a total of US$69.2 million, of which US$37.5 million had been
sold, repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation, US$31.7 mil-
lion, consists of US$27.2 million in loans and US$4.5 million in equity. A
summary statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1977 is presented in
Annex II.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs leading
to continued economic growth, by helping to finance projects that are to make
directly or indirectly significant contributions to output, exports, and
employment; (iii) help resolve critical adjustment problems induced by Mexico's
continued economic growth; and (iv) complement Mexico's domestic savings by
helping to finance economic and social investments in a framework of internal
and external financial stability. In support of the new administration's
austerity measures to overcome a short-term balance of payments constraint, it
is proposed that limited financing of local costs be provided for priority
projects of a social nature in which the foreign exchange costs are low. In
the coming years, the Bank will preferentially support projects that make
relatively modest demands on budgetary resources and have a strong positive
balance of payments effect, and projects of high social priority that improve
health standards, attain higher levels of employment and help to decentralize
economic activity.
25.       In view of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further develop-
ment, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending.
Consistent with the overall framework of country and sector objectives, a
three-tier approach has been developed. First, to strengthen irrigation and
agricultural credit programs so as to meet the demands of a rapidly growing
population more adequately and to generate the foreign exchange needed for
rising import requirements. Second, to raise the incomes of the rural poor
and improve their standards of living through a combination of directly
productive, productive support and social infrastructure investments. Third,
to strengthen Mexico's institutional capability to use scarce agricultural
resources more efficiently.
26.       Bank lending for industry has been aimed at assisting the Govern-
ment's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit and decentralize
industrial activities away from the major (and increasingly congested) urban
areas. Thus, the Executive Directors approved a Second Industrial Equipment
Fund Loan in FY76 for US$50 million, aimed at financing industrial projects
with a positive effect on the balance of payments; a US$50 milion loan made
in FY75 to support a fertilizer project is promoting new poles of development
in the resource-rich southeast region and the north central area and will
help make Mexico independent of imported urea fertilizer in the medium term.



- 8 -
27.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to help
generate additional resources for investment financing. For example, the
Airports Development Project (FY74) of US$25 million was designed in support
of the Government's policy of regional integration; the railway loan (FY76) of
US$100 million supported improvements of institutional aspects and financial
management of the sector. The Mexico City Water Supply Project (FY73) of
US$90 million has been instrumental in the establishment of a specialized
institution for efficient management of water resources in the Mexico Valley,
and in the pricing of water at levels more closely related to costs; a follow-
up project is now being prepared.
28.       The Government is now reviewing with the Bank its borrowing prior-
ities, and pressed to reduce the external deficit on current account, is
giving emphasis to the tourism sector to generate higher foreign exchange
earnings. The proposed project, composed of tourism investments and related
-urban infrastructure in two attractive sites in Baja California, will provide
the opportunity to further tap the west and the southwest U. S., which are
among the largest and richest tourist generating markets. By supporting two
strategically located development poles in the southern part of the Baja
California peninsula, the project will also promote the Government's regional
policy. Urban infrastructure investments and related community development
programs will be important components of this operation, aiming to integrate
tourism and urban development and to improve the quality of life of the local
population, with particular provisions for the poorer sections. The proposed
operation would be the second tourism project in Mexico - experience with the
first tourism project is discussed in para. 40 below. A third project to
assist tourism development through a line of credit in support of hotel
facilities is under preparation. In addition an integrated rural development
project (PIDER II), a maternal and child health project and a regional
development project have been appraised.
PART III - THE TOURISM SECTOR
29.       Mexico stands out as one of the world's most richly endowed tourism
destinations. It offers an impressive array of tourism resources, including
the architectural remains of a series of major civilizations; an agreeable
climate; and excellent and unspoiled beaches along the Pacific and the Carib-
bean Coasts. Climatic conditions make Mexico a year round destination and
visitor flows show only a minor degree of seasonality. Nearly 90 percent of
visitors to Mexico originate in the United States and Canada and for them
it is one of the most accessible truly foreign destination.
30.       Between 1960 and 1974 foreign tourism to Mexico grew at an average
rate of about 11.5 percent a year. In 1975 the number of visitor arrivals
declined by about 4 percent to 3.2 million (the first decline since 1953)
largely because of recession in the US, and Mexico's uncompetitive position



- 9 -
resulting from an overvalued peso. The growth of tourist traffic to desti-
nations such as Acapulco, Puerto Vallarta, Guadalajara and Cancun has been
particularly rapid, and the composition of tourist traffic is also changing,
as more low and middle income visitors are attracted than in the past.
31.       In recent years an important development has been the growth of
domestic tourism and this market will continue to grow in the coming years as
foreign travel has become more expensive for Mexicans. In 1975, it is esti-
mated that 14.8 million Mexicans took vacation and spent a total of 28.4 mil-
lion visitor nights away from home (this compares with a total of 34 million
nights by foreign visitors in the country).
Economic Importance of Tourism
32.       Tourism plays a major role in Mexico's economy by its contribution
to foreign exchange earnings and employment generation and towards a more
balanced regional distribution of economic activities. Mexico's gross foreign
exchange earnings from tourism, excluding border traffic earnings, amounted to
US$800 million in 1975, and represented more than 13 percent of exports of
goods and non-factor services.
33.       It is estimated that the tourism sector currently employs directly
some 400,000 persons, mainly in the hotel and restaurant trade. Significantly,
most of those employed are drawn from the unskilled sector of the population
and have obtained relatively well-paid jobs after little training. Moreover,
tourist demands for handicrafts, transportation and other services spread
economic benefits; for example, it is estimated that the production and
marketing of crafts, with sales of about US$130 million in 1975, involved at
least 5 million Mexicans in the lower 40 percent income segment of the popula-
tion.
Tourism Sector Institutions
34.       Until the late 1960s the Government expenditure on tourism develop-
ment was modest and its promotional role minimal, but the private sector was
successful in building upon the country's unique assets. Such private develop-
ment tended, however, to stress short-term profitability with little regard to
the longer run impact on the economy, the environment and the social situation.
To correct these deficiencies and recognizing the growing importance of the
sector, the Government created in 1969 a special trust fund under the Banco de
Mexico to develop and promote integrated tourism resorts. This institution
was merged in 1974 with another trust fund established under NAFINSA to
finance hotels and other tourism superstructure, and a new fund, the Fondo
Nacional de Fomento al Turismo (FONATUR) was thus created, integrating most
activities of the public sector in the tourism field. The Government also
established in 1974 the Ministry of Tourism, entrusted with a coordinating
role on all aspects of sectoral development, including promotion and training.
Another institution active in the field is the National Council of Tourism
whose principal task is the promotion of tourism abroad.



- 10 -
35.       FONATUR has so far concentrated its infrastructure development ef-
forts on two new sites, Cancun in the Yucatan peninsula (with IDB assistance)
and the Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa area on the Pacific Coast (with Bank assistance),
investing Mex$1.1 billion in Cancun and Mex$0.7 billion in Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa.
Cancun started to operate in 1975 and Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa in 1976; a total of
4,000 hotel rooms are expected to be available at these two sites by the end
of this year. The volume of FONATUR's credit operations has grown at a rapid
pace; as of August 31, 1976 FONATUR had approved 378 credit applications for
a total of Mex$2.8 billion to finance 19,000 new hotel rooms throughout the
country. The sources of funds for FONATUR's credit operations have been
appropriations from the federal budget, Banco de Mexico bond issues and
retained earnings. The overall financial position of FONATUR is sound;
assets amounted to Mex$5.1 billion in August 1976, of which Mex$1.8 billion
were invested in the development of infrastructure and Mex$2.9 billion in
hotel credit operations. FONATUR now employs 275 persons (of which 75 on a
temporary basis to complete the infrastructure projects now underway); from
the start, it has been able to attract highly qualified individuals and is
considered to be one of the more efficient government agencies.
36.       To support a growing tourism industry, the Government has recognized
the importance of training, and about 80 training institutions are now in
operation in the country. The Government and the National Hotel Association
are now in the process of improving coordination of these training facilities
and propose to set up a single organization to prepare and implement a com-
prehensive training program to serve the industry.
Investment Priorities
37.       During the period 1961-1975, hotel and other accommodation capacity
has more than doubled from 91,000 in 1961 to 191,000 rooms in 1975. The
fastest increase in capacity has been in hotel rooms of international class,
which in spite of the slow down in the growth of visitor traffic in 1974 and
1975, have continued to enjoy high occupancy rates. Following the devaluation
of the peso, the prospects for continued growth of tourism are bright. The
Government is stepping up its promotion efforts to attract more visitors, to
the extent possible during the off-season, so as to achieve a higher utiliza-
tion of existing capacity. Overall, with tourist arrivals projected to
increase by 9 percent per year, and assuming higher occupancy rates, it is
estimated that in the next four years some 25,000 additional hotels rooms of
international standards will be needed.
38.       With regard to existing destinations, further expansion of newly
developed resorts such as Cancun and Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa would be possible at a
relatively small cost. However, it would be unrealistic to assume that in the
long term these destinations alone will be able to fully tap Mexico's tourism
market. In these circumstances the Mexican authorities have rightly considered
the need to encourage development at other sites, particularly where some
infrastructure facilities are already available. The proposed project is the
highest priority operation in this category.



- 11 -
39.       Although debt financing for hotel and other superstructure invest-
ments with foreign borrowings, suppliers' credit and domestic bond issues
might be envisaged, it appears that for the time being the industry will have
to continue to rely primarily on term loans from FONATUR. The Government and
the Bank are now considering a tourism development project to channel into the
sector, through FONATUR, long term funds not otherwise available for the above
purposes to the private investors or public institutions involved.
Execution of the First Tourism Project
40.       The first tourism project (Loan 793-ME), approved in 1972, focused
on the development of the Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa area, on the West Coast of
Mexico. This project had goals similar to those of the operation now proposed
and was carried out by the trust fund under the Banco de Mexico which was
absorbed by FONATUR in 1974. The execution of the Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa project
was delayed in its initial stages mainly because of land rights problems, but
with FONATUR's expertise and efficient coordination of the numerous other
agencies involved, implementation is now proceeding successfully. Infrastruc-
ture works have been substantially completed; two hotels are already open for
business, and several others are under construction; over 1,500 rooms are
expected to be available by June 1977. To avoid delays similar to those
experienced with this operation, the Government and FONATUR have arranged to
complete property transfer proceedings early in the course of preparation of
the proposed Baja California project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was prepared by FONATUR and appraised by a Bank mission
which visited Mexico in October 1976 and February 1977. A report entitled
"Appraisal of the Baja California Project" No. 1483-ME dated April 18, 1977
is being circulated separately. A loan and project summary is presented
in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Washington from April 5 to 8, 1977.
The Mexican team was led by Messrs. Arroyo (FONATUR) and Torres (NAFINSA).
Project Resorts
42.       Loreto, one of the earliest settlements in Baja California, is
located on the Sea of Cortez, 360 km north of La Paz, the state capital (see
maps IBRD 12647 and 12648). Its population of 3,000 engages primarily in
fishing and agriculture. Despite inadequate tourism facilities, visitors have
long been attracted by the scenic charm of the area. The Sea of Cortez is
suitable for water sports and fishing and the weather is pleasant throughout
the year. Air access to the area is poor as the Loreto airport is capable of
accommodating only small aircraft. Most visitors arrive by road, using the
recently completed transpeninsular highway. The principal tourism zone would
be located in a site of great natural beauty, along the wide crescent beach at
Nopolo, 7 km to the south of Loreto. Further south of Nopolo is Puerto
Escondido, a protected natural harbor, which is already popular with foreign
visitors.



- 12 -
43.       The San Jose del Cabo site is located about 200 km south of La Paz
on the southern tip of Baja California (see maps IBRD 12647 and 12650). About
3,500 people live in San Jose del Cabo, a city with narrow, hilly streets,
reminiscent of small Mediterranean towns. Beautiful beaches stretch for
kilometers on both sides of the town, and an attractive sweet-water lagoon--a
rarity in a desert region--offers special interest. The climate is like that
of Loreto and the sea is suitable for boating and fishing. Road access is
provided by the recently completed transpeninsular highway and an inter-
national airport is under construction. The main works for water supply have
been recently completed.
Project Description
44.       In each of the Loreto and San Jose del Cabo sites, the proposed
project is composed of the following main elements:
(1) infrastructure and other facilities (electric power; roads;
telecommunication facilities; and environmental sanitation)
for the tourist zones;
(2) a medium category 250-room hotel;
(3) infrastructure for the towns, including water supply and
sewerage, electric power and telecommunications facilities;
(4) airport facilities; and
(5) community development activities, conservation studies and
programs, and a tourism market and economic study.
45.       Private investors have in the past proven reluctant to build the
first hotel in a new destination before all tourism infrastructure is in place
and have delayed hotel investments vis-a-vis what would appear desirable from
a financial or economic standpoint. For this reason, and to set the archi-
tectural tone of the resorts, the project provides for construction of two
pilot hotels with 250 rooms, one for each site; these hotels are expected to
be in operation by the end of 1980. In addition, for successful launching of
the resorts, the Government and FONATUR will take all appropriate actions
(including the provision of adequate financing) to ensure: (a) construction
and operation of 150 additional rooms at each site, to be opened at the same
time as the pilot hotels; and (b) the availability of at least 600 additional
rooms at each of the sites three years thereafter. The Government and FONATUR
will also make their best efforts to have in operation, not later than seven
years after the pilot hotels start to operate, 900 additional rooms at each
site (Section 3.07, Draft Guarantee Agreement). About 3,000 rooms are
expected to be in operation at each site by the end of 1987; most of the rooms
would be constructed by entrepreneurs, the Government and FONATUR's roles
being largely promotional and of direct intervention only as a last resort.



- 13 -
46.       It is estimated that tourism development will attract about 22,000
new residents in each of the towns over the next ten years and to accommodate
them, urban infrastructure facilities will be upgraded and expanded. In
particular, housing for new residents will be financed through existing
federal programs; to help immigrant workers and the very poor who do not
qualify under these programs, special arrangements will be made under the
project to provide land and infrastructure, as well as construction materials
at cost, and technical assistance for self-help housing programs.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$84 million including
physical and price contingencies, with a foreign exchange cost component of
US$42 million. The proposed loan would cover the estimated foreign exchange
requirements and the balance would be provided through budgetary appropria-
tions by the Federal Government, which would also meet any cost overruns.
For 1977, the necessary provisions have been made in the Federal Government's
budget. The proceeds of the Bank loan, excluding those disbursed against the
airport components will be channeled by NAFINSA to FONATUR as equity contribu-
tion.
48.       The project makes provisions for consultants' services to assist
FONATUR in design and supervision. For the project as a whole, consultants
services are estimated to total 1,075 man-months and to cost about US$3.9
million. The average cost of the consultants' services is US$4,500 per man-
month for foreign consultants and US$2,100 for local consultants.
Execution and Operation
49.       FONATUR will be responsible for carrying out the project and will
submit to the Bank for approval final designs, plans, specifications and
regulations for this undertaking. FONATUR has acquired valuable experience in
developing Cancun and Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa and will be able to focus on Baja
California now that the other infrastructure development projects are com-
pleted or nearing completion.
50.       FONATUR will manage two trust funds, one for each resort, which will
be given title to the ejidal land acquired by the Government; establishment of
these trust funds will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section
6.01(b), draft Loan Agreement). FONATUR will be responsible for urban invest-
ment activities and the sale of land to private investors for the construction
of hotels, restaurants, villas and other facilities. During negotiations,
agreement was substantially reached on a statement of operating policies in
this respect. This statement will be finalized by FONATUR in consultation
with the Bank and adopted by June 30, 1978 (Section 3.16, draft Loan Agreement).
FONATUR intends to have the pilot hotels operated and managed by Nacional
Hotelera, S.A., a hotel operating company controlled by FONATUR. Arrangements
made for locating, financing and operating the pilot hotels will be submitted
to the Bank for approval (Section 3.12, draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
51.       FONATUR will contract with the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE)
and the Telecommunications Corporation of Mexico (TELMEX) for design and
construction of the electric power and telecommunications networks, respect-
ively (Sections 3.04 and 3.05, draft Loan Agreement). Assurances have been
obtained that the project areas will receive adequate aviation, water supply,
electric power, telecommunications, health and education services (Section
3.03, draft Guarantee Agreement). The investment cost of the water supply and
sewerage facilities will be fully recovered through sale price of land and
user charges (Section 3.13, draft Guarantee Agreement).
52.       A large and modern hotel training center which includes a 109-room
practice hotel has recently been completed by the Ministry of Tourism at La
Paz. These facilities are considered adequate for the needs of the proposed
project. Details of the training arrangements are being worked out by the
Government which has undertaken to satisfy the staff requirements of the
hotels in the project areas (Section 3.12, draft Guarantee Agreement).
Coordination
53.       A project unit would be set up within FONATUR to ensure proper
supervision of design and construction and to coordinate the other agencies
involved. A project manager and a chief engineer with a staff of technicians,
accountants, community development organizers, and procurement officers would
be stationed at each site. These arrangements have been successfully tested
in the case of other infrastructure projects implemented by FONATUR. To
facilitate coordination FONATUR is preparing a critical path chart for the
project. The chart will be promptly completed and reviewed by all parties
concerned every three months; the results of such reviews will be communicated
to the Bank (Section 3.08, draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
54.       Major civil works and equipment contracts would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding. While most of the building
materials required for the project are produced in Mexico, a large portion is
likely to be procured from the United States or Canada, because of the duty-
free status of Baja California. Some civil works and equipment contracts
(e.g. landscaping, environmental sanitation) would be too small to attract
foreign bids. It is therefore proposed that these civil works contracts, each
not to exceed US$500,000, and equipment contracts, each not to exceed
US$100,000, would be awarded after local competitive bidding; the total value
of such contracts would not exceed US$4 million equivalent. Likewise, a small
amount of civil works for wildlife conservation, gardening, landscaping, and
environmental sanitation will be procured through force account; the aggregate
cost of the civil works sC) procured will not exceed US$1 million. The navi-
gational aid equipment for the airports will have to be compatible with
equipment used in other Mexican airports, and therefore procurement of this
equipment, valued at US$700,000, would be negotiated directly with the manu-
facturer (Schedule 4, draft Loan Agreement). Telecommunications works will be
undertaken by TELMEX in accordance with its procurement practices but would



- 1 5 -
not be monitored. TELMEX, an efficient organization with sole responsibility
for telecommunications services in Mexico will purchase for the project areas
equipment compatible with system requirements in the rest of the country;
these will be bulk purchases not related to this or any particular project.
TELMEX will employ specialized contractors for carrying out the civil works.
Disbursements
55.       The proposed loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31,
1980. In order not to delay implementation of the project, it is proposed
that a part of final design and engineering expenditures incurred after
December 1, 1976, and not exceeding US$300,000 equivalent, be financed
retroactively. Disbursement of funds from the loan would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment and furniture or 100 percent of the ex factory
cost of locally manufactured equipment and furniture;
(b) 50 percent of total expenditures for civil works, consulting
services, community development activities, investment promotion
and project administration; and
(c) 100 percent of total expenditures for wildlife conservation and
market and economic studies.
No disbursements are envisaged for the telecommunications component. The
estimated schedule of disbursements of the loan is shown in Annex III.
Baja California Tourism
56.       With respect to foreign visitors, FONATUR market studies indicate
that the project resorts will be particularly appealling to the West and South
West US markets and will be in a good position to compete with Southern
California (U.S.) and Hawaii sites - Mexican visitors attracted to Baja
California will come mostly from Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey. As
a result of Baja California's relative proximity to the US, roughly 70 per-
cent of visitors to Loreto and San Jose del Cabo are expected to be foreigners,
a higher share than at other Mexican resorts. During the first year of oper-
ation (1980/81), when only 800 hotel and apartel rooms will be available,
FONATUR market studies project about 70,000 visitors, accounting for about
250,000 visitor-nights. These would increase to 800,000 visitors and 3.9
million visitor-nights by 1990 when about 6,200 rooms in hotel/apartels and
2,300 rooms in condominiums and villas will be available.
57.       Land access to the tourism areas is adequate; about one-third of
the visitors will arrive by road, using the recently completed 1700 km trans-
peninsula highway that connects the US border with the tip of Baja California.
Ferry services (some will soon begin operation) connect the project areas with
Guyamas, Mazatlan and Puerto Vallarta on the West Coast of Mexico.



- 16 -
58.       An important factor in the success of this operation is good air
access as about two-thirds of foreign visitors are expected to arrive by air.
Experience at other resorts, particularly in Acapulco, has demonstrated that
attracting large numbers of foreign tourists requires provision of direct
flights from major US markets. The airport at San Jose del Cabo is already
included in the bilateral air agreement with the U.S. and can be served by
both US and Mexican scheduled airlines from Los Angeles, Tucson, Phoenix,
Atlanta and Dallas. The Government will make its best efforts to include or
retain, as the case may be, Loreto and San Jose del Cabo in future bilateral
agreements on air transportation. Additionally, scheduled Mexican carriers
will serve both sites on domestic segments of their international routes to
and from major tourism generating countries so that scheduled international
air service can be provided by the time the first hotels open for business.
(Section 3.04, draft Guarantee Agreement).
Justification
59.       The loan will help FONATUR finance infrastructure investments and
one pilot hotel at each of the two tourist resorts, at a total cost of US$84
million; private investors will put up the other superstructure works--hotels,
apartels, condominia, villas, restaurants and other tourism facilities--
involving an estimated investment of about US$129 million; the economic analy-
sis has been conducted for the entire investment of US$213 million. About 53
percent of the total investments will be undertaken in Loreto and 47 percent
in San Jose del Cabo. The internal economic rate of return on the investments
in Loreto is 19 percent and in San Jose del Cabo 21 percent. The internal
economic rate of return for the whole operation is 20 percent. 36% of the
project's net financial benefits would be captured by the Government, 27% by
unskilled labor and the remainder would accrue to owners of hotels, shops,
restaurants and other facilities. The project would be justified even if only
1,900 rooms are in operation at each site by the end of 1987.
60.       The proposed project and related investments are expected to increase
Mexico's foreign exchange earnings substantially. Of the total tourism related
investment--public and private--in the project areas of US$213 million, about
US$158 million will be in foreign exchange. In 1982 the project's gross for-
eign exchange earnings will be US$34 million increasing to US$110 million in
1990. On a net basis, foreign exchange earnings will increase from US$17 mil-
lion in 1982 to US$89 million in 1990.
61.       The proposed project supports the Government's regional development
policy by inducing a rapid economic development in the southern part of Baja
California, a region with a tourism potential hitherto untapped because of
lack of adequate facilities.
62.       The direct employment created by the proposed facilities is estimated
at about 12,000 jobs. In addition, an estimated 13,000 jobs would be generated
in sectors such as handicrafts, food processing and transportation. Unskilled
labor would account for more than 60 percent of the jobs; some 40 percent of
the jobs is expected to be filled by women.
63.       The simple ratio of investment to direct permanent employment is
about US$18,000 (US$213 million:12,000) per job.    While this is in the range



- 17 -
usually experienced with this type of operation, it does not take into account
a large but not permanent increase in construction jobs. Over the life of the
project, some 158,000 man-years of direct employment would be generated (in-
cluding 15 percent of this total in ccnstruction). If both investment costs
and man-years are discounted at 10%, the investment cost per man year comes to
US$1,800.
Project Risks
64.       Taking into account the experience gained by FONATUR in promoting
newly developed resorts, the attractive location of the project sites and the
arrangements made to provide adequate and timely air access (see para. 58
above), the risks that there would be an inadequate number of rooms in
operation and/or insufficient tourist interest are considered relatively low.
Another normal risk of tourism development lies in the establishment of
enclave type resorts, which isolate the tourists and makes no provision for
the well being of the local population. The proposed operation, which aims at
integrating tourism and urban development in both the Loreto and San Jose del
Cabo areas, is well protected against this risk. Aside from increased employ-
ment and income, the local population will benefit from improved and expanded
infrastructure facilities such as parks, plazas and market places. Social
services will be provided including day-care centers for working mothers,
schools, health clinics and training centers. Finally, drawing on its expe-
rience in Cancun and Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa, FONATUR has assembled a community
development team to handle day-to-day problems and ease the transition from
rural settlements to modern urbanized centers. To minimize these and other
project risks, arrangements have been made to (i) promote timely hotel invest-
ments (see para. 45 above); (ii) ensure proper project execution by and
coordination between the agencies involved (see para. 53 above); and (iii)
complete property transfer proceedings early in the course of preparation (see
para. 40 above).
Environmental Considerations
65.       Special attention has been paid by FONATUR to protection of the
environment and no significant adverse environmental impact will result from
the project. Appropriate land use and zoning regulations will be adopted
by June 30, 1978 (Section 3.05, draft Guarantee Agreement). The project makes
provision for (i) water management studies; (ii) preservation of the rare sea
fauna and wildlife found in the area; and (iii) programs and studies for
conservation of the environment around Loreto and Puerto Escondido, including
the outer islands. The final recommendations of the wildlife conservation and
coastal zone water management studies will be discussed with the Bank for
effective implementation (Section 3.07, draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera
S.A. the draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a resolution approving the



- 18 -
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex IV.
67.       As a condition of loan effectiveness, the trust funds referred to in
para. 50 of this report will be established and NAFINSA, as trustee of FONATUR
will enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the
trustees of these trust funds, for purposes of the project.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 22, 1977



TOLN SA ~ ~ ~  ~   ~~I Ip
Mexico               SOCIA. INOICATIRS DAUT 1NIT
LAND AREA lTHOU KN21
-------- -NIxICO                                                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES 419010
TOTAL     1972.5                                   MOST RECENT.
AGRIC.     948.9                     1960      1970  ESTIMATE         BRAZIL        CHILE     SPAE7 "
GNP PER CAPITA IUSS)                 h200      710.0    I ".0              54Q.O     640.0      1560.0
_  __  __ -- _  _----  - -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLIONI         36.0      50.4      59.5             92.6        9.7        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                     18.0      26.0      30.0              11.0       13.0       6T.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO      35.0      52.0      63.0             49.0       60,.0      105.
VITAL STATISTICS
AVERAGE BIRTH RATE I/THOU)        4h6        43.0      42.0              30.4       32.9       Z1.0
AVERAGE DEATH RATE 4/THOU)         14.0      10.2       B.6              9.9        11.0       3.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOUI      74.0     66.5       52.0            110.0       79.0       27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS)     56.3      62.4      64.7              59.7       60.6       70.5
GACSS REPRCDUCTION RATE             3.2       3.1       3.0               2.b        2.2        1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                               3.1       3.4      3,3               2 9        2.4         1-
URBAN                               4.9       4.8       5.9               5.0        3.5        2.0
URBAN POPULATION It OF TOTAL)        50.7      58.7      62.Si             56.0       76.0       59.1
AGE STRUCtURE (PERCENTI
0 TO 14 YEARS                     44.2      46.2      46.3              42.0       39.0       27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                     52.1      50.1      50.3             55.0        56.3      62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                   3.1       3.7       3.4               3.0        4.7        9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.9       1.0       1.0               0.8       0.8         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.1       2.0       1.8 &             1.5        1.6        1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOPS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)         .       55.5     321.1             250.0      403.5
USERS IS OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..        ..      13.1               1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)      11300.0   13000.0   I6600.0           29600.0    2900.0     11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE II)       54.0      4s5.0     41.0              44.0       21.0       25.0
UNEMPLOYEO (I OF LABOR FORCEI          .         ..        ..                ..       4.1^        1.1
INCQME OISTRIBUTION
a OF PRIVATE INCOME RECD BY-
HIGHEST 5s OF HOUSEHOLDS           39.Z Ia   37.8       ..               35.0       31.0
HIGHEST 20 OF HOUSEHOLDS          62.5 7;   63.2        .               62.0       55.8
LOWEST  201 OF HOUSEHOLDS           4.4       4.2        .               3.0 a      4.8
LOWEST  40X OF HOUSEHOLDS          10.9      10.2        ..              10.0       13.0
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_ ---- -_ ---_---_-__  - - ___  --- _-  _ _
X OWNED BY TOP lOX OF OWNERS           .      37.1        ..              45.0
s OwNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS         ..      0.3         ..               1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1800.0    1480.0        ..            1910.0     2210.0      740.0 d
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2830.0 /b 162O.0 /                   3220.0 /b   5830.0        -
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         590.0 /a  960.0     830.0  '          260.0      270.0      220.0
PEP CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)      107.0     110.0     118.0             109.0      101.0      107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)            65.0      65.0      61.0              b4.0       71.0       81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       29.0  d   28.0 /      ..              39.0       32.0       40.0
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4          12.7       9.8       8.4                ..        3.9        0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     81.0     106.0     107.0 /d           87.0      103.0      131.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                  11.0       23.0      24.0 0            28.0       36.0       57.0
YEARS OF SCHCOLING PROVIDED'
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)           12.0      12.0      12.0              13.0       12.0       11.0
VOCATIoNAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONDARY)                   24.0      24.0        ,,              17.0       33.0       20.0
ADULT LITEPACY RATE (2)              62.0 A    76.0      78.D              68.0       90.0       94.0
HOUSING
_- -- -N                                        2.2
PERSONS PEP ROOM (AVERAGE)            2.6       2.2        ..               1.0        1.3
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (Xi                    76.0 L,   61.0         .              73.0 /     40.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(2 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 ..     59.0         .-             48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (2)                   ..      28.0        ..               8.0
CONSUMPTION
_ _ _ -----_-
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER TNOU POP)       95.0     276.0     311.0              60.0      143.0      214.0
PASSfNGER CARS IPER THoU POP)        14.0      21.0      31.0              25.0       11.0       71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAPI        313.0     567.0     707.0             491.0       04.0o    1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/TR PER CAP)             2.8       3,2       2.5               2.7        5.0        5.8
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON RVEfRSE



t  3               a O  5 ~~~~~~ a e v . S X ~~~~ a E c                           a 
]  l                bbe5] 3a~~ jgdi3  oRg;5iv z otwS  eaIL    Qa, _oI _       e
Q ^ ; e3i rl ge ei w!ll tW; a  g 8u S; .   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~1 j|* -w
;t  i ,l             !Bi!0XiiWi'',               M       .;          tt MOR.
{j <l 3 t j5z | o  W to 3 * 4-> Ft t  ba Z;Xe 
S -  1F i    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5b lo  i e  * i o e . 5 W s o. " O a o u i -  o c ,  7 e 7 XL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
| I.,  l          !:     ' i     ' i ,         1.  s   ',    ,{   |'        ;    |       ftL  s



011 P                . -   .                                            I.  .
a  000.00 .00.-or.  00000~~ .  .   .  .  o. ....o .0  0.0 O.  .  .o   . 1 00  0.0 .0.1
0  0..  C000  00    000           0000~~.  .  . 
. 0. . . . 0.. . 0 o. .                               .or.0 ...o..o  0...-.CC.
.   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   ...c.o
CC  0  CC..0or.C00  00010C  .0.00000  00.4  IOCO  0.000r.0  0a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0.-I  1.40  .~~~
r.C                                     . . .  . . . .               lll-*l .M . 0  .. ..  .0.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)
Actunl        Prelimina   Estimates             Projections
1970     .1974       1975      1976         1977      1978        1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including N.F.S.)             2,745.4  6,063.7    5,915.7   6,461.3      7,519.9   9,075.9    12.299.4
Imports (including N.F.S.)            -3,416.9  -7,763.6  -8,410.9  -7,716.2     -7,878.7  -9,011.6    11,177.2
Resource Balance                        -671.5 -1,699.9   -2,495.2  -1,254.9      -358.8      -64.4      -528.2
Interest (net)4/                        -301.3   -908.5   -1,246.7  -1,715.7     -2,251.6  -2,505.5    -2,708.9
Direct Investment Income                -267.5   -549.1     -657.5    -720.0       -700.0    -757.5      -900.9
Workers Remittances                      122.7    158.1      177.5     198.4        225.8     256.1       324.9
Current Transfers (net)                   55.3    113.4      154.8     164.7        177.6     194.0       231.5
Balance on Current Account            -1,062.3 -2,886.0   -4,067.1  -3,327.5     -2,906.8  -2,748.5    -2,525.2
Private Direct Investment                322.8    678.1      748.8     850.0        850.0     943.0     1,160,9
Public M and L.T. Loans
a. Disbursement (gross)                781.5   2,968.8   4,463.3    5,194.7     5,327.9    5,418.6    7,180.4
b. Repayments                         -474.7   -541.8     -808.9  -1,379.6     -2,302.7   -3,522.9   -5,307.0
c. Disbursements (net)                 306.8  2,427.0    3,653.4   5,057.1      3,025.2   1,895.7     1,873,4
Other Capital                            534.8   -182.2     -171.0  -1,670.6       -266.5      99.0      -253.2
a. Public short-term                    59.0    642.0      837.0     850.0       -300.0    -300.0      -300.0
b. Other Capital n.e.i.                475.8   -824.2   -1,008.0  -2,520.6         33.5     399,0        46.8
Change in Reserves (- = increase)       -102.1    -36.9     -165.1     333.0       -701.9    -189.2      -255.9
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
PUBLIC M AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                     146.8    289.0      350.0     390.0        -         -           -
IDA
Other Multilateral                       112.3    162.0      161.1     192.8        -         _
Governments                               81.0     129.1     120.0     151.9        -        _ _
Suppliers                                 69.7     57.4      200.0      300.0       -
Banks and Financial Institutions         434.4   2,145,0   3,364.2    4,071.1       -
Bonds                                    -         100.0     210.0      350.0       -
Total                                    844.1   2,822.5   4,405.3    5,455.9       -
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                               EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                                                             Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)                      3,226.9  8,003.1   11,657.5!' 15,472.6                          on Dec. 31. 1976 3/
Interest on Public Debt                  216.9    576.1      715.6    1,045.9
Repayment on Public Debt                 474.7    541.8      808.9    1,379.6                     $ Millions        Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                 224.3     332.4     531.1      669.7
Total Debt Service (net)                 915.9   1,450.3   2,055.6    3,095.2       Public M & L.T.
Burden on Export Earnings (%33) 2/                                                      Loans
a. Public Debt Service                  24.0      18.0      25.0       36.4
b. Total Debt Service                   31.8      23.3      33.7       46.4
c. Total Debt Service and Direct                                                  IBRD            1,185.0           7,7
Investment Income                   44.8      32.1      44.5       57.3       IDB               597.3            3.9
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                        Governmenta       820.2           5 3
a. Interest as % of prior years                                                   Suppliers         410.4           2.6
D.O. and D.                          7.4      10.3       6.1        6.7       donds           1,043.2           6.7
b   Amortization as % of prior                                                    Financial Insti-
years D.0. and D.                   16.3       9.7      10.1       11.8         tutions n.e,i.ll,416.5          73.8
IBRD Exposure
a. IBRD Debt 0. and D. as 7. of                                                  Total Public    15,472.6
Public Debt 0. and D.               18.0      12.2       9.0        7.6       M & L.T.Debt      _               _
b. IBRD Debt Service as % of
Public Debt Service                  7.8       8.4       7.6        3.8
IDA Exposure
-   Not applicable.
1/ Preliminary estimate based on Mexican data
2/ Includes worker remittances
3/ Source:   Most recent estimates.
4/ Includes interest on short term private and public debt.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
TIIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS   (as ot March 31, 1977)
U.S. $ Million
Loan                                                          Amount less
Number   Year              Borrower                Purpose    Cancellations   Undisbursed
28 loans fully disbursed                        1,286.7
793      1972     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Tourism             22.0         1.8
820      1972     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Ports               20.0         0.3
824      1972     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Industry            35.0         2.6
825      1972     Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Mexico & Nacional Finan-
ciera S.A.                  Railways             75.0         3.2
909      1973     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Water Supply        90.0        61.1
934      1973     Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas
Las Truchas S.A. and
Nacional Financiera S.A.     Steel               70.0         3.3
960      1974     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Roads               90.0        69.0
969      1974     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Irrigation          77.0        32.2
970      1974     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Irrigation          47.0        44.3
1022      1974     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Airports            25.0        17.2
1053      1974     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Integrated Rural
Development         50.0       47.7
1110      1975     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Integrated Rural
Development        110.0       78.6
1111      1975     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Irrigation         150.0       150.0
1112      1975     GUANOMEX & Nacional
Financiera S.A.                Industry            50.0        33.0
1186      1975     Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Publicos S.A.     Water Supply         40.0       39.7
1205      1976     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Industry            50.0        49.3
1217      1976     Nacional Financiera S.A.       Agricultural &
Livestock Credit   125.0       86.0
1232      1976     Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Mexico & Nacional Financiera
S.A.                           Railways           100.0       95.2
1308      1977     Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas
& Nacional Financiera S.A.     Steel               95.0       95.0
TOTAL                                           2,607.7      909.5
Of which has been repaid                          408.0
2.199.7
Total now outstanding          92.3
Amount sold                    56.9
of which has been repaid                           35.4
Total now held by Bank                          2.164.3
Total undisbursed                                             909.5
I/  The loan was terminated on April 15, 1977.   See p.7 in this Annex.



ANNEX IT
Page 2 of 7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTI1-5TS (as of March 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                                                 US$ Million
Year                Obligor                 Type of Business      Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59   Industrias Perfect Circle, S.A. 1/ Industrial Equipment   0.8    __      o.8
1958      Bristol de Mexico, S. A.  1        A/C Engine Overhaul    0.5            0.5
1961      Acero Solar, S. A. j               Twist Drills           0.3    --      0.3
1962/65/ Compafiia Fundidora Fierro y
66/68    Acero de Monterrey, S. A.          Steel                  2.3   21.4    23.7
1963      Tubos de Acero de Mexico, S.A.  J  Steel                  0.9    0.1     1.0
1963      Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/           Sodium Sulphate        0.8    --       o.8
1964/66   Industria del Hierro, S. A.        Construction Equipment  --    2.0      2.0
1970      Minera del Norte, S.  A.           Iron Ore Mining        1.5    --      1.5
1971      Celanese Mexicana, S. A.           Textiles              12.0    --      12.0
1972      Promotora de Papel Periodico,
S.A. de C.V.                       Pulp and Paper         2/     2/       2/
1973      Cemento Veracruz                   Cement                10.5     --     10.5
1974      Cancun Aristos Hotel               Tourism                1.0     0.2     1.2
1975      Mexinox, S. A.                     Steel                 12.0     2.9    14.9
Total Gross Commitments                                  42.6   26.6     69.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayment and Sales                                      15.4   22.1     37.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                        27.2    4.5     31.7
Total Undisbursed                                          3.0    0.5     3.5
1/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off, sold,
redeemed or repaid.
2/ US$25,000



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatanejo Tourism Project:    $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1977.
The airport opened more than a year ago and is being served by
domestic airlines from international points. It is expected to
be included in the next bilateral air agreement with the US.
In the tourist zone, two hotels are open for business (534
rooms) and several others are under construction. By June 1977
over 1,500 rooms are expected to be available.
Ln. No. 820    Ports Project:   $20 Million Loan of May 17, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: August 17, 1972. Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
The project is in its final stages of execution. Various
actions to insure proper operation, maintenance and user
charges are being discussed with the government.
Ln. No. 824     Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:   $35 Million Loan
of June 2, 1972; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1972.
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
All funds under this project have been committed and over
90 percent disbursed.
Ln. No. 825     Second Railway Project:  $75 Million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: August 17, 1972. Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Progress in implementation, procurement and disbursement is
satisfactory. Freight traffic during 1976 was maintained
at the level of 1975. Locomotive and freight car utilization
has improved largely because of the introduction of unit
through trains and improved communication and information
systems introduced during the past year. The financial
situation which had improved in 1975 deteriorated in 1976
due to increase in real costs and wages.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:   $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
All project components are either in operation, or about to be
completed. The Texcoco component has been delayed due to lack
of counterpart funds.
Ln. No. 934    Las Truchas Steel Project:   $70 Million Loan of
September 12, 1972; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1973.
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The plant was inaugurated in November 1976 and is operating
satisfactorily. About 94 percent of the loan has been
disbursed.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:   $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Substantial delays have been encountered in the initiation
of project works because of the shortage of budgetary allo-
cations. Substantial cost increases caused by price escala-
tion have also been encountered. The government has requested
a change in the scope of this operation and this request is
being analyzed.
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;   $77 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction is proceeding rapidly; irrigation service has been
started on 20,000 ha of the Las Animas unit in early 1977. In-
tensified manpower training, extension and farm-planning efforts
are needed to keep pace with construction, especially since
85 percent of the area is to be settled by ejidatarios under
collective farming systems. Cost inflation and some changes in
project design have resulted in an overall increase of 71
percent in the cost of this project.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:   $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of major project works remain behind the original
schedule. Total project costs have doubled over appraisal
estimates. Rephasing of the project is being examined by the
Government.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:   $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Because of budget constraints, some contract awards have been
rescheduled. The Airport Authority (ASA) has an adequate
financial position. The cost accounting system and the
financial policy study have been completed.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:    $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Although the quality of works has been satisfactory, first-
year goals have not been achieved due to inadequate budget
allocations. Counterpart funds for 1977 are adequate;
reprogramming of project activities is under preparation.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIPER I):    $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Progress is satisfactory. The government is continuing to
strengthen management at federal and state levels with PIDER
staff now operating at state level for each micro-region.
Monitoring and supervision of project works is receiving
increased attention. The new Institute for Rural Development
Evaluation (CIDER) is carrying out a number of interim
evaluations in project regions. PIDER has decentralized budget
disbursement to the regional level, which has expedited
implementation. Project investments are generally on schedule.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Balo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30,1975. Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The current and near term situation in the irrigation dis-
tricts is significantly different than foreseen at appraisal
in that the need to reduce water losses now appears to be
significantly less. The government is currently completing
a study to determine the appropriate scope for this project
which will be discussed with the Bank shortly. It is currently
anticipated that the revised project would cost around $120
million of which $50 million would be foreign exchange as
opposed to a cost estimate at-appraisal of US$386 million.
Pending completion of this study and project replanning, no
expenditures have been incurred.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:   $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Project execution has been delayed by difficulties in pro-
curement, by uncertainty among suppliers resulting from
the devaluation of the peso and by financial constraints
in Guanomex.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:    $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The agreements for subprojects in Mexicali have been signed
and it is expected that the agreements covering the Morelia
subproject will be signed soon. Initial delays in executing
the project and the change of administration have resulted
in a slippage of about six months.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:    $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
About 40 percent of the loan has been committed to industrial
subprojects.
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project:    $125 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976.
Closing Date: January 1, 1980.
Commitments under this project are running ahead of schedule.
Funds for medium-income producers and agro-industries are
expected to be fully committed by August 1977. The recently
formed National Rural Credit Bank has been declared eligible
for rediscount of-up to US$45 million under this project
thereby increasing the rate of commitment of funds to low-
income producers.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:   $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Execution of the project is satisfactory; the track rehab-
ilitation and telecommunications programs are on schedule.
Tenders have been called for the Bank-financed rails, components
for cars and track/workshop machinery but award of contracts has
been delayed due to the imposition of substantial budgetary cuts.
This will reduce purchases to be made during 1977, and force a
rescheduling during the following years.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln No. 1308    SICARTSA II Steel Expansion Project:    $95 Million Loan of
July 1, 1976.
The terminal date for effectiveness of the Bank loan for the second
stage project was originally October 5, 1976, and was postponed twice at the
Government's request, the second time to April 15, 1977. The Government which
took office in December 1976 has now informed the Bank that, following the
decision of August 31, 1976, to let the Mexican Peso find a new equilibrium
level, it has had to adopt measures which give greater priority to restoration
of financial stability. This has required a reconsideration of its investment
program, most particularly of activities on the point of being initiated. The
Government has decided to concentrate the bulk of its investment resources in
fields which have a rapid impact on output and foreign exchange earnings, such
as agriculture, petroleum and tourism. It also plans to carry out programs of
high social priority to improve health standards, attain higher levels of
employment and continue to decentralize economic activity. In the context of
this policy, and considering the magnitude and long gestation period of the
project, the new Administration had decided to postpone the project sine die.
In accordance with the Government's wishes, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
were allowed to terminate on April 15, 1977. Arrangements made with other
creditors to finance this project are also being terminated by the Government.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO - BAJA CALIFORNIA PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:          United Mexican States
Amount:            US$42 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable in 17 years, including three and a half years
grace with interest at 8.2 percent per annum
Description:         The project would consist of the following main elements:
1. For Loreto:
(a) infrastructure and other facilities (electric
power; telecommunications; roads; recreational
facilities; buildings and environmental sani-
tation) for the tourist zone at Nopolo, located
7.5 kms south of Loreto and a trailer park and
other facilities at nearby Puerto Escondido;
(b) a 250-room hotel to be located at Nopolo;
(c) infrastructure and other facilities (roads;
electric power; solid waste disposal and urban
renewal) for the existing town; and
(d) airport facilities.
2. For San Jose del Cabo:
(a) infrastructure and other facilities (similar
to those in Loreto) for the town as well as
the adjacent tourism zone;
(b) a 250-room hotel; and
(c) airport facilities.
3. Promotion, community development activities and
conservation programs for both areas.
4. Tourism sector market and economic studies.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
Estimated Cost:         The cost of the project is estimated at US$84.0 million
equivalent, with foreign exchange costs of US$42 mil-
lion. The breakdown of the estimated costs is as
follows:
US."" (I1lillion)              PercenL,tage-
IProject Items                  Loca        l'orchgn        Total      of ToLil
Cost
Tourism Arca of Loreto                3.8          6.9           10.7         1i.7
Civil works                       2.7           4.7           7.4
Equipment                         0 . 4         2.1           2.5
Consulting Ser"ices               0.7           0.1           0.8
Town of Loreto                       2.9           3.7           6.6          7.8
Civil w.orks                      2.4           3.0           5.4
E q u ip mi 1 t                   0.1           0.6           0.7
Consulting Services               0.4           0.1           0.5
TourismE Area and Town
of San Jose del Cabo                 4.2          5.3           9.5         11.3
Civil works                        3.2          3.2           6.4
E.quipment                        0.4           1.9           2.3
Consulting Services               0.6           0.2           0.8
Pilot Plote3s                         4.6          5.4          10.0         12.0
Airports                              4.2          5.3           9.5         11.4
Civil Works                       3.2           3.4           6.6
Equipment                         0.3           1.9           2.2
Conisultirng Services             0.7           0.0           0.7
Other iteins                         4.7           1.9           6.6           7.9
BaselinIe Cost                       24.4         28.5          52.9         63.0
Continenc,n.es                      11.1          13.5          24.6         29.2
Physical                          2.1           3.6           5.7
Price                             9.0           9.9          18.9
Land Acquisiti:ion                6.5           0.0           6.5          7.7
TO'A'Al, CCIST                   42.0          42.0          84.0        100.()



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Financing Plan:
US$ Million             %
Government             42.0              50.0
Bank                   42.0              50.0
84.0             100.0
Consultant Services:    Provision is made for consulting services to assist in
design and supervision work (1,075 man-months over a
3-1/2 year period, to cost about US$3.9 million
equivalent). The average cost of the consultants'
services is US$4,500 per man month for foreign consul-
tants and US$2,100 for local consultants.
Procurement:             1.  Major contracts for civil works and equipment would
awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2. Some civil works and equipment contracts for items
such as landscaping and environmental sanitation
would be too small to attract foreign bidders.
Such civil works contracts, each not exceeding
US$500,000, and equipment contracts, each not exceed-
ing US$100,000, would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding; the total value of these
contracts will not exceed US$4 million.
3.   Some minor civil works for gardening, landscaping,
environmental sanitation and wildlife conservation
will be undertaken by force account. The total
costs of these civil works shall not exceed US$1
million.
4. The navigational aid equipment for the airports,
valued at US$700,000, will be negotiated directly
with the manufacturer, to ensure compatibility
with equipment used at other Mexican airports.
5. The telecommunications component will be undertaken
by TELMEX in accordance with its procurement
practices.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Estimated
Disbursements:                          Disbursements
Disbursement during    (in US$000)
(civil year)      during quarter      Cumulative
1977                1,266            1,266
1978                9,209           10,475
1979               15,576           26,051
1980               15,949           42,000
Economic Rate of
Return:                20 percent
Completion Date:         December 31, 1980
Appraisal Report:        Report No. 1483-ME, dated April 18, 1977
Tourism Projects Department.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO - BAJA CALIFORNIA PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: About
2-1/2 years.
Date of technical, economic and financial feasibility
study: September 1976.
(b) Project prepared by FONATUR with the assistance of
SAHOP, CFE, TELMEX, SARH, and local consultants.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: December 1974.
First Bank mission to consider project: June 1975.
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: October 1976
(e) Completion of negotiations: April 8, 1977
(f) Planned effectiveness: June 1977
I.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
During the coming months, Bank staff will review:
(i) the progress made in bilateral air agreement
negotiations and proposed air service to be
provided at San Jose del Cabo and Loreto by
Mexican carriers (para. 58);
(ii) the establishment of the land trust funds in
Loreto and San Jose del Cabo (para. 50); and
(iii) the preparation by FONATUR of a statement of
its operating policies in respect of the
project (para. 50).
II.  Special Conditions
1.   During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on
the following:
(a) that the results of the wildlife conservation
and coastal zone water management studies will
be discussed with the Bank and that appropriate
actions will be taken to implement the study
recommendations (para. 65);



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
(b) that FONATUR will submit to the Bank for approval
its plans in respect of the location, financing,
and operation of the pilot hotels (para. 50);
(c) that the project areas will receive adequate
aviation, water supply, electric power, health,
education and telecommunications services
(para. 51);
(d) that FONATUR will, not later than June 30, 1978,
enter into contractual arrangements with TELMEX
for purposes of designing, installing and
operating the telecommunications facilities
(para. 51);
(e) that FONATUR will, not later than June 30, 1978,
enter into contractual arrangements with CFE for
purposes of (i) designing, installing and operating
the electric power supply facilities; and
(ii) operating the electric power distribution
facilities (para. 51);
(f) that land use and zoning regulations will be
drawn up and adopted not later than June 30,
1978 (para. 65);
(g) that the Government will satisfy adequately the
staff requirements of the hotels in the project
areas (para. 52);
(h) that final designs, plans, specifications and
regulations for the project will be submitted
to the Bank for approval (para. 49);
(i) that a critical path chart now under preparation
will be promptly completed, that it will be
reviewed by all parties concerned every three
months and that the results of such reviews will
be communicated to the Bank (para. 53);
(j) that the Government will: (i) have Mexican
scheduled airlines serve San Jose del Cabo
and Loreto on domestic segments of international
routes to and from major tourism generating
countries; and (ii) make its best efforts to
include or retain, as the case may be, San Jose
del Cabo and Loreto in future bilateral air
agreements (para. 58);



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
(k) that the Government will take all action necessary
to ensure: (i) construction and operation of .not
less than 150 rooms at each site, to be opened at
the same time as the hotels being financed under
the project; and (ii) construction and operation
of 600 additional rooms at each site to be
opened three years thereafter. The Government
will also make its best efforts to have in
operation 900 additional rooms at each site
seven years after the pilot hotels are completed
(para. 45);
(1) that FONATUR will prepare in consultation with
the Bank and adopt by June 30, 1978, a statement
of its operating policies in respect of the
project (para. 50);
(m)  that FONATUR will, through its community develop-
ment teams, assist migrant workers and the
poorer sections of the population by providing
land with infrastructure connections, technical
assistance and construction materials at cost
for building houses (para. 64);
(n) that the investment costs of the water supply and
sewerage facilities will be fully recovered through
sale price of land and user charges. User charges
will be set (i) to cover operation and maintenance
costs; and (ii) to finance increases in working
capital and minor extensions of these facilities
(para. 51); and
(o) that the trust funds which will be given title to
the ejidal land in the project areas will be
established and that NAFINSA, as trustee of
FONATUR, and the trustees of these trust funds
will enter into satisfactory contractual arrange-
ments for purposes of carrying out the project
-(condition of effectiveness, para. 50).



I            I           I           I            I       -  _
16o                     114-        -12                                  U NI rE D  STATES
U   N   I  T   E   D       S   T   A   T   E   S
\ Sos Dieso       MEXICAL.                                                               -
<            =  ~~!  )                                                 A      \    6      I   M e 0  0  ci o
32- AREA OF MAP
En<enodo         >        \                                        PA CIfIC
0110
F.h\  Q                                                   Th, h  d-, I Od,t   I  ,p
S~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .oty     ......... 
&loy                          ~< t | 0 20 40 B0 80 100                         200
-30-                s            (> \<           \    ~    l                      KILOMETERS                  30
\t   affi   <ve~~~. 1s  ~Gon.47 \ v t
PAC/ F C              ><        \   X   XA     EDE LAGUARDJ
RG.AIDALIJPE ISV                            \   4    \       .   
Q~~~~~                           ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~ \Ou<  T.EO \   EokBio Kmo 
C\ . v CX  \ ~~5AN LORENZO 
CEDR.S IS.   ,  |   <>   (5   \   O S
GUs,Vtn,             S     2E8-
-28-
0'.'  4 )  /   O  dXonRaRosolic   t \  t
~~~~\~~        LCIAR0ETONADO IS5  
MEXICO                                    PUERTO]'ar                              2-
-26'                                                               \SCONDIIl 4;RMEN IS|       
BAJA      CALIFORNIA     TOURISM       PROJECT                               6 -e0  SANTI CATALINA Is  
PROJECT LOCATIONS                                                               Eo/'IoboTopolo
0 SAJfA CRUZ IS
*     Project Locations                                              0 \               / "I
*     New International Airports
+     Existing International Airports
,,.,  Ports and  Ferry  Terminals                                              ' 0,E)PIRITU SANTO 15
X     State Capitals
- - -  Ferry Routes                                                                 A \k23N>    ,
Transpeninsular Highway                                           \                         \24-
-24-            Paved Roads
- - -  State Boundaries                                                            \         V,st.
---   International Boundaries             TAOPIC  OF CANCER                    Tnt
RELIEF IN METERS                                                          S 
_       2000 m                                                                               SAN JOSE
| mDEL CABO
lCOOm                                                                             cOo Luc.,os    C
200 m
LO,
Om                        114-                      112                      110-






MEXICO/
BAJA CALIFORNIA TOURISM PROJECT/j
LORETO   AREA   PLAN/
.1 /          ~~CORONADO
'SLA~~~~~~ILN
i ~~~~~~~~ ~~LORETO                       Resor Hotels
--:;New Residential
Secod Stage Espansio
Conservation and Nature Preserve
2  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~  ~   ~~                            0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Servces Industris
K                             0              1                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Parks and Recreation
A Sites and Servces
T - -Trile, Parks
55.         ~~~~0 Water S.pply Well Fields
(                                                                           E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71[  Sewage Osidation avd Lagoons
Ancrn ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  V ~~~~~~Esprop-ition                             Boundaries
'N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7~OO                                                           T-aspninsular Highway
/  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~BAH2.Road Networl, Pirst Stage
Contours, Interval 50 Meter
Watershed Bovcdares






IBRD 12650
P_  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~l94,MARCH 1977
MEXICO
- --  - - - - - - - -BAJA               CALIFORNIA TOURISM          PROJECT
\IX \'  .- - -- ~SAN JOSE DEL CABO AREA PLAN
' N                                         t               - New Residential
v/  7v'                   '- I.L...... l   \   J    |Resort Hotels cnd Aportels
0   Service Industrial
_   _N\  n     \S,,>t&At.          X                    X   Commercial
/    7             -.\A\  \\                       * \  . . Son Jose del Cabo (Exisring Town)
/           rt071~~~POIC1                             0   Villages
//sX        Ig \mvPAR,veGINR   &  \       \                   S Second Stage Development
715LOPE-~~                                        _________ 4,<L  Future Development
Conservation and Nature Preserves
1 \  v'issorp                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Farks
1/ \       \\\_____OPE       \                    Traler Park                   t
IE | REERENCE POINT\ \CK \ 3 z  |oAgriculture                                      El CaTdu-ii
AOR 90 NT         ~~~~zt-                       Beachses
' \   VOR PO  NT 'k\t   let  I /   |Project City Boundaries
t \   \i\9@\2jL\ 1Cn 5  l,nc   /            3   New Cemetery
\~   V\\       '/'/''1  I5) . (. ntgrmsTranspeninsulor Highway
Airport Property Line
Creeks
\~v----  *Contour Lines, 50 Meter Inter
\~~~~ 1                0\~ k8savo6                             Roads      Lo Lagvnru   5
-  -IE.  - - - /
20       .  .  .  A m7  eArtr      t 
30*~~~~~~~~~~~~~
cs~ ~                     -1-r                 '       /
23'                                                                  7 -'             2 3'5 -
-  0~~~~~~~~~~~~5
5PACIFIC    r'/, t(\                                              /
'P..
U. S. A.  200                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o6,,0, ' Ae 
---40 hVno04re  SAN JOt  ELCABO                       _"vii*P ietoioePpa 
11f5'      g   _  .~1         to Cobo Sue L.ua  \09-40                             ie&A,Ji  fA



