Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF GRANT NUMBER 21916-CH
Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement
(Ozone Protection Policy and
 Institutional Strengthening Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
Dated July 7, 1993
Page  2
OTF GRANT NUMBER 21916-CH
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT, acting as Trustee of grant funds provided by Parties to the 
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (the Protocol) 
into the Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank (the Resolution), established the Global 
Environment Facility, consisting of the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET), 
Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the OTF, to assist in the protection 
of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and 
sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) the Parties to the Protocol have established the Multilateral 
Fund (the Fund) for the implementation of the Protocol to operate under the 
authority of the said Parties to provide the financing of agreed incremental costs 
to enable the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the Protocol to 
comply with control measures provided for in the Protocol;
WHEREAS (C) the Executive Committee of the Fund and the Bank have 
entered into an agreement effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which the 
Executive Committee has agreed to provide funds to the OTF to be administered 
by the Bank as Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the said agreement 
and the Resolution;
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested assistance from the resources of the OTF in the financing of the Project, 
and the Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with 
the provisions of the Resolution; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend a grant (the OTF Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  3
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee 
except that, in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General 
Page  4
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant; and
(v)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the OTF Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Alternative Technology" means any non ozone depleting 
technology which is used as a substitute for ozone depleting technology;
(b)
"Basic Law" means the draft law for sustainable environmental 
development, attached to the Recipient’s letter to the Bank, dated September 30, 
1992;
(c)
"Beneficiary" means any private entity to which the Financial 
Agent, pursuant to the Financial Agreement (as hereinafter defined), proposes to 
make a Subgrant (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"CONAMA" means the Recipient’s National Commission of the 
Environment (
Comisión
Nacional
del
Medio
Ambiente
), established by the 
Recipient's Decree 544 of October 9, 1992 (including such commission or any 
successor institution as governed by the Basic Law if and when the Basic Law is 
enacted and comes into effect containing terms compatible with the Project);
(e)
"CS" means controlled substances under the Protocol;
(f)
"Financial Agent" means the financial institution, selected by the 
Borrower and approved by the Trustee, which will make Subgrants;
(g)
"Financial Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.03 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Ozone Team" means the unit, within CONAMA, referred to in 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
Page  5
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(j)
"Subproject" means a project in the refrigeration or foam industry 
sector involving the purchase of equipment which contains Alternative 
Technologies or the refitting of equipment to incorporate Alternative 
Technologies, to be carried out by a Beneficiary under the Recipient’s technology 
conversion program, utilizing the proceeds of the OTF Grant;
(k)
"Subgrant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Financial Agent to a Beneficiary for a Subproject under a Subgrant Agreement 
(as hereinafter defined), out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant; and
(l)
"Subgrant Agreements" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the OTF Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million two hundred six 
thousand dollars ($1,206,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the 
OTF Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of Chile on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment 
Page  6
under this Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the 
purpose of the Project from the Executive Committee referred to in WHEREAS 
clause (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) 
carry out Parts B, C, D and E of the Project; and (b) cause the Financial Agent, 
pursuant to the Financial Agreement, to carry out Part A of the Project, all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative 
and financial practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental 
factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient, through CONAMA, shall enter into an 
agreement with the Financial Agent, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank (the Financial Agreement), for purposes of governing the participation 
of the Financial Agent in the execution of Part A of the Project, such agreement to 
provide, inter alia, for: 
(i) 
the transfer to the Financial Agent of the funds required for 
the execution of Part A of the Project;
(ii) 
the obligation of the Financial Agent to:
(A) 
carry out such Part of the Project as provided in this 
Agreement; and
(B) 
maintain records and separate accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect 
of such Part of the Project, have them audited and 
furnish any other information concerning such 
records and accounts, as provided in Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement; and
Page  7
(iii)
the making of Subgrants pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under the Financial Agreement in such a manner as to: 
(i)
protect the interests of the Trustee and the Recipient; 
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and 
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Financial Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.04. The Trustee and the Recipient hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans 
and schedules, records and reports and maintenance) with respect to Part A of 
the Project shall be carried out by the Beneficiaries pursuant to the agreements 
(the Subgrant Agreements) to be entered into between the Financial Agent and 
the Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, which 
shall include those set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, through CONAMA:
(a)
approve the Subprojects in accordance with criteria satisfactory to 
the Trustee; and
(b)
monitor the performance of the Beneficiaries in the carrying out of 
the Subprojects, based on indicators satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part E of the Project, 
establish and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a unit 
within CONAMA (the Ozone Team) to be staffed with qualified persons 
acceptable to the Trustee and to function under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Trustee.
Section 3.07. The Recipient, shall, together with the Trustee, carry out, in 
the month of June of 1994, an in-depth review of the progress in the 
implementation of the Project and the attainment of its objectives, and shall 
Page  8
promptly take such remedial measures, satisfactory to the Trustee, as shall be 
recommended by the Trustee, as a result of such review for purposes of the 
attainment of the objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B, C, D and E of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying 
out such Parts of the Project; and (ii) cause the Financial Agent to maintain 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part 
A of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
OTF Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
Page  9
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the OTF Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
    (iii) enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Financial Agent shall 
have failed to comply with its obligations under the Financial Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the 
effectiveness of the OTF Grant Agreement, namely, that the Ozone Team has 
been established.
Section 6.02. The date October 7, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the OTF Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Page  10
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
  241334 MHDA-CH
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
Page  11
By /s/ Alejandro Foxley Rioseco
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Director Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category:
Amount of the
OTF Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Subgrants 
  448,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(2)
Salaries of 
191,000
100%
the Ozone
Team staff
and equipment
therefor
(3)
Consultants’ 105,000
100%
services, goods,
Page  12
office and equip-
ment rentals, and
publicity for the
training program
under Part D of
the Project
(4)
Consultants’
351,000
100%
services, goods
and publicity
for Part C of
the Project
(5)
Consultants’ 7,000
100%
services under
Part B of the
Project
(6)
Unallocated
104,000
TOTAL
1,206,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date 
of this Agreement; and (b) under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule unless: (i) the criteria referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement 
have been approved by the Trustee; and (ii) the Financial Agreement has been 
entered into by the parties thereto.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, if the Trustee shall 
have determined at any time that any payments from the OTF Grant Account 
were used for an expenditure not eligible for financing under this Schedule or 
used in any manner contrary to the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee, for deposit 
in the OTF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion 
thereof specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is the reduction in the use of CS in the territory 
Page  13
of the Recipient.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Provision of Subgrants to finance Subprojects.
Part B
:
A
program to develop and promote a seal to be affixed in final consumer 
products, indicating that no ozone depleting substances are present in such 
products and none were consumed during any part of the production process of 
such products (including their components).
Part C
:
1.
Development of a mass media campaign in order to raise awareness 
among the public about the health and environmental hazards posed by ozone 
depletion.
2.
Provision of bulletins to physicians, hospitals, schools and superior 
education centers containing information on preventive measures for minimizing 
damage from ultraviolet-b rays.
Part D
:
A
training program on mechanisms to shift from the use of ozone 
depleting technologies to Alternative Technologies, consisting of:
1.
three training courses in the flexible foam area to educate technicians in 
the handling and proper dosage use of non-ozone depleting substances;
2.
one technical advice seminar in the sterilant area for technicians and 
managers of public hospitals;
3.
one training course to instruct technicians on how to minimize solvent 
losses during metal cleaning operations; and
4.
one seminar to instruct technicians and operators in private firms on the 
maintenance and recycling of refrigeration units.
Page  14
Part E
:
Coordination, supervision and evaluation of the other Parts of the Project.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
1.
Except as provided in paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
2.
(a)
Goods for Part E of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$30,000 or less shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Trustee in May 1992 (the Guidelines), in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
(b)
Goods under the Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with 
commercial practices satisfactory to the Trustee.
3.
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are 
to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to 
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other 
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4. 
The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not apply to contracts on 
account of which withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
Page  15
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the 
Trustee in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval 
of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost 
less than $20,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review 
shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the 
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of 
a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank and to amendments of 
contracts raising the contract value to $20,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Subgrants
1.
The Financial Agreement shall include provisions to assure that:
(a)
each Subgrant shall be in an amount in dollars established on the 
basis of the ozone depleting potential weighted kilogram of CS saved over the 
reduction period, as approved by the Trustee. For purposes of this 
subparagraph, "reduction period" means either the expected useful lifetime of 
the equipment to be purchased or refitted under a Subproject or the remaining 
period of time until January 31, 2006, whichever is the shortest; and
(b)
the Subgrant shall only cover a portion of the equipment 
purchasing and/or refitting costs, as approved by the Trustee.
2.
Subgrants shall be provided on terms whereby the Financial Agent shall 
obtain, through the Subgrant Agreement, rights adequate to protect the interests 
of the Trustee, the Recipient and the Financial Agent, including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Subproject with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
managerial, environmental and ecological standards and to maintain adequate 
records;
Page  16
(b)
require that:
(i)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the OTF Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in furtherance of 
the objectives of the Project.
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Trustee or the 
Recipient, if the Trustee or the Recipient shall so request, such goods and plants 
included in the Subproject, the operation thereof and any relevant records and 
documents;
(d)
require that:
(i)
the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practices; and
(ii)
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance 
shall cover the hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity hereunder to be made payable in a currency 
freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such 
goods.
(e)
obtain all such information as the Trustee shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits derived from the Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under the Subgrant Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  17
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 to be withdrawn from the OTF Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the OTF Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Trustee the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the OTF Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Page  18
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Trustee from the OTF Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Trustee such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Trustee shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the OTF Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the OTF Grant allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the OTF Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Trustee: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, 
refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
Page  19
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the OTF Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
