CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1532 CR
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
Dated March 23, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1532 CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and INSTITUTO COSTARRTCENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the f1nancing of part of the cost of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has obtained from the Inter-American
Development Bank, and intends to obtain from other sources out-
side Costa Rica, additional assistance in the financing of the
foreign exchange cost of the Project, and to finance the other
expenditures of the Project out of its own resources;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "colones" and the sign "0" mean colones in the currency
of the Guarantor.
(b) "Prior Loan Agreements" means the Loan Agreement (Rfo
Macho Hydroelectric Project) dated February 3, 1961, the Loan


﻿-2-
Agreement (Power and Telecommunication Project) dated July 10,
1963, the Loan Agreement (Second Telecommunications Project) dated
July 10, 1969, the Loan Agreement (Third Power Project) dated
July 10, 1969, the Loan Agreement (Fourth Power Project) dated
February 24, 1972, the Loan Agreement (Third Telecommunications
Project) dated February 24, 1972, the Loan Agreement (Fourth
Telecommunications Project) dated June 14, 1974, and the Loan
Agreement (Fifth Power Project) dated June 16, 1975, all between
the Bank and the Borrower, as such agreements may be amended from
time to time.
(c) "Prior Guarantee Agreements" means the guarantee agree-
ments relating to the Prior Loan Agreements between the Guarantor
and the Bank, as said agreements may be amended from time to time.
(d) "Telecommunications Assets" means all telephone, tele-
graph, telex, data and television transmission installations
and related facilities and assets owned by the Borrower.
(e) "Telecommunications Debts" means debts owed to the
Borrower for the provision of telecommunications services and for
use of the Borrower's Telecommunications Assets.
(f) "Telecommunications Directorate" means the divisions or
subdivisions of the Borrower responsible for the management
and operation of the Telecommunications Assets.
(g) "Power Directorate" means the divisions or subdivisions
of the Eorrower responsible for the generation, transmission
and distribution of electricity.
(h) "Decree Law No. 449" means Decreto Ley No. 449 of
the Guarantor establishing the Borrower, dated April 8, 1949,
and shall include any amendments thereof in effect at the date
of this Loan Agreement.
(i) "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Guarantor
and of the Borrower, which starts on January 1 and ends on Decem-
ber 31.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-3-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ten million six hundred thousand dollars ($10,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time -by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and te be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of th, Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and telecommunications
practices.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents, and work and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than nine months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-5-
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.04. The,Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
anG rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction and operation of the facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
results of a comparative study concerning the alternative tech-
nologies to be employed in carrying out Part G of the Project,
and shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment
thereon before selecting the technology to be used.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.011 The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering standards.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
existence and right to carry on operations and shall, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not sell or otherwise dispose of any of its pro-
party or assets which shall be required for the efficient carrying
on of its business and undertaking, including the Project, unless
the Borrower shall first pay, or make adequate provisions satis-
factory to the Bank for payment of, all of the Loan which shall
then be outstanding and unpaid; provided, however, that the
Borrower may sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property
which shall have become obsolete, worn out or unnecessary for use
in its operations.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall continue to op@rate each of its Telecommunications
and Power Directorates separately, and shall for each of such
Directorate: (a) maintain separate records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower
and of each such Directorate; and (b) prepare separate financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) of the Borrower and of each such Directorate
in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices con-
sistently applied.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this
Agreement for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (,B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that


﻿-7-
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall not incur for the Telecommunications
Directorate any long-term debt, unless the net revenues of the
Telecommunications Directorate for the fiscal year next preceding
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
such incurrence, whichever shall have been the greater, shall
be not less taan 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements
for any succeeding fiscal year on all long-term indebtedness
incurred for the Telecommunications Directorate (including the
debt to be incurred). For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred, including any debt
represented by bonds;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under a
loan contract or agreement, on the date the loan
contract or agreement providing for such debt is
entered into, and (2) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee is entered into;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from
all sources adjusted to take account of telecom-
munication tariffs in effect at the time of the
calculation even though they were not in effect
during the twelve consecutive months to which such
revenues relate, less operating and administrative
e-penses, including provision for taxes, if any,
but before provision for depreciation and interest
and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund contributions, if any), interest and other
charges on debt; and


﻿- 8 -
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in colones
debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange
at which such other currency is obtainable by the
Borrower, at the time such valuation is made, for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such
other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate
of exchange that will be reasonably determined by
the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall not sell any bonds which are subject
to agreements committing the Borrower to repurchase such bonds
before their maturity date, if at the time or as a result thereof,
the aggregate principal amount of bonds subject to such repurchase
agreements then outstanding shall exceed an amount equal to
thirty per cent (30%) of the aggregate principal amount of all
bonds of the Borrower then outstanding.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall from time to time take all steps necessary or
desirable to obtain such adjustments in its telecommunication
tariffs as will provide sufficient revenues for the Telecommuni-
cations Directorate to produce an annual rate of return of not
less than twelve per cent (12%).
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating net income
for that year to the average of the net value of
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and end
of that year;
(ii) the term "net income" means all telecommunications
revenues, except dividend and interest income
from long-term investments, less all operating
expenses;
(iii) the term "operating expenses" includes: direct
costs of operation, administration, overhead and
adequate maintenance expenses; straight-line
depreciation based on the useful life of assets;
taxes (if any); but does not include interest and
other charges on debt; and


﻿-9-
(iv) the term "net value of fixed assets in operation"
means the gross value of fixed assats in operation
less the accumulated depreciation, all determined
in accordance with methods of valuation and revalu-
ation acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not (i) reduce its capital and reserves, (ii)
declare or pay any dividends, or make any other distribution of
its capital, or (iii) make any investment not directly related to
power or telecommunication services.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall have its fixed Telecommunications Assets revalued
annually in accordance with appropriate principles for telecom-
munications operations satisfactory to the Bank, and shall furnish
to the Bank a full report, prepared by the auditors referred to in
Section 5.02 (i), concerning each such revaluation.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) set its rates for the use of telephone and telex lines
by the Junta Nacional de Comunicaciones at levels which shall be
adequate to cover the cost of providing such services; and
(b) beginning fiscal year 1978, and at least annually
thereafter, allocate administrative costs between the Power and
Telecommunications Directorates, and further between construction
and operations in each Directorate, using methods of allocation
satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) A default shall occur in the performance of any covenant
or agreement, other than for the payment of monies, on the part of
the Borrower or the Guarantor under any of the Prior Loan Agree-
ments or any of the Prior Guarantee Agreements.


﻿- 10 -
(b) Any amendment, abrogation or waiver of any provision of
Decree Law No. 449 shall occur without the Bank having, in advance
thereof, notified the Guarantor and the Borrower of its concur-
rence therewith.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The foliowing event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Guarantor has made budgetary allocations suffi-
cient to pay, during fiscal year 1978, 65 per cent of all out-
standing Telecommunications Debts for which the date of billing
precedes the date of this Agreement and which are owed by the
Guarantor or by any subdivision thereof.
Section 7.02. The date September 19, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Instituto Costarricense
de Electricidad
Apartado 10032
San Jose
Costa Rica
Cable address:                    Telex:
ICE                               2140
San Jose
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the Distri7t
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Carribean
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
By /s/ Rodolfo Silva
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment for                 6,800,000    )
local telephone sys-                       )
tems, including equip-                     )
ment for subscriber                        )
and ju *nction networks,                   )
subscriber carrier                         )
systems, and sub-                          )
scriber installation                       )
(2) Transmission equip-             600,000    )
ment (including in-                        )
stallation and an-                         ) 100% of foreign
cillary services)                          ) expenditures or
for long-distance                          ) 95% of the ex-
systems                                    ) factory cost of
) locally pro-
(3) Transmission equip-             700,000    ) duced goods
ment and teleprinters                      )
(including installa-                       )
tion and ancillary                         )
services) for telex                        )
services                                   )
(4) Miscellaneous equip-                        )
ment for training,                         )
power, and air con-                        )
ditioning equipment                        )
(including installa-           600,000     )
tion and ancillary                         )
services)                                  )


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Unallocated                   1,900,000
TOTAL        10,600000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proc-eds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that


﻿- 14 -
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the               L
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is Stage V (1978-1981) of the Borrower's telecom-
munications development program and consists of the following
parts:
A.   Expansion of the telephone network capacity by approximately
65,000 exchange lines.
B.   Expansion of long distance facilities by provision of micro-
wave, PCM and carrier cable systems, and additional multiplex
equipment, to provide about 1,600 additional long distance
circuits in the national telecommunications network, of which
about 200 circuits will be on new routes.
C.   Installation of three new long distance exchanges and expan-
sion of the existing exchanges to provide about 1,900 new
terminations to accommodate the additional toll circuits.
D.   Expansion of the rural telephone system, including cor-
responding cable and radio links for connection with the
national network, to:
(i) about 500 rural communities, through public call office
service.
(ii) about 1,200 rural productive centers, through radio
systems served by an operator.
E.   Provision of public mobile telephone services to cover the
entire territory of the Guarantor and to connect 300 addi-
tional mobile stations.
F.   (i) Expansion of the telex exchange to provide services to
about 450 new telex subscribers.
(ii) Progressive connection of telegraph offices to the
existing telephone and gentex message services.
G.   Provision of additional circuits for international telecom-
munications traffic, through installation of either an
earth-satellite station or a submarine cable.


﻿- 16 -
H.   Improvement and expansion of the Borrower's training program.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1982
through   September 1, 1994                    410,000
On March 1, 1995                                     350,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.80%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                        6.55%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.45%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 6
Procuremeit
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding under the Project, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Manufacturers Established in the Territories of the Central
American Common Market
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods:
(a) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory
price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(b) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and
(c) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use of installation shall be included.


﻿- 20 -
2.   Bids shall be compared in accordance with the following
rules:
(a) the term "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted
by a manufacturer established in the territories of the Central
American Common Market for goods manufactured or processed to
a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Bank) in
such territories; any other bid will be deemed to be a "Non-
Central American Bid";
(b) the bid price under a Central American Bid will be the
sum of the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the site designated in the specifica-
tions; and
(c) for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American
Bid with any Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central
American Bid will be the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c. and f. (pirt of entry) price of such goods;
(ii) insurance costs to the port of entry;
(iii) half the amount of any taxes on the importation of
such goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers, or
15% of the amounts specified in (i) and (ii) above,
whichever shall be the lower; and
(iv) freight insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods from the port of entry to the site
designated in the specifications.
3.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the margin of
preference to be granted.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1*   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 21 -
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of thn Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish tr the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


