Document of             FLLE COIP
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3054-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 6, 1981
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00             =      CFAF 235 1/
CFAF 1,000          =      US$4.26
CFAF 1 million      =      US$4,255
ABBREVIATIONS
ACCF           Agence Centrafricaine des Communications Fluviales (Central
African River Transport Agency)
BADEA          Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique (Arab
Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
CAADE          Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement des Dettes de l'Etat (Autono-
mous Fund for the Amortization of National Debts)
CAR            Central African Republic
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (Central Fund for
Economic Cooperation) (France)
EDF            European Development Fund (European Economic Community)
FAC            Fonds d-Aide et de Cooperation (Aid and Cooperation Fund)
(France)
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
SOCADA         Societe Centrafricaine de Developpement Agricole (Central
African Agency for Agricultural Development)
CAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio
of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is presently floating.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Central African Republic
Amount:         SDR 3.3 million (US$4 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IDA terms
Project Objec-
tives and Des-
cription:      The major objective of the proposed project is to help improve
the country's absorptive capacity for financing of development
projects by external donors, and to stimulate private investment
in key sectors of the economy. The project would also help to
lay the basis for modest improvements in the organization of
some key Ministries which have particularly important roles to
play in the short-term rehabilitation of the economy.
The project would include the following main components:
(a) preparation of a road-rehabilitation program, and prepara-
tion and start-up of an integrated cotton/food-crop project;
(b) sector studies to review the organizational, financial, and
legal setups of the important diamond and forestry sectors;
(c) provision of resident technical advisors to assist in
the preparation and implementation of development projects,
and in monitoring the external debt; (d) vehicles and operating
expenses for the resident advisers; (e) an organizational
review of the civil service, with recommendations for modest,
short-term improvements; and (f) provision of funds for
further studies, training, consulting services, and related
needs to be identified during project implementation.
Benefits
and Risks      The proposed project would be expected to lead directly
to preparation of two major rehabilitation projects (one
in the highway sector and one in agriculture) suitable for
financing by several external donors. Recommendations from the
studies to be carried out on the diamond and forestry sectors
should also result in specific measures to promote new foreign
capital investments, and to re-activate production in those
sectors. The reviews would also help the Government improve
the fiscal regimes governing the sectors, and would suggest
ways to strengthen Government control and increase public
revenues from diamond and forestry operations.
The most important risk is one inherent in all technical-
assistance projects of this kind, namely, that expatriate
staff may not become fully integrated into the local system,
and that their relations with Central African personnel
may not be as effective as required to fully achieve the
objectives of the project. The other major risk is that
delays may occur both in the execution of the project and
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
in follow-up of the recommendations to be put forward. Appro-
priate steps have been taken to reduce this risk by (i) careful
pre-identification of technical-assistance personnel by the
Government in consultation with the Association, with special
attention given to the ability of the advisers to work effec-
tively in a similar environment; (ii) carrying out of detailed
preparation activities with financing from the Project Prepara-
tion Facility, and (iii) pre-identification of potential
external donors for investment follow-up.
Estimated Costs
- ------US$ million- - -----
Foreign     Local      Total
A.  Project preparation                    0.6         0.2         0.8 1/
B.  Sector studies                         0.2          -  2/      0.2
C.  Resident technical advisers            0.9         0.2         1.1
D.  Vehicles and operating expenses        0.1          -  2/,3/  0.1 4/
E.  Review of civil service                0.3         0.1         0.4
F. Further studies, training,
consultants  services, etc.         0.9         0.1         1.0
BASE COST                              3.0        0.6 3/      3.6
Price contingencies                    0.5         0.1        0.6
TOTAL COST                             3.5        0.7 3/      4.2
1/   Includes the refinancing of an advance of US$490,000 equivalent from the
Project Preparation Facility for the preparation of the road rehabilita-
tion program.
2/   Less than US$50,000 equivalent.
3/   Includes US$15,000 of taxes on imported vehicles procured locally
(all other project items are exempt from taxes).
4/   Includes $7,500 of physical contingencies.
Financing Plan
Foreign     Local      Total
IDA                          3.5         0.5        4.0
Government                    -          0.2        0.2
TOTAL                      3.5         0.7        4.2
Estimated Disbursements                         FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Annual                      1.2      1.4     1.0      0.4
Cumulative                  1.2     2.6      3.6      4.0
Economic Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: None prepared.
Map:                       IBRD 15646



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC FOR A TECHNICAL-ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Central African Republic (CAR) for the equivalent of
SDR 3.3 million (US$4 million) on standard IDA terms, to assist in financing a
technical-assistance project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, entitled "The Economy of the Central
African Republic" (Report No. AW 16-a), was distributed to the Board on
May 22, 1970. Since then, the Bank Group has monitored the economy with
several missions and with the help of the IMF. The findings of these mis-
sions have been integrated into this report.
Political Situation
3.        The present Government, headed by President David Dacko, was
formed at the end of 1979 when the Emperor Bokassa was overthrown in a
coup d'etat. The new Government has taken steps to return the CAR to
a democracy. A new constitution was adopted at the beginning of 1981,
presidential elections took place in March 1981, and elections for a national
assembly are scheduled for early June 1981.
Economic Potential and Constraints
4.        The CAR is a landlocked country of 626,000 km2 with a population
of 2.3 million 1/ growing at an annual rate of 2.5 percent. About 35 percent
of the inhabitants live in urban areas. With a 1978 per capita income of
US$270 (World Bank Atlas), the CAR is listed by the UN as one of the least-
developed countries of the world. The CAR is a member of the Central African
Customs and Economic Union (Union Douaniere et Economique de l'Afrique
Centrale--UDEAC), and together with Cameroon, the Congo, Gabon, and Chad, it
shares a common currency, the CFA franc, issued by a common central bank, the
Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale--BEAC).
5.        The CAR's economy is based on agriculture, which provides roughly
34 percent of GDP. Mining, manufacturing, and utilities account for 14
percent, and construction, transport, and services for 52 percent of GDP.
*         Although basically devoted to subsistence crops, the agricultural sector
also produces export crops, of which cotton and coffee are the most important.
Cotton and coffee exports combined have typically accounted for about 50
percent of the country's export earnings, but during the last three years,
their share declined to an annual average of about 35 percent because of
1/   This figure is the United Nations' most recent estimate for 1980 and will
be reflected in the 1981 World Bank Atlas. The 1980 World Bank Atlas
reports 1.9 million as the estimated population in mid-1978.



-2-
lower production and lower world market prices. The other major export
products are timber and diamonds. Sedimentary basins along the border
with Chad are being explored for possible oil resources. Tobacco, cocoa
and palm products contribute marginally to the CAR's export revenues.
6.        One of the principal constraints on developing the CAR's resource
potential are transport conditions and the small size of the domestic market.
The CAR-s economy is handicapped by high transport costs, and because the
country is located some 1,500 km from the nearest seaport (Pointe Noire,
in the Congo), it depends heavily on the efficient operation and adequate
maintenance of the domestic road network and of the international river-
and railway-transport system. The small size of the country's domestic
market makes it difficult to take advantage of economies of scale, with
the result that production costs and prices are high.
Past Performance
7.        In the 1960s, the Government pursued a development strategy which
left most economic activities to the private sector. Government efforts
focused on providing basic social services and on stimulating the production
of cotton to increase exports and provide cash incomes for the majority
of farmers. A successful cotton program (financed by the European Develop-
ment Fund--EDF) raised cotton production from 25,000 tons in 1965/66 to
65,000 tons in 1969/70. Investments in import-substitution manufacturing and
in forestry, increased diamond exports, and a well-functioning private
river-transport system led to a growth in GDP of about 4-5 percent a year
in real terms during the second half of the 1960s; both the state budget
and the balance of payments remained in a generally comfortable equilibrium
during that period.
8.        During the 1970s, drought affected the economy of the CAR, as it
did much of West and Central Africa. Moreover, international price upheavals
and the recession in the industrial countries added to the country's economic
difficulties. At the same time, domestic policy decisions and economic and
financial management did little to consolidate the modest gains of the 1960s.
In agriculture, hastily prepared and ill-conceived institutional reforms
resulted in the departure of expatriate technical assistants working in the
sector, and regional rural development offices were closed. The scarcity of
trained manpower seriously weakened agricultural agencies, and research came
to a standstill. Cotton yields fell and production declined throughout the
1970s to less than half the output at the beginning of the decade. Periodic
shortages of food and edible oils were experienced in urban centers, attribut-
able in part to flaws in Government marketing arrangements. Coffee production
suffered sharp downturns as foreign-owned plantations were nationalized,
commercial channels were weakened, and scarce labor tended to migrate to the
diamond fields. The expansion of manufacturing also slowed down as the public
enterprises that had replaced foreign private companies did not perform, while
new investments by domestic and foreign private firms fell off.
9.        During the first half of the seventies, accelerated development
of the country's forestry resources helped to compensate for the difficulties
in other economic sectors. Investment in new concessions proceeded at a fast



-3-
pace, and forestry production and exports escalated. Forestry development
in the CAR, however, came to a halt because of depressed demand between 1974
and 1976. This in turn affected the transport sector. The CAR-s river-trans-
port monopoly, the Central African River Transport Agency (Agence Centrafri-
caine des Communications Fluviales---ACCF), which had been set up following the
Congo's nationalization of the transequatorial transport system in 1969,
undertook an ambitious investment program to expand capacity in anticipation
of rising forestry production. Management problems and the heavier debt
burden added to the problems related to the downturn in forestry, and impeded
its ability to provide efficient services.
10.       A boom in coffee prices between 1975 and 1977, and the recovery
of forestry in 1977, resulted in two years of 4 percent annual GDP growth,
but in 1979 and 1980, the economy stagnated. In large part this was due to
the fact that foreign donors did not continue their previous level of support
as they were discouraged by the deteriorating performance of government
departments and parastatal enterprises.
The Budget
11.       Growing public finance problems originated to a large extent in
the budget. During the last three years of the decade, budgetary receipts
increased at an annual average rate of only 5 percent, while expenditures
rose at 11 percent. The result was a budget deficit which increased from
US$26 million in 1977 to almost US$43 million in 1980, or 42 percent of
revenues. Increasing budget support from France could not prevent a rapid
accumulation of arrears, which reached approximately US$55 million in 1980,
or about 58 percent of budgetary revenues. By then, erratic supply of essen-
tial materials crippled the administration, and the foreign debt service
remained unpaid.
12.       The large deficits were the result of bad performance in almost all
fields of budgetary policy. Wages and salaries in the civil service rose from
58 percent of current expenditures in 1975, to 67 percent of current expendi-
tures in 1980 mainly due to a sustained increase in the civil service;
unrestrained outlays for goods and services related, in part, to sumptuary
expenditures, added to the problem. On the revenue side, a general relaxation
in taxation discipline, a substantial rise in unrecorded imports, numerous
tax loopholes accorded to the private sector, the generous granting of import
franchises, and the rise in diamond smuggling, deprived the budget of revenues
estimated at about US$11 million a year.
13.       With the help of France and the IMF, President Dacko's Government
has tackled its financial difficulties on a broad front. A detailed finan-
cial program for a stand-by arrangement negotiated between the Central African
authorities and the IMF in January 1981 and approved by the IMF in April 1981
puts the main emphasis on reducing the budget deficit. On the expenditure
side, the Government is making efforts to reduce employment in the civil
service by encouraging early retirement and by phasing out unneeded employees.
Salary increases previously announced for 1981 have been cancelled, and the
salaries of top-echelon civil servants are to be reduced. Budgetary



-4-
outlays for gasoline consumption, and unnecessary materials and supplies are
to be cut by about US$7 million. On the revenue side, the most important
measures of the financial program are tax increases on gasoline in late 1980
and early 1981, and on beer consumption in 1981. Moreover, the Government is
planning to raise several direct taxes, introduce a tax on insurance premiums,
increase customs duties, and introduce various tax reform measures recommended
by the IMF tax report in 1977.  Finally, the control and collections of taxes
and customs duties will be strengthened. Total revenues are thus projected to
increase by US$26 million or 29 percent in 1981, compared with an average
growth rate of about 10 percent during the preceding three years. The finan-
cial program also places quarterly credit ceilings on the Government's net
recourse to bank financing, and it subjects all expenditures to prior authori-
zation in order to avoid extra-budgetary outlays. The Government has, in
addition, agreed to avoid all foreign borrowing with maturities of less than
12 years other than loans contracted to refinance the existing debt and
arrears. As a result of the above measures, the projected budget deficit,
excluding foreign grants, is expected to be reduced to US$26 million in 1981.
The budget deficit will be financed by exceptional foreign grants, by normal
statutory advances from the Central Bank, and by the use of the counterpart of
net drawings from the IMF.
Balance of Payments
14.       Since 1977, current-account deficits have exceeded net inflows of
concessionary medium- and long-term capital by large margins, creating a vast
external debt problem. In 1977, in spite of coffee exports twice as high in
value as those of 1976, the current-account balance deteriorated, as imports
rose by some 41 percent in current terms. This trend continued through 1980;
while imports practically doubled from 1976 to 1980, merchandise exports
increased only by some 22 percent. Since private transfers and services also
showed increasing deficits, the current-account deficit rose from US$40 million
in 1976 to US$163 million in 1980, or from 10 percent to 23 percent of GDP,
respectively. In 1977, Government increased commercial borrowing substan-
tially, and in 1979 and 1980 US$55 million in exceptional French aid was
received. Net capital inflows, however, remained insufficient to cover the
current deficits, and the overall balance-of-payments deficit more than
doubled, from US$11 million in 1978 to US$24 million in 1980. The overall
deficits were mainly financed by drawings on the IMF. At the end of 1980, the
CAR's net foreign assets stood at US$9 million, and its gross official reserves
amounted to US$65.4 million or about four weeks of imports.
15.       During the last three years, the IMF has provided the CAR with
balance-of-payments support. In 1978, the country received a US$7 million
Trust Fund loan, and in 1980, balance-of-payments support amounted to US$14.6
million (US$5.2 million First Credit Tranche, plus US$9.4 million Trust
Fund loan). In 1981, funds from the IMF are expected to amount to US$25
million (US$11.6 million from Compensatory Financing, and US$13.4 million
from the remaining First Credit Tranche, the Second Credit Tranche, and
part of the Third Credit Tranche). In addition, the country received SDR
allocations of US$2.2 million in 1979 and 1980, and roughly the same amount
is foreseen for 1981.



-5-
The External Debt
16.       In the second half of the 1970s, development assistance slowed
down, mainly because of CAR's bad record in servicing the external public
debt. In spite of substantial budgetary assistance from abroad, the public
sector has, on average, succeeded in servicing only 40 percent of its debt-
service obligations during recent years. When some donors stopped lending,
the Government resorted increasingly to commercial borrowing, which aggravated
its debt-service problem. At the end of 1980, outstanding arrears were
estimated at US$53 million, or around 25 percent of the outstanding debt
of approximately US$208 million. The country's scheduled debt-service
ratio has been estimated at 11 percent in 1980, but would amount to almost
50 percent if arrears were included.
17.       In 1981, the estimated public-debt service will amount to US$14
million. The financial program negotiated with the IMF provides for some
reduction of external arrears. A debt-relief program to be negotiated at a
meeting of the Paris Club in June 1981 is expected to result in a detailed
plan for further reduction of external arrears. Internally, the Government
took steps to improve the CAR's debt-servicing capacity by raising the rate
of the beer tax, the revenues from which are earmarked for debt payment.
Investment Plan
18.       In June 1980, the new Government organized a donors  conference at
which it presented a national rehabilitation and short-term economic develop-
ment plan. This Rehabilitation Program (Plan de Redressement, 1980/81)
emphasizes the development of the agricultural sector and the rehabilitation
of the road- and river-transport system, crucial for increasing exports and
reducing imports. Planned investments amount to US$72 million in 1981 and
US$96 million in 1982, or roughly 9 and 11 percent of GDP, respectively.
Investments in agriculture (40 percent), transport infrastructure (30 per-
cent), and industry (10 percent) represent the bulk of the program, the
remaining 20 percent being reserved for urban sanitation, education, and
health. Although modest in size and sound in content, the 1981/82 investment
program will probably be only partly realized since the bulk of the projects
will require further preparation, and only about 50 percent of the external
financing required has been acquired.
19.       Two large projects have been launched by the Government in the agri-
cultural sector. An integrated rural-development project in the cotton zone,
amounting to US$94 million, aims at restoring cotton production from its
present low level of 27,000 tons a year to 45,000 tons a year by 1984/85.
Through an integrated coffee-development project amounting to US$35 million,
coffee production would increase from its present level of less than 16,000
tons a year to 20,000 tons a year by 1984/85. These two projects would repre-
sent more than half of planned agricultural investment over the next five
years. Investments in new construction, upgrading, and maintenance of roads
and bridges would amount to US$36 million in 1981 and 1982. The Government has
demonstrated its commitment to road maintenance by reactivating the Road Fund,
the revenues of which come from the increased tax on gasoline (para. 13).



-6-
Public enterprises
20.       The very difficult situation of the public sector was the result not
only of budgetary problems but also of the performance of public enterprises,
which have incurred heavy operating deficits and debts which they are unable
to service. To tackle this set of issues, the Government has begun to convert
public enterprises into mixed enterprises, and has created a specialized unit
in the Ministry of Planning and Finance which will assist the parastatal
enterprises to adopt a strict accounting and reporting system. This unit is
currently carrying out a comprehensive survey of all payments arrears that are
owed by the Government to the enterprises, of the enterprises- overdue tax
liabilities, and of inter-enterprise debt. With the help of a concessional
loan of US$21 million from France, the Government is planning to liquidate the
remaining balance. As an additional step toward strengthening the financial
position of the public enterprises, the Government has decided to review the
prices of goods and services supplied by several of the enterprises.
Prospects
21.       After three years of stagnation, the economy can be expected to
grow at about 3 percent a year, a pace slightly higher than the demographic
growth. A mixture of measures already introduced or in execution will
contribute to this result. First, a revival of traditional exports will
result from Government's recent decision to bring producer prices closer
to world market prices, a policy which Government intends to pursue further
in the near future. Second, a well-directed investment program in agriculture
and road rehabilitation will stimulate exports in other sectors like forestry,
and will also facilitate the supply of imported intermediate and capital
goods needed for the country's reconstruction. Moreover, the Government's
encouraging attitude to the private sector, as well as the improved financial
climate, is expected to induce private investors to return to the CAR.
Third, during recent years, certain efforts have been made to improve insti-
tutions and economic"management. In several new mixed enterprises, private
partners are given management control. In order to overcome the serious
drawbacks of the overcentralization of agricultural services, the Government
has returned to a policy of decentralization, and created several autonomous
agencies to manage the integrated rural-development projects. On the other
hand, to strengthen financial management, the country's three stabilization
funds (for coffee, cotton, and foodcrops) were consolidated under one general
manager. The full impact of these changes will not be felt immediately,
but they have set the stage for further improvements in the years to come.
22.       In view of the country's poverty and extraordinary balance of pay-
ments and debt service problems, the CAR is not creditworthy for conventional
borrowing, and donors should extend their assistance on highly concessionai
terms. In addition, even assuming exceptional efforts to improve the public
finance performance, public savings net of debt service are likely to be
negative during the early 1980s. Therefore the Government's contributions to
public investments will remain modest for several years. If performance
continues to improve, however, foreign donors should be prepared to assist new
development projects, financing a high proportion of project costs.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CAR
23.       Bank Group commitments in the CAR amount to the equivalent of
US$35.8 million and cover three transportation projects, one education project,
and one livestock project. Two transportation projects have been completed.
A combined Project Completion Report for the two transportation projects,
dated July 23, 1976, concluded that a straightforward road-construction project
which did not require much Government participation could succeed rather well,
but that a maintenance project requiring substantial Government counterpart
funds and recurrent-cost financing for its implementation ran the risk of
encountering substantial problems and delays. The Credits for the third trans-
portation project and the education project have been almost fully disbursed,
and supplementary credits for the completion of the projects were approved by
the Executive Directors in November 1980. Both projects are now being imple-
mented satisfactorily. The Credit for the livestock project was declared
effective in July 1980 after some delays, but the project is now well underway.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of March 31, 1981, as
well as notes on the status of the ongoing projects.
24.       The level of IDA lending and the sectoral composition of the Bank
Group's lending program over the past 16 years were largely circumscribed by
the country's poor economic performance and limited absorptive capacity. The
new policies of the present Government are, however, more encouraging, and the
proposed technical-assistance project would help the Government to implement
them. Should the efforts of the new Government to improve its financial and
economic performance prove effective, the Association would be prepared to
consider financing a road-rehabilitation and maintenance program and an
agricultural project.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
25.       When President Dacko came to power in September 1979, his Govern-
ment was faced with a dismal state of affairs. After more than a decade
of irrational economic management, private investment had come to a stand-
still, the commercial agricultural sector had all but disappeared, the civil
service was in a state of disarray, the wages of civil servants were paid
only sporadically, and tax collection was hardly enforced. The country-s
economy as a whole was barely functioning, and the Government was bankrupt.
26.       The international community, led by France, moved rapidly to
help the new Government redress this situation. France provided budgetary
support and technical assistance, particularly to the Ministry of Finance
(including a comptroller of expenditures and senior staff for the Directorates
of Customs and Tax Collection), the Ministry of Transport, and the Ministry
of Education. Assistance to strengthen the Ministry of Planning was extended
by UNDP, the EDF, and France, and assistance to develop agriculture was
provided by several traditional donors, including UNDP, the EDF, France,
and the Federal Republic of Germany.



- 8 -
27.       One of the very first steps taken by the new Government, with the
assistance of foreign expertise, was to prepare the Rehabilitation Program
(paras. 18-19). At the donors meeting in Bangui in June 1980 (para. 18), the
program was presented to several external agencies, who praised it for its
realism and moderation, and particularly for the absence of the economically
unjustified prestige projects which had been proposed to the international
community by the previous regime and which had never found much support. The
donors did, however, also point out that few of the projects were sufficiently
well prepared to permit specific pledges to be made for their financing, and
that much preparatory work remained to be done before financial assistance
could be forthcoming.
28.       The main issue after the donors' conference was thus how to trans-
late the proposed Rehabilitation Program into well-prepared development proj-
ects. The problem was exacerbated by the weakness of the civil service, and by
the fact that donors who were normally willing to provide technical assistance
for project preparation found themselves unable to make such assistance avail-
able at this time, either because they had exhausted available resources, or
else because they had chosen to give priority to providing other forms of tech-
nical assistance to the CAR. The Government therefore turned to the World
Bank to seek its assistance in implementing the Rehabilitation Program.
29.       In response to the request from the Government, the Bank reviewed
the situation in the CAR in late 1980 with a view to preparing a technical-
assistance project. The major conclusions of the preparatory work, which
subsequently became the guiding principles for the proposed project, were
the following:
(i) assistance in project preparation and implementation was needed in
all sectors, yet in view of the disruption of the civil service, the
Government could not be expected to effectively coordinate and
utilize a large number of foreign technical advisers; furthermore,
in view of the bleak outlook for future availability of adequate
budgetary resources, it would be unwise to undertake projects and
investments in too many sectors at once;
(ii) the highest priority would have to be given to activities which
could rapidly attract foreign investments, and which would con-
tribute immediately to the rehabilitation of the economy and an
increase in Government revenues; and
(iii)  any support provided by the Bank Group should be carefully formulated
to complement other development assistance already provided or
committed.
30.       On the basis of these conclusions, and in order to supplement the
assistance of other donors (mentioned in the descriptions of the various
project components, paras. 34-45), the Government, in consultation with the
Association, selected the following areas for Bank Group assistance under the
proposed project:



-9-
(i) agriculture and transport projects, which together made up 70 per-
cent of the Rehabilitation Program;
(ii) forestry and diamonds, which used to contribute significantly to
Government revenues and to the country's foreign-exchange earnings,
but which have not done so in recent years because of illegal
exploitation and diminishing investments resulting from unattractive
fiscal regimes;
(iii) external debt monitoring, which was hardly done under the previous
regime, with the result that the Government had very little credibil-
ity vis-a-vis foreign donors; and
(iv) the civil service, which in its present severely disrupted state, is
generally considered to be the main obstacle to any sustained
economic recovery.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
31.       The proposed project was appraised in October 1980, and a post-
appraisal mission visited Bangui in December 1980. Negotiations were held in
Bangui between March 31 and April 2, 1981, and the Government's delegation was
led by the Minister of State charged with Planning and Finance. Key events and
special conditions are listed in Annex III. No Staff Appraisal Report has been
prepared.
Project Objectives
32.       The main objectives of the proposed project are: (i) to improve the
country's absorptive capacity for external-aid financing; (ii) to stimulate
private investments in key economic sectors; and (iii) to provide on-the-job
training and development of key local officials. The proposed project would
furthermore endeavor to lay the basis for modest improvements in the organiza-
tion of some Ministries which have particularly important roles to play in the
short-term rehabilitation of the economy.
Project Description
33.       The proposed project would consist of the following:
(a) Project Preparation and Start-up Activities: preparation of a
road-rehabilitation program, and preparation and start-up activi-
ties for an integrated cotton/food-crop project. The equivalent of
US$800,000 has been allocated to finance about 50 man-months of
consultants- services, some local-staff training, and other prepara-
tion activities to be identified during project implementation in
agreement with the Association.



- 10 -
(b)  Execution of Sector Studies:  two studies, one of the diamond
sector and the other of the forestry sector, would be carried
out with the primary aim of identifying and defining the sectors'
major problems, and presenting recommendations on how private
investment and production could be stimulated in the sector and
corresponding Government revenues increased. The equivalent of
US$200,000 has been reserved to finance 15 man-months of consul-
tants' services for these studies.  The detailed terms of reference
for the studies have been discussed and agreed with the Government.
(c)   Resident Technical Advisers:  four resident experts (at a total
cost of the equivalent of US$900,000), all recruited on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association, as follows:
(i) a Project Coordinator, for 36 months, 1/ expected to be
attached to the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation;
(ii)  a Legal Expert, for 24 months, 1/ attached to the Ministry
of Planning and International Cooperation;
(iii) an External-Debt Expert, for 12 months, attached to the
Ministry of the Economy and Finance; and
(iv)  an Agricultural Programs Coordinator, for 18 months,
attached to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
The duties of each of these are discussed below (paras. 36 and
39-43).
(d)  Organizational Review of the Civil Service:  36 man-months for
this task, at an estimated cost of the equivalent of US$400,U0O.
(e)  Further Studies, Training, Consultants' Services, Related Activi-
ties, etc., to be identified during project implementation. An
amount equivalent to US$1.0 million would be reserved for further
consultants' services, training, and other activities falling within
the objectives of the proposed project. Funds under this component
might only be drawn upon for activities or expenditures recommended
by the Project Coordinator and approved by the Association (Schedule
1, para. 3(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Preparation and Start-up Activities
34.       Road-Rehabilitation Program.  The CAR's road network is extremely
dilapidated and urgently needs rehabilitation. Several donors are already
1/   The contracts would be renewable from year to year, to allow the Govern-
ment and the Association to review the advisers' effectiveness after each
12 months in post.



- 11 -
helping the Government to improve some specific roads. Nevertheless, the
consensus of the Bangui donors meeting (paras. 18 and 27) was that a compre-
hensive road-rehabilitation and -maintenance program should be prepared
before additional funds would be committed to the sector. In view of the
urgency of improving the road network, France, in consultation with the
Association, immediately made funds available to start project preparation.
These funds were exhausted before the preparation work had been completed, so
the Association made available an advance of the equivalent of US$490,000 from
the PPF to continue the already ongoing activities. It is estimated that the
equivalent of US$600,000 (including the refinancing of the advance from the
PPF) is required to complete all preparation for the program, and the proposed
Credit would make this amount available. Specifically, this amount would
finance (i) the final technical and economic studies for the road-rehabilita-
tion and -maintenance program; (ii) the detailed engineering of a main access
road to Bangui; (iii) an analysis of the requirements for improving the Bangui-
M-Baiki road; and (iv) the preparation of bidding documents. The expatriate
specialists currently doing project preparation are working together with the
CAR government-s Director of Transportation (Ministry of Transportation) and
his staff. It is expected that several bilateral and multilateral donors may
be prepared to participate in financing the road program.
35.       Cotton/food-crop project.  The Rehabilitation Program envisages the
rehabilitation of cotton growing, thus integrating the pilot efforts being
undertaken by France, Germany, and the EDF, inter alia, into a comprehensive
development project. Several other potential donors have indicated their
support for the program, including the Association, IFAD, and BADEA. The
project is being prepared by SOCADA, a mixed enterprise responsible for inte-
grated agricultural development in the cotton zone. The two main problems
facing the proposed project are: (i) limited Government capacity to coordinate
the various donors- policies and inputs, and (ii) the lack of Government
expertise for project implementation.
36.       In order to better assess the institutional and policy questions
facing the cotton sector in the CAR, the Association and the Federal Republic
of Germany fielded a joint mission in November 1980. The mission's report
will be discussed in late May 1981 in Brussels at a meeting chaired by the EDF
of all donors planning to participate in the financing of the proposed project.
While SOCADA has the technical expertise required to complete most of the
project preparation work, the Government needs assistance to monitor SOCADA's
project preparation and other activities, to maintain the dialogue with the
donors, to recruit staff, and to commence training. The proposed technical-
assistance project provides for the services of an Agricultural Programs
Coordinator, who would work together with the CAR government's Director of
Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock) and his staff, and includes
an allocation of the equivalent of US$200,000 for additional assistance in
project preparation and for project start-up activities. Draft terms of
reference of the Coordinator will be finalized after consultations with the
other potential cofinanciers at the forthcoming donors meeting in Brussels.
As regards the start-up activities, they would only be defined during the
appraisal of the cotton/food-crop project, envisaged for mid-1982, and before
any disbursements were made under this category, the list would require the
approval of the Association (Schedule 1, para. 3(b) of the draft Development



- 12 -
Credit Agreement). However, since the Coordinator's role is most important
during the project s preparatory phase, he would be recruited and his services
would commence as soon as possible; it is planned that the contract would end
when financing for the proposed agricultural project becomes available.
Sector Studies
37.       The declining revenues from the diamond and forestry sectors appear
to be caused primarily by the Government's inability to monitor the sectors
and to enforce tax payments. This in turn had caused the previous Government
to increase taxes to the point where many foreign companies lost interest in
making further investments in the sectors.
38.       Under the proposed project, two studies would be undertaken which
would review taxation systems and production conditions in the two sectors,
but more generally, would study the entire organizational, financial, ana legal
framework within which they operate. The detailed terms of reference for the
studies have been discussed and agreed with the Government. It is estimated
that the study of the diamond sector would commence immediately after Credit
effectiveness with one diamond expert, who would undertake a one-month fact-
finding mission to the CAR. Based on his findings, terms of reference would
be drafted and agreed with the Government for a second phase,, which is tenta-
tively believed to require the services of experts in geology, diamond market-
ing, mining, and legislation. A total of eight man-months would be needed for
this second phase, which should provide specific guidance on means to improve
Government control of the sector, and recommend measures to stimulate the
investment climate and encourage systematic diamond prospecting. The expatri-
ate specialists would work together with the CAR government's Deputy Director
of Mines (Ministry of Energy, Mines, and Geology). The forestry study would
require about six man-months of consultants- services and would produce recom-
mendations on policies to strengthen the national forest service, and on appro-
priate fiscal and legal measures to encourage new investments in the sector.
The study would also identify the priority needs of the forestry sector, and
how the assistance of the Bank Group and other donors might be provided to
meet those needs. The expatriate specialists carrying out the forestry-sector
study would work together with the CAR government's Director of Water and
Forests (Ministry of Water, Forests, Hunting, Fishing, and Tourism).
Technical Advisers
39.       Project Coordinator.  The role of the coordinator would be to facili-
tate the implementation and follow-up of the various components of the proposed
project. In addition, he would function as an economic adviser to the Minister
of Planning and International Cooperation, particularly with regard to: (i)
project selection and preparation, including recommending studies or other
activities to be financed from the unallocated category of the proposed
Credit; (ii) determination of economic viability and recurrent-cost effects of
project proposals; and (iii) budgetary and debt-service consequences of
proposed external borrowing. Draft terms of reference have been discussed and
agreed with the Government. The project would finance this post for 36 months.



- 13 -
40.       Legal Expert.  Although the CAR produces a large number of law gradu-
ates from the University of Bangui, the country lacks lawyers with practical
experience in almost all fields of law. At present, this gap constitutes a
serious constraint both as regards the negotiation, ratification, and implemen-
tation of projects financed by foreign donors, and as regards negotiations
with present and potential investors in the private sector. It is thus proposed
to provide the services of a resident legal expert for 24 months who would:
(i) assist the Division Chief for Technical Cooperation in negotiating with
foreign financiers and strengthening the cai:acity of the Ministry of Planning
and International Cooperation's Directorate of Cooperation, so that it might
deal more adequately with foreign financial agencies; (ii) assist the
Deputy Director of Mines and the Director of Water and Forests, respectively,
in reviewing the investment codes for the diamond and forestry sectors, and,
building on the earlier-described sector studies (paras. 37-38), in reviewing
existing concession agreements, and in negotiating concession agreements with
investors in the diamond and forestry sectors and with other private enter-
prises seeking to establish themselves in the CAR. Draft terms of reference
have been discussed and agreed with the Government.
41.       External-Debt Expert.  The ability of the Government to mobilize
foreign concessional financing will to a large extent depend on whether
or not it manages to restore some order into the servicing of the external
debt (paras. 16-17). The Government agency which is responsible for moni-
toring, managing, and servicing the CAR's external debt is called the Autono-
mous Fund for the Amortization of National Debts (Caisse Autonome d'Amortisse-
ment des Dettes de l'Etat--CAADE). The CAADE lacks even the most basic
resources for keeping records up to date. In addition, its funding is inade-
quate to service the debt. The Government has taken steps to increase the
CAADE's revenues by increasing the tax on beer, and expects to renegotiate
its external debt under the auspices of the Paris Club (para. 17). The
Association and the IMF have assisted the Government in preparing a prelimi-
nary inventory of the debt, but continuous assistance is required if national
personnel are to become capable of systematically collecting debt information,
recording and reporting the debt, and doing the necessary processing to
service it. It is therefore proposed under the project to provide a resident
expert to the CAADE who would help to set up an adequate reporting system
involving all concerned Ministries, and to train local staff to organize,
record, and maintain external-debt information. In particular, the expert
would work together with the CAADE's division chief for external debt, the
chief of the accounting section, and the keeper of records. Draft terms of
reference have been discussed and agreed with the Government.
42.       Improved record-keeping would, however, still not enable the CAADE
to fully manage the external debt. Such a task could require additional
assistance aimed at strengthening the CAADE's capacity to assess proposed
international borrowings and their impact on the country's debt-service
obligations. Additional consultants' services could be supplied as needed
under the proposed project, to be financed out of the currently unallocated
amount of $1.0 million equivalent reserved for such needs. The specific
services to be supplied would be defined during forthcoming economic missions
to the CAR.



- 14 -
43.       Agricultural Programs Coordinator.  This expert would be attached
to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock with the responsibility of
coordinating the cotton/food-crop program described above (para. 36).
Organizational Review of the Civil Service
44.       The civil service of the CAR is a source of serious concern to the
Government as well as to foreign donors endeavoring to assist the economic
reconstruction efforts. In the first place, the country's estimated 18,000
civil servants constitute almost half of estimated wage employment, and
their total wage bill is estimated at CFAF 21.3 billion or over 70 percent
of projected budgetary expenditures for 1981. In the second place, the
civil service is ineffective, since it is badly organized and rather dis-
couraged after many years of being mismanaged. France is providing assis-
tance to the public-enterprise sector in an attempt to reduce the number of
enterprises and their size, and make their management more effective. In
public administration per se, France has limited its role to helping the
Government (i) determine the exact number and distribution of civil servants
in the various Government services, and (ii) identify ways of rationalizing
this distribution and possibly also of reducing the total number of civil
servants (para. 13). The Government would, however, welcome additional
assistance to improve the management of some Ministries.
45.       At the urging of the Government, the Association sent a consultant
to the CAR in December 1980 to make a first survey of the state of the civil
service, and to prepare terms of reference for further studies. The consul-
tant-s main conclusion was that the problems facing the civil service were
indeed extremely serious, and that it would take a very long and sustained
effort to bring about marked improvements. Nevertheless, the consultant
suggested that some immediate efforts could be attempted, and he outlined two
studies, one to streamline procedures in four key governmental units, the
other to lay the basis for longer-term improvements in the management of the
public sector. It is proposed to finance the two interrelated studies under
the proposed technical-assistance project, to be carried out in cooperation
with the CAR government's Director-General of Public Administration (Ministry
of Public Administration, Labor, and Social Security). The two studies
would be the following:
(i) An organizational review of: (a) the Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation, (b) the Directorate of Budgeting
(Ministry of the Economy and Finance), (c) the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock, and (d) the Ministry of Transport.
These four units were selected since they are of key importance
to the implementation of the Rehabilitation Program.  The
recommendations of the study, which would require some 24
man-months of consultants services, would focus on relatively
simple methods for introducing some element of orderliness into
day-to-day activities.



- 15 -
(ii) Preparation of more general guidelines. The analysis of the
four key units discussed above would be expected to provide a
model for tackling the problems facing other departments and
Ministries, and would constitute the first phase in the elabora-
tion of new standards for the civil service as a whole. This
second study would essentially focus on the institutional
changes required to strengthen management of the civil service,
and would produce a set of decrees setting up a new civil-service
structure and a manual of personlel procedures for management
and budgeting. This second study would require an estimated 12
man-months of consultants services.
Project Implementation
46.       The proposed project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.
Overall coordination, including the preparation 3f withdrawal applications and
progress reports, would rest with the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation, to which the Project Coordinator and the legal expert would be
attached. Other project components would be overseen by the respective
technical Ministry, i.e.: (i) preparation of the road-rehabilitation program
by the Ministry of Transportation; (ii) preparation and start-up of the
cotton/food-crop project and recruitment of an Agricultural Programs Coo:di-
nator by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock; (iii) carrying out of the
forestry-sector study by the Ministry of Water, Forests, Hunting, Fishing, and
Tourism; (iv) carrying out of the diamond-sector study by the Ministry of
Energy, Mines, and Geology; (v) public-administration studies by the Ministry
of Public Administration, Labor, and Social Security; and (vi) assistance to
the CAADE by the Ministry of the Economy and Finance.
Cost Estimates
47.       The total cost of the project has been estimated at US$4.2 million
equivalent, including US$15,000 equivalent of taxes (on imported vehicles
procured locally; all other project items would be tax exempt). The local-
cost component is estimated at US$0.7 million equivalent. In calculating these
costs, it has been assumed that, although the actual cost of any given expert
or consultant would depend on the level of expertise required and the method
of recruitment, the average cost per man-month would be about US$10,000 equiv-
alent including travel, housing, agency overheads, etc. In particular, the
short-term experts (such as those hired to carry out the diamond- and forestry-
sector studies) are expected to cost US$12,000-$15,000 equivalent per man-month,
whereas the longer-term experts (including the resident experts) are expected
to cost US$8,000-$12,000 equivalent per man-month (the experts recruited for
the public-administration survey are expected to cost US$10,000-$12,000 equiv-
alent per man-month). The costs of expertise currently being employed to
prepare the road-rehabilitation program with an advance from the Project
Preparation Facility range from US$7,000 equivalent per man-month to US$15,000
equivalent per man-month. Physical contingencies of 10 percenit have been
provided for vehicles and operating expenses. Price contingencies have been
calculated at 10 percent per year. (Local rates of inflation are expected to
be slightly higher; foreign rates are expected to be slightly lower.)



- 16 -
Financing Plan
48.       The total project cost of US$4.2 million equivalent would be financed
by an IDA Credit of SDR 3.3 million (US$4.0 million equivalent), representing
95 percent of the total project cost net of taxes. The proposed Credit would
cover all foreign-exchange costs of the project (IJS$3.5 million equivalent or
83 percent of total project cost), and about 71 percent of local costs. In
view of the Government's extremely precarious financial situation, this level
of financing is considered appropriate. Furthermore, the Government's contri-
bution to the project would be mainly in kind and personnel: the provision of
office space, support staff, counterparts, and office supplies, which together
have been costed at US$0.2 million equivalent. A detailed list of counterparts,
support staff, and office supplies has been drawn up in consultation with the
Government, which has agreed to supply the personnel and items as needed
(Section 3.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
49.       All technical assistants and consultants would be recruited on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section 3.02 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Vehicles purchased under the project for
the use of the resident technical advisers would be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Association (Section 2.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Disbursements would be on the basis of 100 percent of expendi-
tures for (a) technical'assistants- and consultants' services, (b) project
start-up activities, (c) additional services, studies, training, and related
expenses, and (d) the repayment of the advance from the Project Preparation
Facility, and 80 percent of expenditures for vehicles and operating expenses.
Disbursements would be fully documented.
Benefits and Risks
50.       The proposed project would directly contribute to major investments
in agriculture and road rehabilitation and maintenance. The project would
furthermore help generate additional Government revenues from the diamond and
forestry sectors, and it would possibly attract new investment funds to these
sectors. In addition, the project would lay the basis for improved management
of the public sector, especially of key departments which have particularly
important roles to play in the short-term rehabilitation of the economy.
51.       The most important project risk is one inherent in all technical-
assistance projects of this kind, namely, that expatriate staff may not become
fully integrated into the local system, and that their relations with Central
African personnel may not be as effective as required to fully achieve the
objectives of the project. One other major risk is that delays in project
implementation may occur, due to the late recruitment of expatriate staff or
consultants, or to the lack of Government counterpart contributions and per-
sonnel. In order to minimize these risks, the Association has helped the
Government to pre-identify two of the four resident experts to be provided
(the legal expert and the external-debt expert). Priority will be given



- 17-
to selecting experts who have previous experience in West Africa. The Asso-
ciation extended an advance from the PPF to prepare the road program, and
appraisal of the project was scheduled to begin in early May 1981. As regards
the Government's inability to provide funds, the proposed Credit would provide
100-percent financing of all direct costs related to the employment of resi-
dent and short-term experts. Finally, with regard to the possible lack of
counterparts, the list of counterparts reqtired for all project components has
been carefully drawn up (para. 48), and the various government officials who
are to work together with the expatriate specialists have been specifically
identified (by title). A further project risk could be unwillingness on the
part of the Government to follow up on the recommendations arising from the
proposed studies of the diamond and forestry sectors and of the civil service.
To minimize this risk, the Government has agreed to furnish the recommenda-
tions of these studies to the Association within two months after their com-
pletion, and to exchange views with the Association on appropriate follow-up
measures (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITI
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Central African
Republic and the Association, as well as the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
May 6, 1981



-18 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.-)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            623.0
AGRICULTURAL      60. 1                               MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 110.0       150.0    290.0                  260.0                   868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      37.0        63.0      44.0                 80.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      1.3         1.6       1.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.7        31.1      38.9                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         8.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2165
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EM.                        2. 0        2.5       3.0                 27.4                     61. 7
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND     22.0        27.0      32.0                 82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         38.0        42.1      40.5                 44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                         58.0        54.8      55.6                 52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.0         3. 1      3.9                  2.8                     2. 8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.4         2.2       2.2                  2. 7                     2.7
URBAN                              7. 9        5.3       5. 1                 6.8                      4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    42.0         41.0      42.0                 47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     26.0        22.0      19.0                 19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.5         2.9       2.8                  3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.0       100.0     103.0                 91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   96.0        98.0      99.0                 90. 2                    92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          42.0        44.0      46.0                 53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       11.0        12.0      12.0                  18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     40.0        32.0      27.0                 27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0        42.0      46.0                 45.3                     50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          190. O0C       ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      16.0                 23.2                     31.0
GRBAN                               ..          ..      40.0                 58.0                     66.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.0                  16.8                      -
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        72.0        ..                  28.9
URBAN                               ..        64.0        ..                 67. 0
RURAL                               ..        96.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         35595.0     38119.0   17613.0              30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2755.0      1384.0    1556.0               5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            675.0       460.0     626.0               1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                            420.0       512.0        ..                   ..                      ..
RURAL                            831.0       411.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        21.6
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.9          ..
URHAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              3.4          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RIIRL                               ..          ..



-19-                                            ANNEX I
pag,~    ' ot
Page 2
TABLE 3A
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOSr RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTEE ENROELMENT RATIOS
PRDIARY:     TOTAL                 32.0         69.0      81.0                   57.7                     61. 7
MALE                  53.0        95.0      106.0                  74.2                      69.2
FEMALE                12.0        44.0       57.0                  54,. 1                   51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0         5.0        9.0                  10.0                     20.6
!'LE                  72.0          7.0     1J.0                   13.7                     29.7
FEMALE                 0.3         '. t        .- (. 1                                       14.
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  10.0          12.0        9.0                   5.8                      ,.J
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            58.0         63.0      67.0                   45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                          25.0         22.0         ..                  25. 2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         7. O/d        ..         ..                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          4. 0      5.2                    3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.0         29.0      41.0                   31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..     .      .       0. 1                   1. 8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATIONl                  0.4          0.3         *                    4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAI ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3           0. 3        ..                    ..                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       778.4        924.0    1053.8
FE14ALE (PERCENT)                  51.2         50.0      48.0                  33.5                      38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              94.1         91.3       89.0                  80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  1.8          2.5       3.0                    8. 1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.5        55.8       54.9                  42.2                     38.8
MALE                                  59.5        58.5       57.9                  55. 1                    48.4
FIMALE                               55.7         53.4       52.2                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0. 8        0. 8       0. 8                  1. 2                     1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 138.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      49.0                   86.1
ESTIMATED REIATIVE POVERTY INCOS4E
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 107.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       91.0                  65.0
9                         EESTIDAIED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 .           .
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                  66. 9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless ot5erwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   African population only, excluding 15X of population not covered by survey;  /d 1962.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 20-..ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
fhfi~l JITItOS_h    SW IdA L fINl I '--o'.hI
N.otee,  Alohouglo the, d-c   a- ooo        norr    -oorltodgaol  0c -tbetade  ndrlibe.htooad.lo  ooc.0ta..te.syne .b..cr
natt Locoeaal   oa-tt   obt                                               --nrdroo   e Ibln   n   ocpts used ho diffret  --utrlc  cc coil-oeto  theda.  Thedtaael,no-
theles.-   er-    . ltel,oruy              01no  at. dl!a-e oode .    dcaatte   tol   oo   crcte
Theeearceoteac  (Iao   aeucot   ru   f chl oah rlt -otnt-  nod (2) a ou-ytly 9crcoui lensaa   ihrcotg   noeta  the oeunty group
at the aujac_ ooroIocp   too  oaylta  han             I a                -l po ptr'  rhcher  "Mide InoeNrhAtlaad fldl  tea0  it oh.s  beas   f srne
notlr-clocral  l Ilsiteut    to  hc  aectca   daootrrtuta   yaueion Ie iherd                         i .r.t.tnen -for eoh cod i-ta- end  h.-t-oe    h. ole ena
lesehalfof the I0..0cri itt  It           leop  a  data foe that  lodcer    door- the oc-e-af  oh otsI      aog  b  inictrsdpends  Io the a-nlbt ily nO
daaan-     nco-n-cn  cato  os   eaeoae    nreaIg ao--gea of one I~lodic-  to another.  Thes.a..                          ga  r  ony aefu    e paing the raise
LAND5 ARIA floeo  aql.tu.t                                                                 foue coe-lhsce-cpuain  uie   by nse   apatcn   phy-
Total  . loa  safece area cuslpootig Ibod arac aca ilondiaae.aician  qua1if led Ieos a mdical -h-bc ela  anl--rlty level.
tor crps. yncures  nartt  od  ltc"e  i.d. oo  s   I  lalos  l ll aa             sale, and tesl aadat  coret  ycll o                  lyea  -sd assistant esrase.
GNP PtR CAPITA (IhIl - CNP ptoalaotloe  at c-roen  arket petuen.  al1-                     -aolsantt  sete  ted -lnotl. ubn  nedn enel - Pepalaties Itanal.
cs,tlae   by  .as .con..rniomrtlhod 00 Way1o b-o  Atlstll-f(977 0Wbanca t 1960.            ocher, and rr    diotded by ebeilr etpentn. easber ef beepiea1 beds
1910, and  1011 data.                                               a~~~~~~~~vaIlable In pabllo ian  petoat  geesel1 nod specialned hapitta1 nd ce-
19                                                                  h.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~batliltiaetncetee.  loapitnale are eaasbltsh-et  pee=eecely etffed
ENERCY CONS!tPTION PER  XII[~ - A.-l   pti-  f --gyby a  least one. phynicta.   ImEaTbliethmnt  pronidiag petape1ly ntodie1
tallaCh CoectoaLTlot P100000111 - uctoal c.oneooytoo of ooomorclaltoargf  loal  tareleye not Ino-aded.turdld hosyttah e. hasevec,.n,ladel henhebl sad aediee
and lignIte, pecrole-s   atr  gas- codydho..ro-, coI-a  ano gtaheerl alec  -                 teeter  non permanently etaffed by a pbyslota   f hat by-a sedi.lal    leas
tesitl  to ,,ilagras  of col-1     lclotper cpilta; 19h0, 19100 and 1978                   seeoddilfe  I,-ec.9,htch offer ir-pnta.te  ncadatie end peamide 
daee.                                                                                      Oilsttd rang  at nediolfctttn.Pre1tes    prpase. sehe- hoel-
tal     WHO,e itlepincIpa 1geetra  ned eperaled to-pilet.al  an  cora
POPUILATIiINIt 01 1110, tICiOSTICi                                                           hospitals 1coe  or caet bopicae and leedtal end asters,teyte ee
Tc,ta.l Porudatl-  Mld-near teolli-)a   - tn of la1y 1; 1960  1970 -.atd loot             ldms.... re            I Soe etllta   - Total sebse ofteseae  oo  discharges
daca.               - -                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~- fo  hospItals dioiide  hy the nashee c  beds.    -
differc l deitctn   o ..       nrsm  effc   ....c..           i   o deco             HOUtINt
amaogco...tIlet; 1960,19, ll..ad 1910 deta.                                                     Sie.ae .e of risehld  ...r..s. na-boas...hald  - tonl. otb-e  anld cr
Panleto  P ftiosA household ononiaets af a gace of tdi.latt 1980ebee Ilivn   q-etsea
Iaplleto  in har lll   Caoet            hilalo  croleotlocd are hlied 05loo             so theIr..  neon senle   A      Porer-    ode  ayo.ayenbetooddI
toalpyuaco  h  aean  scan  ter  crace  offetttoosts                             she honhoi .,ld   el. cysAtietted. pspne.d,l-          -      t.            I
Prjetin   ernaar  fr  oralsyaeeecoprseofthee.oe..se                            -be,aafnFebe... of, ceran  peI om..ood   r            . an .d rrl-hsaee
le-al  aod feaelIeepecny  tblllgan7.  fes   Tepra eoalhgs   eyrenhy.tellg  etad-i-eeast  hotae   n
esae  o  trtisy rae aDn hnaihrs lnenasasna   ecinetounuu-ledpaes
fertility,  lcadeg so inton  Isod and past feaily plasing perfornast.               Eaeon   leotrltlsn lercnta0dtell f         neal - n'tel. orbn. ed core  -
Each coa..try is atn  signed one ot eb... ninetmbeln f macoalaty                       Casoselosa..l d-oiegll    ithaltl-tr2lty' Ia liIg qoareers.P ae .pentnage
cOn bleeb rat. e In  qua  tc the death rt,n ae  the age  --t-o r  le-    toUCATION
matte... cntant.  ThIs 0, ..chieoe  onlyfatcfes ilhicy'rate  deoIto. 10              adjste  tEralle-  Ratios
the reylaceeo  le-e  of ..ti -oe reProduction rae he_ enbgnrto                         Plaoeh -h         tal male cod f             Gil.-..oe   ent1, sale and fe-fl
of ensn  eloa   esl   snsy1Te1eeosayppuaIn.. oeeec et of all ages ecth  p= 1ey1era  Ce penatael                                                          f  epste
asetiatado   t   at  o  h   rjd             carteesic    tohsotaut                       prsaryethrol-nge payilacton;eeod.  nlis ids   gd01
In the Year 20000, acd the faca of decIne. ci tetilisy laet  to  aee                     years hib adjiahed far diftfsant l.enths at priceny ed.. iossloalte
set le-.                                                                                ca laistoh iulseledcsoerdtatsyerad10prcn
hetsa in-            arlso  Is meachad - The Year e.a stationary rJoi.or                    sio  ,sn  yard   are - ee orehv  th               -yttl  celae
als  e  bes  Seoed                                                                  ...etoedaryshn  - tct1. sale nod tesad  - Caspated -  ehats;ea-ede
PPoelrtlo  I telt                                                                             Ido..atioreol es    eae   fnryastapcedPoaTytsirna                             -
Pere..      .-00naopptco   r   -noac  klo-ater 1100 heoreref of                            P_ote .serl,....         nnl or teache  tpplate   toacotye  teet psptb
fato-   19h  17,yo 178dte                                                                              12lnsoerata -7 yrsea.  andetnee- y-Oocl ssstserlldc
Pyeer cepndAts_ne. for 10p-60. 106-Clb. atd 10714-y-.)                                      cokicnsnpnr- . dss  isneitis..lt.Jd.
latnn   fo.r.),-   -t0 -d-60 5 toga   ad 1,f0-d y-seaperoetdegely                                               sated- fdl  prdyolisot ged1   et   n   vr
1ooltan6lh, 1910,  and 1010d dana.              -                               conco=top-1lop
he   ora  r.edoitpro   tsesprecsoeseasoeit  fat-                                        Radiop RetaIners -oertann  osdatnl-Alnp a  retiner  teeed
tiot  :ats  uusycltyer.ne.e  adogit.00, 1,en9l60                                      tadaeeo   aer7po0l   ertcdac f197ltnp eJod"isi
P.pAlloiPloGlt-b Rcutoro  Otuccat  -oounna  -1 holth- fast ot . acupt-o                    ctaeoiaei  coonttIt..ae sodIn 1ear   she  rgiststo  of eah  sat
cindy  Pltolffj-Coos'P"T  Pcc f...crrlcf aosu1l - 'eruectage-0t marrie
IdnoLodu tyodacte pan-eolt .llo        I  -lhtl0     ldeo at per capIta esta
ptodoei.  of alp. food co,nacdlif.e         . Paota   oldnte   n  teedand               WIes of Pdaily  general In recet       ...ee Ap l'. t defne  a   .. Ieredoe  psh-.d
t Yoncledr   a  bss.Ceoaiee  crr  riay  rds(.ghceran                                   o  e'diy'ofi  ararft estPorrmsctek
Per noic stebotof olucAn)prorth Lboyyopso  -bcoospfe  frost---.     dIt
9ae...tiedats   it. todpuean,  n   oc i diaci.ui.s.Oeugre O-pnlcoo  toli  netloo  oratorIes are l                               eoa- onepldble -l06. 100v s
sectsAN   N ero  nlsedb PThsI    nphnOgltal needs fath.safnTal aust-                       1078fdata.
haiehod hen-l;11-hI  1010  an ~I6-1107 0dte -fIshIng..it   -.                         ni, e   prcng   f oa   eo  farce;y1960.d11   n  dL               P pl dat..p
net supl  offod  e  de.t-1upl  0  oo   sdaoned asbo.   5                            . d feeotrloctyd e -s 1ye end .gees  pdrings of. tota  Iaht  fence;1960,
allanenca of hO grama at total prIlet,prdyedI  grass of.S aIfnd                17  ad17   es
pos  poeId Af hlh-8gras p      ho- id be e-hs  prot-In.  Thsed   etycend-li I   en                                                        .  'Y- ....
nedsl see. bean ngso nOose atilb gie1s at 1961t pea197t ed 197 grams af                 ent ,inny tales Cr fh.aa  estt,el,ndteeelhefn 
Worl dfon A-ftvst 10-ppli  1070 and 1917 l, .dttl face.-t                      'ns-   esta enr-cc-           of -h paoEnlt... end lon ltimo te-nd         lldfn s
rtnn  fro  cyials  nd  dles  In  ane  er dp:  0h1-t, 110 ad 197 dta.   ,~iasescossa coa - acitat ppolnlesaado  15  ad 0  nedave
tries data derloed frog 1115 tebdes; 1060.t1910 ned dOl dasa.                                                   -blOel1960tTnl0lfIO
.t-od  y  Aitt                                 - 1  hyi               -ti         Peesaan a.t PIaebnsIohI   ehadbn)-gole   ye.s
ac bIrt; -1901  dOll ad 1070  ese.              -                  fi.tonefshoblds..   16,  90   d198d.
Ictl -frnlcr  at lent saad --.   Anodel dnr-he o  Intene oas  one  beat                         -Pl..      .L..    ...I  li,ig
teass soOnC   6a0a Itc-      af  arecl1 t pnn   -tnd.y odrh  ee. sad ecead -M l 
pt.-Plot ill  f ~~~~~hi.h AO Be_                                 Absisstean  ooslns  sca  oeelvl emetbatse  
Poehataf peole Inoel. uren, enhrored  nlt  ranosle t  rce.  na sae              otlisal eon   diet fpto.1esnta  sa-od f                  aogoibsea    s  o
perentge  of chey rnp ftle pophet-inas           lp . .tdabur FAtaaeO Ihlloir           tua  19leclo  laetysoeslve   san-7tio  aeag5e  rp
"Ieasoocahlroosiuudipfca  h  houssol I     V  ifd aPo snbtej ofpl th  hoshod            pa.edd    Pag tiacior fec Aheadoplta-   Pnln dgrtia tleve   Aot l f- -ti-m
octal - t-sbee of psiple  cacab,thrben,.nhderural) seRned bytnbyenh 
ptL        ayccoe  h   oleto E.andde-e-.l,b.fY..flf.l i.                                       l. tith atnhebso  trenes....tonts  fasaysi  en   renin P-egerlsant
cst erolsRadanlrtseleos



-21--                                     ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
GDP Growth Rates in %
(in billions of current CFA)                          (at constant 1967 prices)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980                 1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
A, NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1. GDP                                        94.1   106.9   120.8   135.3   158.4                    4.8     5.7      2.3      0.5      1.0
2. Consumption                                93.5   107.0   125.5   142.9   179.9
3. Gross Investment                             9.1    12.4    11.2    12.1    10.1
4. Exports, incl. NFS                         25.4    32.7    33.7    33.1    30.9
5. Imports, incl. NFS                         3 .9    45.2    49.6    52.8    62.5
B. SECTOR OUTPUT
1. Value Added                                94.1   106.9   120.8   135.3   158.4
2. Agriculture                                '_36.6    40.4    43.3    49.2    56.9
3. Industry                                   15.2    18.2    21.9    24.4    28.8
4. Services                                   42.3    48.3    55.6    61.7    72.7
C. PUBLIC FINANCE
1. Budget Revenue                             15.4    18.4    18.8    25.9    27.8
2. Current Expenditure                        17.6    21.0    22.7    27.4    29.5
3. Capital Expenditure                         1.3       1.9     2.2      0.5      1.0
4. Budgetary Deficit                          -3.5    -4.5    -6.1    -2.0    -2.7
5. Public Investments                           7.8    10.5       9.0    11.7      9.2
D. MONETARY SURVEY                                                                                    Average Annual Growth Rates
1976 - 1980
1. Money and Quasi-Money                      19.3    20.5    22.5    27.1    33.5J/                            14.8
2. Domestic Credit                            22.6    25.5    30.2    27.4    34.21/                            10.9
Credit to Public Sector                  9.7    10.8    12.0    11.8    13.1T/
Credit to Private Sector                12.9    14.7    18.2    15.6    21.1_/
3. Money and Quasi-Money as X of GDP          20.5    19.2    18.6    20.0    21.1
4. Domestic Credit as % of GDP                24.0    23.9    25.0    20.3    21.6
April 1981
1/ September 1980.



-22 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(in millions of current U5 dollars)
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
Exports, incl. NFS                                                      108.5       133.1      149.4      155.6      146.2
Imports, incl. NFS                                                     -144.9    -184.0    -219.9    -248.2    -295.8
Resource Balance                                                        -36.4      -50.9      -70.5       -92.6    -149.6
Factor Services                                                           0.1       -1.6         0.4       -9.0       -8.0
N'et Investment Income                                               -1.7       -1.6        0.4       -8.9       -8.0
Interest on Public Debt                                               --        -0.9       -0.8       -0.8       -0.7
Other Interest                                                        --         --         --         --         -
Workers Remittances                                                   0.9        0.9        0.8        0.7        0.7
Other                                                                 0.9
Current Transfers (net)                                                  -4.3       -0.8        -4.4      -9.4       -11.8
Current Account Balance                                                 -40.6      -53.3      -74.5    -111.0    -169.4
Private Capital (net)                                                      3.8        3.7       13.3       34.3       23.7
Capital Grants                                                           46.2        35.4       48.8      87.0       117.0
Public Med.- and Long-term Loans (net)                                   17.1         6.1        __        -7.1        7.1
Disbursements                                                       (17.1)      (6.1)       __        (5.1)    (19.4)
Repayments                                                          ( -- )      (__ )       --      (-12.2)   (-12.3)
Short-term Capital (net)!'                                               -2.1       -4.5       -1.3        5.6       -8.5
Capital n.e.i.                                                           -8.5       13.0         2.6      -1.4         5.3
(Trust Fund)                                                                               (6.6)                 (9.5)
(SDR)                                                                                                 (2.4)      (2.4)
Increase in Reserves (+)                                                 15.9        0.4      -11.1         7.4     -24.8
Level of Net Foreign Assets (end year)                                    3.8       -4.6      -10.9        15.3       34.5-/
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                         234.0      245.7      225.6       212.7      211.3
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(in millions of US dollars)                                                                           Share in % of Total
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980                 1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Exports f.o.b.                                82.6   116.3   123,3   122.1   110.7                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Coffee                                    18.4    43.9    35,5    32.4    23.7                 22.2    37.7    28.8    26.5    21.4
Diamonds                                   14.5    22.4    36.8    38.1    37.4                 17.6    19.3    29.8    31.2    33.8
Cotton                                     21.4    19.5    12.9    11.2    10.4                 25.9    16.8    10.5       9.2      9.4
Timber                                     18.4    18.7    24,4    27.7    27.4                22.3    16.1    19.8    22.7    24.7
Tobacco                                     5.6      7.7     7.5      5.2      5.2               6.8      6.6     6.1      4.3      4.7
Other                                       4.3     4.1      6.2      7.5      6.6               5.2      3.5     5.0      6.1      6.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
(in millions of US dollars)
Public Debt,incl. guaranteed                148.7
Public Debt, incl. non-guaranteed
Total Outstanding and Disbursed             148.7
DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1979
Public Debt, excl. arrears                   10%
Public Debt, incl. arrears                   45%
IBRD/IDA LENDING, JANUARY 31, 1981
Outstanding and Disbursed                    28.2
Undisbursed                                   3.1
31.3
April 1981
1/ Includes errors and ommissions.
2/ End September.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1981) 1/
Credit                                                  Amount (US$ million)
Number     Year      Borrower       Purpose             Total    Undisbursed
Three Credits have been fully disbursed.                12.4          --
847-CA     1978        CAR          Third Highway       15.5          0.04
894-CA     1979        CAR          Livestock            2.5          2.33
Total                           30.4          2.37
Credit                                                  Amount (SDR million)
Number     Year      Borrower       Purpose             Total    Undisbursed
1073-CA    1980        CAR          Education
Sup. Financing       0.7          0.7
Total                            0.7          0.7
1/   Does not include one supplementary Credit denominated in SDRs which was
signed on December 24, 1980, but was not yet effective on March 31, 1981:
Credit                                                  Amount (SDR million)
Number     Year      Borrower       Purpose             Total    Undisbursed
1074-CA    1980        CAR          Third Highway        3.5          3.5
Sup. Financing
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Nil.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 308-CA   Education I Project:  US$3.9 million Credit of
May 26, 1972; Effectiveness Date: January 18,
1973; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
Credit No. 1073-CA  Supplementary Financing for Education I Project:
0.7 million SDRs Credit of December 24, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: February 18, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The project originally consisted of: (a) construction and equip-
ping of two lower-secondary schools; (b) extensions to four lycees and to
the technical lycee in Bangui; and (c) technical assistance (seven man-years)
for project implementation and for the preparation of a long-term educational
development plan, curricula, and teacher-training plans. The implementation
of the project is three years behind the appraisal schedule because of: (a)
delays in appointing consultants and in awarding construction contracts;
(b) indecision over how to reduce the project's scope and meet cost overruns;
(c) weak project management; (d) political instability; and (e) a lack of
timely provision of capital counterpart funds, with resultant delays in
paying contractors. As a consequence of the delays and unexpectedly high
world and domestic inflation, the estimated total cost of the project almost
tripled, and it was decided to reduce the project's scope. The Government
decided, with the Association's agreement, to proceed with only the extensions
to the five lycees and the construction of two new lower-secondary schools.
All five of the lycee extensions have been built, furnished, and equipped,
and four are in full use. During the change of Government in September
1979, the equipment and furniture at one of the Bangui lycee extensions were
stolen and have not since been replaced. The two lower-secondary schools
were built in time for opening in the fall of 1979; however, necessary site
works, provisions for electricity and, in one case, for water, and award of
furniture and equipment were all postponed for lack of funds. These problems
are now being resolved with the supplementary financing, and the project
is expected to be completed before the Credit Closing Date of December 31,
1981.
1/   This note is designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects which are being implemented, and to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to
remedy them. It should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that it does not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Credit No. 847-CA Highways III Project: US$15.5 million Credit of
November 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Credit No. 1074-CA Supplementary Financing for Highways III Project:
3.5 million SDRs Credit of December 24, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project consists of the reconstruction and paving of the Bangui-
Bossembele road (145 km), the construction of a two-lane bridge over the
M-Bali river, and the provision to the Directorate-General of Public Works of
consultants' services for engineering and supervision of works. Civil works
on the Bangui-Bossembele road have progressed satisfactorily. Progress on
the construction of the M'Bali bridge has been delayed because of problems
with the foundation works and subsequent design changes. The completion of
works was delayed by a lack of funds, but if the supplementary-financing
credit is declared effective soon, the works should be completed by December
1981. The effectiveness of the IDA Credit is contingent on the effectiveness
of a supplementary-financing loan from the Kuwait Fund. The loan agreement
has been signed, but the Government has not yet completed other formalities
for effectiveness. We expect effectiveness of both the loan and the Credit
shortly, however. The Government is making good progress in complying with
the conditions of the Third Highway Credit.
Credit No. 894-CA Livestock I Project: US$2.5 million Credit of
April 10, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1980;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The project is designed to develop livestock production and improve
nutrition and the living conditions of one of the poorest segments of the
CAR's population, the M'Bororo herdsmen. It consists of four main components:
(i) provision of animal health services in the western half of the country;
(ii) strengthening the Government's Livestock Service; (iii) introduction and
testing of simple pasture management techniques, based on herdsmen's associa-
tions in a pilot zone; and (iv) pre-investment studies. All expatriate posi-
tions have been filled, and the expatriate technical-assistance team has
established a good working relationship with its national counterparts.
Equipment has been ordered, bidding documents for civil works have been
prepared, and a census of herds in the Topia region (the pilot region) has
been taken. The Veterinary College has been repaired, and new courses have
started. A cost overrun of US$1.5 million equivalent is likely because
operating costs for vehicles and personnel-related costs for local staff are
proving to be higher than expected.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            Nine months
(b)  Project prepared by:                      Government and IDA
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission:           October 30, 1980
(d)  Negotiations completed:                   April 2, 1981
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:            September 1981
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
It is planned that a mission will visit the CAR in early June to
accelerate the Government's preparation for Credit effectiveness
and project implementation.
Section III:   Special Conditions
The Government has provided assurances on the following principal
items:
(a)  The necessity of obtaining the Project Coordinator's recommenda-
tion and thic Uss-r-iati"nns approval for any expenditures or addi-
tional studies, use of consultants, training, or other activities
for which a need is identified during project implementation (para.
33(e));
(b)  the necessity of obtaining the Association's approval of the list
of expenditures for start-up activities for the integrated cotton/
food-crop project, said list to be defined during the appraisal of
the cotton/food-crop project (para. 36); and
(c)  the necessity of obtaining the Association's approval of the terms
and conditions of hiring of all consultants and technical-assistance
personnel (para. 49).



''N  N   I                                                                                                                   lA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD  16646
20'~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'D M                                                            iN  .               *(                                       .U'' " 7                    2
LeJAMON A<S    UUAN
BEN?N >JJ   .,N             =1hB -G    E       It Ai9                                                         9 S'b<< (0                                             FIAN'                E
r
)  K                                                       O~~~~~~~~~~,dda  N'-'~~~~~~~~)    I   
AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N0
Bossorgoo        ~CENT    L           AFRICAN          REPUBLIC
EQUATOR  :               t   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pse., b s                                                          ,et            , mCrO2
_q;          *-   '"in80  t *  L: ;; E;'i 'o'o2o    -                                                                  Loogo0
Jm rzbrv m an er/dorsemMA   kAB  ~' -: ArwrS                                    A,oom             No =., ,                  -~i         
: , " : f :: SMW 0  - t*6giSti;:'-r%- "-v-               y                     ;        i ,  o  r:                                                    A,
UINEA  X,                                                                                                        
T~~~
,~~~~~~F                                                 21                                                                 -   - ,-',      - ;  arzias    -:Zi-
r T t B .,ll2 ; 7: s o,,'' ',, w i' 00 b odby  ax  LREV :  o: gsd                                      0S.                                                                           O b
00000 o0o-,H, BooroR fo, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~D
0' 2Peooo,e,,,r,o,oftO,,eader~C   A 0'
CO                    B
N' d,,,,rosor,,ordod'O                                    -                                                                                      CNTRt AFICA   REPBLA
29wa"orz/oo"~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ 0G J0                                                                 1                 TCICMAL ASSISTANCfEPRUJFCT
scw ropr b-61o-                                                                                                                                                  PtI 
r   oSb"4                                               -'----'--~~~~~~~~~~. .......   ayI*y
i] o t N o .r e                                                                          F ee'00      t o o       s e a       4 0 0   M i N ti
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0' ,0J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~-~~~~" ~~2'                                    A



