Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4525
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
THIRD POWER PROJECT CREDIT 734 SL
May 31, 1983
Western Africa Region
Projects Department
Energy Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
*their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency                              Leone (Le)
Appraisal Year 1977        Exchange Rate US$1 = Le 1.16
Completion Year 1982        Exchange Rate USS1 = Le 1.26
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW        =    Kilowatt
MW        =    Megawatt   =  1000 Kilowatts
GWh       =    Gegawatt hour   =  1 million KWh
kWh       =    Kilowatt hour
km             1000 meters   =  0.62 miles
kV        =    Kilovolt   =  1000 volts
kVA       =    Kilovolt ampere
r.p.m.    =    Revolutions per minute
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
PWD       -    Public Works Department
SLEC      -    Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation
BADEA     -    Banque Arabe du Developpement en Afrique
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
IMF       -    International Monetary Fund
OPEC      -    Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
ESB       -    Electricity Supply Board of Ireland
NPA       -    National Power Authority
CSO       -    Central Statistical Office
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY COPPORATION
THIRD POWER PROJECT CREDIT 734-SL
PROJECT COMPLETIOtN REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                             .... i.
Basic Data Sheet           ................ ii
Highlights             ................ iv
1. INTRODUCTION .
2.       PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL.                           2
Origin and Preparation of the Project.                      2
Project's Role.                                             5
Project Description.                                        5
3.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION AND COST.                  6
Conditions of Effectiveness.                                6
Changes in Project.                                         7
Implementation Schedule.                                    7
A.  IDA Financed Portion of the Project        .7
Extension of King Tom Power Station        .7
Data Processing Equipment.                         7
Preparation of Bumbuna Project.                    8
B.  BADEA Financed Portion of the Project       .      9
33KV Distribution First Stage.                     9
Generating Units for the Provinces.                9
Measures to Prevent Generator Outages
at King Tom Power Station.                       9
Consultants Services .10
Procurement           ..10
Costs and Disbursements .11
Extension of King Tom Station .11
Bumbuna Hydro Project Preparation .12
Disbursements .14
Operations .                                          14
Performance of Consultants, Contractors,
Suppliers and Borrower .15
Consultants .15
Contractors .16
Suppliers .16
The Borrower .16
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4.        OPERATING PERFORMANCE .................................... 16
SLEC's Performance .16
5.        FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .17
Financial Results .17
Financial Covenants .18
6.        INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE .19
Management and Organizational Effectiveness .19
Organization and Staffing .19
Staff Training and Development .20
Covenants and Sectoral Development .20
7.        PROJECT JUSTIFICATION.............................21
The Market for Power .21
Rate of Return .21
Project Achievements .22
8.        BANK PERFORMANCE .23
Assessment of Borrowers Implementation Capacity .23
Assessment of Beneficiaries Implementation Capacity .         23
Supervision .24
Working Relationships .24
9. CONCLUSIONS .24
ANNEXE S
Annex 1:   Provincial Towns Statistics 1978/79
Annex 2:   Schedule of Disbursements by Category
Annex 3:   Disbursements by Quarters
Annex 4:   Principle Covenants
Annex 5:   Development of System Capability, Demand,
Sales, etc., Actual and Forecast
Annex 6:   Tabulation for Rate of Return Computation
Western System only
Annex 7:   Schedule of Supervision Missions



SIERRA LEONE
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD POWER PROJECT - CREDIT 734-SL
Preface
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the third power
project in Sierra Leone for which a credit of $8.2 million was approved on
July 12, 1977. Parallel financing of $5.0 million was provided by BADEA
and because of cost overruns a supplementary loan of $1.6 million was
obtained from the OPEC fund in May 1979. The credit was closed on
December 31, 1981 after three postponements totalling twenty-four months.
Final disbursements from the credit were made on July 29, 1982.
This Project Completion Report was prepared by the Western Africa
Regional Office following the visit of an IDA mission to Sierra Leone in
June/July 1982. It is based on completion reports prepared by others for
certain parts of the project, progress reports from the Sierra Leone
Electricity Corporation (SLEC) management and its consultants, supervision
reports and IDA files, and on discussions with the borrower (Government)
and beneficiary (SLEC).
The project has not been subjected to audit by the Operations
Evaluation Department. Copies of the PCR were sent to SLEC, the Government,
BADEA and the OPEC Fund for comments; however, none were received.
The authors are grateful for the assistance given them by the
officials of the Government ministries concerned, the staff of SLEC at
all levels and SLEC's consultants.






- ii -
Project Completion Basic Data Sheet
Sierra Leone - Third Power Project
(Credit 734 SL)
Key Project Data
Actual 1/
as % of -
Appraisal      Actual or       Appraisal
Estimate   Estimated Actual    Estimate
Project Costs (US$ million)                   15.2           19.2         126%
Credit Amount (US$ million)                    8.2            8.2
Date Board Approval                                        07/12/77
Date Effectiveness                          12/28/77       03/29/78
Date Physical Components Completed          09/30/79       10/31/82
Proportion then completed (%)               72%
Closing Date                                12/31/79       12/31/81
Economic Rate of Return (%)                   13%            10%
Financial Rate of Return (%)                  12%             4%
Institutional Performance                improvement    deterioration
Agronomic Performance                         NA             NA
Number of Direct Beneficiaries (year...)      NA             NA
Cumulative Disbursements
FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)               7.3   8.2
Actual (US$ million)                           NIL   7.2   7.7   8.0    8.2
Actual as % of estimate                         0     88    94    98    100
Date of final disbursement                      07/29/82
Principal repaid to (mo.,day,year) (US$ million)      12/31/82  $NIL
/ Principally due to changes in exchange rates and additional studies required
from Consultants






- iii -
Mission Data
Special-
zations     Per-
Date    No. of   Mandays   Repre-1/ formancp           Types of
Mission       (mo./Yr.)  Persons  in Field   sented    Rating;  Trend-/ Problems-4/
Identification    11/1974     3       35
Appraisal 1       04/1975     3       45
Appraisal 2       11/1975     4       30
Appraisal 3       04/1976     2       14
Subtotal                           124
Supervision 1     11/1977     2       14      (a)(b)      2         2      MFP
Supervision 2     11/1978     2       21      (a)(b)      3         3      ME
Supervision 3     02/1979     1        6       b          3         3      MF
Supervision 4     07/1979     1        6       b           3        2      MF
Supervision 5     04/1980     1       10       b           3        2      MFP
Supervision 6     12/1980     2       10      (a)(b)      3         3     MF
Supervision 7     07/1981     2        8      (a)(b)      3         3     MFP
Supervision 8     11/1981     2       12      (a)(b)      3         1      MF
Supervision 9     06/1982     2       21      (a)(b)      3         1     MFP
Subtotal                           108
Total                                232
Other Project Data
Borrower                 Sierra Leone Government
Executing Agency         Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation
Fiscal Year              March 31
Name of Currency         Leone   (Le)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average   (1976)    US$ 1.00 =1.17
Intervening Years Average          US$ 1.00 =1.07
Completion Year Average            US$ 1.00 =1.26
Follow-on Project:
Name                   Power Sector Engineering & Technical Assistance Project
Loan/Credit Number     Cr. 1265 SL
Loan/Credit Amount     $5 million
Date Board Approval    June 17, 1982
-/ (a) Engineer (b) Financial Analyst
2/ 1= problem-free or minor problems; 2= moderate problems; 3= major problems
3/ 1= improving; 2= stationary; 3= deteriorating
4/ F= financial; M= managerial; T= technical; P= political; O= other






- iv -
SIEPPA LEONE
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
PROJECT COMPLETION RFPORT
THIRD POWER PROJECT - CREDIT 734 SI
Highlights
The principal objectives of the project were firstly to prepare
the first step (Bumbuna hydroelectric project) in a long term plan to
develop the country's resources of renewable energy in order to reduce its
dependence on imported oil fuel, and secondly to maintain and improve
reliability of electricity supplies to consumers until the Bumbuna project
could be implemented. A third objective was to improve financial
management of SLEC (para. 2.2.1.).
The project did not fully meet any of the above objectives. The
preparation of bidding documents, which was the final stage of preparation
for the Bumbuna project, was left unfinished due to lack of foreign
exchange with which to pay the consultants (para. 3.3.4.). The creation
of a Bumbuna Development Committee and appointment of an Executive
Engineer to give direction to the Bumbuna Project implementation and form
the nucleus of a project management organization, did not meet its
objective - probably because of the appointment of an engineer with no
previous experience of Hydroelectric developments (paras. 6.4.3. and
8.1.2.). Although the equipment for improving reliability of supplies was
provided and installed, reliability in fact deteriorated primarily due to
lack of funds with which to purchase fuel because of the government's
refusal to approve increases in tariffs whilst at the same time
withholding the alternative subsidies necessary to enable SLEC to purchase
adequate supplies; and also because SLEC exhausted its stocks of essential
maintenance materials and was unable to obtain the foreign exchange with
which to replenish them (para. 4.1.1.). None of the important financial
covenants in the Project Agreement, such as rate of return, revaluation of
assets, tariff revision and audit were met by SLEC (see Annex 4) due
primarily to the fact that top management was almost entirely preoccupied
with trying to maintain electricity supplies under the difficuLt
conditions created by the Government (paras. 4.1.2. to 4.1.4. and Chapter
5).
There were in addition a number of subsidiary objectives as
outlined in the covenants to the credit and project agreements (Annex
4). These were primarily designed to ensure sufficient autonomy and
revenue to SLEC to enable it to improve its management and finances. Few
of these requirements were met and none of the more important ones such as
maintaining the price of fuel at world market prices (para. 3.7.4.) or
granting SLEC's executives the necessary autonomy in day to day management
(para. 6.1.1.) or increasing tariffs (para. 4.1.1.) and provision of
foreign exchange for purchase of essential spares (para. 4.1.1.).
The project cost exceeded the estimates but the exact extent will
not be known for some time since the project has not yet been completed



-v -
(para. 3.3.4.), however the overrun on some items is known. For example
the cost overrun in dollars on the installation of slow speed diesels was
38% due entirely to changes in exchange rates. An estimated overrun of
225% in the cost of preparation of the Bumbuna project is about one-third
due to the exchange rate and the balance to additional work undertaken by
the consultants (para. 3.5.8.). The overrun of 100% in time was due
partly to a three months delay in making the credit effective (paras.
3.1.2. and 3.1.3.) but mainly due to delays in completing the preparation
of Bumbuna caused by the addition of studies and a slowdown by the
consultants because they were not being paid (para. 3.3.4.).
An unusually large amount of retroactive financing ($5.7 million
or 70% of the credit) was involved due to a delay of nearly eighteen
months in presenting the credit to the IDA Board because of the
Government's failure to meet conditions required by IDA and the IMF
(paras. 2.1.6. and 2.1.9.) to restore SLEC's financial viability and
stabilize the economy respectively.
The principal lesson which this project makes abundantly clear is
that where a Government is pursuing unsound economic policies and as a
result has already got into financial difficulties, promises of corrective
action in the form of covenants in credit and project agreements are not
enough (paras. 9.3. and 9.5.). In extreme cases such as this, where the
Government's difficulties had been well known to IDA over the five year
period of preparation of the project (para. 2.1.9.) it would be prudent,
in spite of the sensitivities of the Government of the day, to require
action on important issues affecting the Beneficiary before making the
credit available; as has since been done in Credit 1265 for completion of
the Bumbuna Project preparation (para. 8.1.).
Experience with this project also confirms accumulated experience
in other countries that public utilities are unlikely to maintain
acceptable standards of efficiency unless they are shielded from political
influences in day to day management by conferring on them a high degree of
financial and managerial autonomy (para. 6.1.1.).



SIERRA LEONE
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD POWER PROJECT - CREDIT 734-SL
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1.     Development of the power sector in Sierra Leone was the
responsibility of the Public Works Department (PWD) of Government until
1964 when the Government created the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation
(SLEC) to take over all the assets and responsibilities of the PWD
associated with public supplies of electricity. SLEC was managed by a
Board of Directors appointed by the Minister of Works and developed
satisfactorily until 1969 when major labor troubles led to violence and
the resignation of the General Manager. For a while things improved under
new management until 1973/74 when a series of electrical failures in the
King Tom Power Station generators necessitated extensive load shedding for
prolonged periods. At the same time SLEC ran into serious financial
problems due to the dramatic increases in fuel prices and the Government's
refusal to approve increases in tariffs. The immediate financial problems
were aleviated by short-term advances from the Government, which by
1974/75 had reached Le 7.2 million.
1.2.     In early 1974 SLEC's management came under Government
investigation for alleged corrupt practices, following which the entire
top management was dismissed in May 1974 and legislation passed abolishing
the SLEC Board. The Board's functions were taken over in October 1974 by
a newly formed Ministry of Energy and Power and SLEC came under the direct
control of the Minister, who promptly entered into a five year agreement
with a German consulting firm to provide five senior staff and manage the
corporation. The consultant's management services contract was renewed
for three years in 1979 and finally terminated on July 5th, 1982 since
when the corporation has been managed by Sierra Leonian staff apart from
some expatriate assistance on the financial side.
1.3.     Apart from some small steam units totalling 5MW installed between
1944 and 1960, and a 2.4MW seasonal hydro station owned by the Guma Valley
Water Authority in the Freetown Area, generation of public electricity
supplies in Sierra Leone has been entirely by diesel engines. About 87%
of SLEC's sales are in the Western System, the area comprising the capital
city of Freetown and its environs which has a maximum demand of about
23MW. The remaining 13% of sales are in 14 provincial towns, all supplied
by small diesel stations, and having maximum demands of between 85KW and
2.0MW. In addition, SLEC runs four small township supplies associated
with Government developments on an agency basis for the Government. These
installations supply four townships with demand varying from 28KW to
300KW. Five other townships receive supplies from private generating
plants associated with industries in their areas. (See Annex 1)



- 2 -
1.4.     Development has been slow due to a stagnant economy, an extreme
shortage of foreign exchange due to the country's heavy committments in
supplier's credits and short-term loans, and an acute shortage of cash due
to the Government's past refusal to permit tariff increases in the face of
steeply rising fuel costs. In the Western System around Freetown
increases in sales have averaged 7.9% per annum over the past 4 years but
for SLEC as a whole, only 5.3%. Power generated in the Western Area has
increased at 8% in the same period and is probably a more accurate
indication of the demand since sales statistics have been distorted by
widespread illegal connections and tampering with meters. The low figure
of 5.3% for SLEC as a whole is caused by a reduction of sales in
provincial centers averaging 5% per annum due to the fact that in recent
years SLEC has been obliged to reduce the hours in which supply is
available from 24 to as low as 12 because they were unable to find the
necessary cash to purchase sufficient fuel. Sales to provincial centers
are now 32% less than they were in 1975, and there is little doubt that
there is substantial latent demand in all the provincial centers.
1.5.     The Government's primary objective in the power sector is to
develop the considerable renewable resources of energy contained in the
country's river systems, estimated at about 1,300 MW and 6,800 GWh per
annum. To this end, the Government in 1971 commissioned a Swiss firm of
consultants to do a survey of potential developments entirely within the
borders of Sierra Leone. Of the sites reconnoitred, Bumbuna Falls on the
Seli River about 230 km from Freetown was found to be the most attractive,
and in 1974 the Government asked the Bank and the Banque Arabe du
Developpement en Afrique (BADEA) to finance further studies to bring the
project to the bidding stage.
1.6.     Two previous loans had been made to SLEC by the Bank.    Loan 388-
SL for US$ 3.8 million in 1964 and Loan 553-SL for US$ 3.9 million in
1968. The first loan was for 11.2MW of slow speed marine diesel plant in
King Tom power station in Freetown and some 11KV distribution. The second
was for a further 6.6 MW of slow speed diesel plant in Freetown and new
diesel stations of 3 MW at Kenema and 2 MW at Koidu, as well as some H.T.
and L.T. distribution improvements and additions at each center. The Bank
Group's participation in the financing of the sector was therefore
relatively small though not insignificant. No technical assistance was
involved in either loan.
1.7.     This report is based on project completion reports for certain
items in the project, progress reports from SLEC management and its
consultants, supervision reports and files, and the findings of an IDA
mission to Sierra Leone in June/July, 1982.
2.       PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.1.     Origin and Preparation of the Project
2.1.1.   Credit 734-SL was primarily for preparation of the Bumbuna
hydroelectric project; the equipment and other services being an addition
to secure the supply of electricity in the interim period until Bumbuna
could be commissioned.



- 3 -
2.1.2.   The Bumbuna Project originated from three studies carried out in
1970 and 1971. The first was a reconnaissance of the Bumbuna Falls and
other sites commissioned by Government in July 1970 from Canadian
consultants, with an understanding that if found feasible the consultants
would complete the design and assist the Government in getting a soft loan
from CIDA, the Canadian International Development Agency. The study was
completed in October 1970 and recommended a 50 MW development to be
commissioned in 1975. The Government then commissioned a second study for
development of Bumbuna Falls from Yugoslav consultants on the
understanding that they would design and build the project as well as
arrange the financing for it. Their report was issued in mid-1971 and
recommended an 85 MW development and offered a loan of 50% of the
estimated cost of $53.9 million. The third study was carried out by a
Swiss consultant under a UNDP Special Fund grant. Their report issued in
September 1971, entitled "Strengthening of the Sierra Leone Electricity
Corporation", covered the investigation of 19 different sites on the
principal rivers within the country. It recommended five of them for
further investigation, one of which was the Bumbuna Falls on the Seli
River with a capacity of 72 MW. About the same time the Canadian
consultant who by then had formed a consortium with an Italian contractor
and a Canadian contractor put forward a proposal for a scheme estimated to
cost $41.8 million and offered to provide financing for 80% of the cost if
they built it on a turnkey basis. Because of their more favourable
financial offer, the Government in January 1972 commissioned the Canadian
consortium to carry out a full feasibility study including preliminary
design work for the sum of C$ 1,350,000.
2.1.3.   Towards the end of 1972 the Bank, in response to a request from
Government for comments on the UNDP report, advised Government not to
proceed with the project because of the uncertain and weak state of the
economy, the excessive amount of suppliers credits already contracted and
the doubtful priority of the project. In January 1973, representatives of
the Canadian consortium sought the Bank's support for the project on their
way to discussions with the Government and were told the Bank did not
favour its development at that time. Shortly after this meeting the
Canadians backed out of the consortium.
2.1.4.   In spite of the Bank's repeated admonitions, and reassuring
statements from Ministers in Government that they were not likely to
proceed with the project, the Government continued to actively pursue the
matter and in the Fall of 1973 approached the Canadian Government (without
success) for a $15 million loan to cover the cost of the Bumbuna
transmission lines and substations.
2.1.5.   By February 1974 the Bank's attitude towards the project had
softened in view of the petroleum crisis and because of several major
electrical breakdowns of the Bank-financed diesel alternators in King Tom
power station. In July that year, the Bank in response to a request from
Government offered to finance consultants to bring the Bumbuna project up
to the bidding stage and also the supply of generating equipment to meet
the additional demand in the interim period. A condition of the Bank's
assistance was a long overdue increase in tariffs, and improvements in
SLEC's management. Tariffs were increased by 60% on August 1st 1974 and
the Government sacked the Board of SLEC and in October put the Corporation



- 4 -
under the direct control of a new Ministry of Energy and Power (para.
1.2). The Bank agreed in January 1975 to appraise the interim project and
in response to a request from the President of Sierra Leone also agreed to
assist the Government in finding long term finance if the Bumbuna project
appeared to be viable. Meanwhile the Government commissioned an Italian
consultant, to make a comparative study of three alternative staged
developments of the Bumbuna/Yiben sites under terms of reference agreed
with the Bank. It also entered into supplier credit contracts of about
$4.5 million for construction of access roads to the sites.
2.1.6.   The project was first appraised in April 1975 but work was
suspended on processing of this and two other projects in May when it was
found that the Government had contracted five suppliers credits totalling
about $5.6 million, contrary to an undertaking it had given the Bank a few
months earlier that it had imposed a temporary moratorium on new suppliers
credits until June 1976. One of these credits was for a power plant to
provide a substantial part of the additional load which was the basis for
justification of the interim thermal plant to be financed by the Bank.
After assurances from the Government of tighter control over development
expenditures, etc. during the Bank's annual general meeting in September,
a reappraisal mission visited Freetown in November 1975. In December, in
anticipation of a loan being presented to the Bank's Board early in 1976
the Bank raised no objection to the award of a contract for approx. $6.0
million for the urgently needed slow speed diesel, for which some
retroactive financing was included in the credit. During this period
discussions were initiated with BADEA regarding the possibility of joint
financing of the project on soft loan terms.
2.1.7.   In April 1976 a Bank mission visited Freetown for pre-negotiation
discussions and clarification of some financial issues including fuel
prices and payment of outstanding Government Accounts. Negotiations were
completed in Washington on July 30th for an IDA credit of $8.2 million on
the assumption that BADEA would provide parallel financing of $5 million
for identified portions of the project. Conditions of Board presentation
in September were that:
(a) Government and SLEC settled all outstanding claims between
them as of March 1976;
(b) tariffs were increased by 15% in August 1976 and the price
of fuel reduced so that SLEC could achieve the agreed rate
of return;
(c) the BADEA loan was available to SLEC.
Board presentation was also contingent on an agreement in
principle between the Government and IMF on a standby arrangement and
supporting stabilization program. However the negotiations for this
agreement broke down in August over the question of a proposed 25%
devaluation of the Leone.
2.1.8.   Negotiations with BADEA were satisfactorily completed in
September 1976 but Government still baulked at the steps the Bank and IMF
considered necessary to stabilize the economy and restore SLEC's financial
viability until early 1977 when tariffs were increased 15%, an oil price
increase was deferred and discussions resumed with the IMF on a
stabilization program. A Bank mission in March to update the appraisal
for the third time found that SLEC's finances had greatly improved and



-5-
recommended proceeding with Board presentation with some amendments to the
Credit documents, subject to the Government paying SLEC an outstanding
amount of about Le 1.0 million for a rural subsidy.
2.1.9.   Throughout the whole five year period of the Bank Group's
involvement in preparation of the project the Government was frequently in
arrears of up to six weeks on repayment of previous Bank loans. Several
warnings were given Government that it would not be possible to present
the power loan or credit to the Board unless action was taken to improve
its performance. The Government's failure in this respect was a major
contributary factor in the delay in preparation and appraisal of the
project, for which an $8.2 million credit was finally approved by the IDA
Board on July 12, 1977. Retroactive financing of $5.7 million was
included in the credit for the slow speed diesel ordered in December 1975
(para. 2.1.6).
2.2.     Project's Role
2.2.1.   The project was the first step in a long term plan to develop the
country's resources of renewable energy, in order to reduce its dependence
on imported fuel and conserve scarce foreign exchange. Secondary
objectives were to maintain and improve reliability of supplies to
consumers in the interim until the Bumbuna project could be implemented,
and also to improve financial management of SLEC.
2.3.     Project Description
2.3.1.   The project, including the portion financed by a BADEA loan of
US$ 5 million, comprised:
Part A: The installation of a 9.2 MW diesel-electric generator
at the King Tom power station including auxiliary
facilities.
Part B: Measures to prevent electric generator outages at the
King Tom power station by (i) hiring of a specialist to
study the causes of such outages and the electric
protection schemes of the generators and to design, and
supervise procurement and installation of additional
protective devices , and (ii) procurement and
installation of such protective devices.
Part C: The construction of the first stage of a 33 kV
distribution in the Western system.
Part D: The installation of a 1,000 kW diesel-electric generator
at Makeni, one 500 kW diesel-electric generator at Lungi
and eight 100 kW diesel-electric generators in other
provincial centers to be determined by agreement with
the Association.
Part E: (1) The employment of consultants to: (i) procure, plan
and supervise the construction or installation for Parts
A, C and D above; (ii) prepare a master plan for the
further electrification of provincial areas; and (iii)
strengthen SLEC's financial management and accounting
procedures.
(2) Purchase of data processing equipment for SLEC.



- 6 -
Part F:  The employment of consultants to: (i) complete the
feasibility study of Bumbuna hydroplant; (ii) design the
first stage of such plant to the detail required for the
preparation of tender documents for the main items of
equipment and civil works; and (iii) to prepare such
tender documents.
2.3.2.   The IDA credit financed Parts A, F, E (2) and that portion of
E (1) (i) related to Part A. Parts C, D and E were intended to provide
the basis for development of latent electrical demand in the country on
which the future justification of the Bumbuna project would depend. Part
E (1) (iii)was intended to turn SLEC into a financially viable autonomous
Government-owned corporation.
2.3.3.   Of the $8.2 million credit, $7.1 million was relent to SLEC under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement at 8.5% repayable over 20 years including a 4
1/2 year grace period. The BADEA loan to Government was relent to SLEC at
8.5% interest, the principal sum being repayable over 15 years including a
grace period of 5 years.
3.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION AND COST
3.1.     Conditions of Effectiveness
3.1.1.   Apart from the usual requirements for execution and ratification
of the Project Agreement, BADEA Loan Agreement and Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the following special conditions for effectiveness were
included in the Credit Agreement:
(i) Appointment of a Sierra Leonian counterpart to the Head of
the Generation Department.
(ii) Appointment of financial consultants to strengthen SLEC
financial management and accounting procedures.
(iii) Payment to SLEC of the annual subsidy due as compensation
for the financial losses incurred by SLEC in respect of its
provincial operations in the fiscal year ending March 31,
1977.
3.1.2.   Financial Consultants were appointed in September and the
provincial subsidy paid. The position of counterpart to the Chief
Generation Engineer had to be advertised as there were no suitable
candidates in SLEC. Confirmation of the appointment was received on the
28th February 1978.
3.1.3.   There were other factors which delayed effectiveness.    Firstly
the Government had agreed in negotiations not to increase the price of
fuel to SLEC before December 31st, 1977 and thereafter to charge no more
than the world market price as determined on a basis to be agreed with
IDA. Although this is incorporated in the Credit Agreement, the price was
increased on July 1st, 1977 just prior to presentation of the credit to
the IDA Board and again on January 1st, 1978 without reference to IDA.
Confirmation that Government would rectify these breaches of the covenant
and reimburse SLEC no later than May 1, 1978 for the cost of the increase
was not received by IDA until March 22nd, 1978. Secondly, it became
apparent during the visit to Washington of a Sierra Leonian delegation in



- 7 -
February 1978 that the Government had failed to disclose all its external
debts to IDA. In fact three suppliers credits totalling nearly $15
million for Kissy Oil Jetty, Colour Television and a Satellite Earth
Station were obtained after June 30th, 1977 without informing IDA. These
matters were finally clarified and the credit declared effective on March
29th, 1978. However, Government did not reimburse SLEC for the increased
price of oil as they had promised to do.
3.2.     Changes in Project
3.2.1.   In the course of the financial consultants work, it was found
that additional financial technical assistance was required to strengthen
SLEC's accounting department and bring the Corporations accounts up to
date. $150,000 of the $200,000 provided in the credit for purchase of
data processing equipment was therefore reallocated with IDA's approval to
financial technical assistance and a separate consultancy agreement
entered into for this work. This was the only major change in the
project.
3.2.2.   There were some minor additions to the main contract for supply
and erection of the diesel generator. These included provision of two
sump pumps, two daily service fuel tanks and changes in the neutral
earthing arrangements. In the case of the civil contract, there were
additions in respect of sea water ducts, access roads, ceramic tiling of
the power house, remote control of ventilating louvres and an increase in
the size of the power station building.
3.3.     Implementation Schedule
A. IDA Financed Portion of the Project
3.3.1.   Extension of King Tom Power Station
Engine foundations were completed on time but changes in
dimension of the building, and delay in delivery of steelwork due to the
consignment being mislaid in transit, resulted in a twelve months delay in
completion of the building until September 1978. The 9.2MW 150rpm
Diesel/alternator was commissioned four months late on September 8th,
1978. Delay was caused partly by late arrival of the suppliers erection
staff, but mainly because erection work had to be suspended to enable a
major emergency repair to be undertaken on the adjoining No. 3 machine.
The restricted space and the fact that the overhead crane was in constant
use on the repair made it impracticable to do both jobs at the same
time. Engineering consultancy for this part of the project was provided
by SLEC's management consultants.
3.3.2.   Data Processing Equipment
The installation of this equipment was deferred pending the
outcome of the financial consultants recommendations for reorganization of
the accounts (see para. 3.2.1.). Work on the financial technical
assistance to which the funds were reallocated started in August 1981 and
was completed in March 1982.



- 8 -
3.3.3.   Preparation of Bumbuna Project
The establishment of the Bumbuna Development Committee with the
composition called for under Section 3.03 (a) of the Credit Agreement was
completed prior to the loan becoming effective, but the appointment of an
executive engineer was not made until early 1979.
3.3.4.   Draft terms of reference for the Feasibility Study and the Design
Study up to and including preparation of bidding documents were prepared
by IDA and sent to the Government in July, 1977. Although Government
protested at the extent of detail and what they deemed some duplication of
effort, only minor changes were made following further discussions with
IDA. The Consultancy Agreement for revision of the Feasibility Study,
design studies and preparation of bidding documents was signed on August
18, 1978, and the consultants started work in December. From the start of
this contract, the consultants had great difficulty in obtaining payment
for work done. The down payment of Sw.Fr 550.000 (about $300,000) due at
contract signing, was not paid until ten months later in June, 1979. IDA
funds were exhausted by March 1980 before the completion of the work. The
revision of the Feasibility Study was scheduled for completion in June,
1979 but in fact was not completed until November, 1980 with additional
funds provided from the OPEC Special Fund (see para. 3.5.4.). During the
course of this work it was found that none of the three sequences being
investigated (para. 2.1.5.) showed a clear economic advantage over the
others. Since there could be considerable differences between the
financial costs and benefits, and the scheme was large in relation to the
existing load and estimated growth of demand it was deemed prudent to
refine the financial costs of the alternatives. At the suggestion of IDA
therefore, all three alternatives were developed to full feasibility
status, resulting in an increase of about 60% in time charges for
consultants services. Other additions included studies of downstream
effects on agriculture, sedimentation, higher storage levels and a
transmission line to SEFADU. In addition, a descriptive summary was
prepared and 200 copies printed for a potential donors meeting. Work on
detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents proceeded until
October 1981 although no payments had been made on invoices submitted
since OPEC funds were exhausted during February. At this point, with
about three months work required to complete the civil engineering bid
documents, the consultants stopped work until the outstanding invoices
were paid. Apart from delays caused by inability to get payment during
the latter part of their work, the very considerable additions to the
consultants tasks during the course of the work, particularly for the
Feasibility Study; all contributed to a prolongation of the consultants
contract.
3.3.5.   In June, 1982, IDA approved a credit No. 1265-SL to the newly
formed National Power Authority, which included additional funds for
completion of this part of the project. The credit became effective on
December 3, 1982 and the bidding documents originally scheduled for
completion in March, 1980 (later changed to end of June 1981 under an
amending agreement signed on December 15th, 1980), are now expected to be
completed by mid 1983 after review of a comparison with an alternative
hydro project on the Mano River which forms the frontier between Sierra
Leone and Liberia.



- 9 -
B. BADEA Financed Portion of the Project
3.3.6.   33KV Distribution First Stage
Work on this part of the project did not start until February
1981 due to prolonged and unnecessary delays in the bidding process (para.
3.4.4.). It was completed in May 1982 after a delay of several months due
to the Government failing to pass on to SLEC the foreign exchange provided
by BADEA to pay outstanding invoices for DM.240,000 in respect of work
already done.
3.3.7.   Generating Units for the Provinces
Fourteen bidders were prequalified for the supply of eight 100KW
units complete with switchgear and auxiliaries to be installed by SLEC's
engineering staff. No problems were experienced and the contract was
awarded in mid-1979. All units were installed by mid-1980, seven of them
at Bonthe, Kabala, Kailahun, Kambia, Moyambe, Pujehun and Rokupr. The
eighth unit was mounted on a trailer for use as a mobile emergency unit.
One unit originally intended for Magburaka was not installed as additional
supplies were obtained from Makeni by 33KV O/H line.
3.3.8.   There was a delay of about four months in placing the order for
the three 500KW units due to a disagreement between SLEC's consultants and
BADEA with regard to the evaluation of bids. SLEC on the advice of their
consultants proposed to award the contract to a German firm whose offer
did not meet the specification and whose price was about 7% higher than
that of the lowest bidder. The reason given was that the lowest bidder
had not submitted a bid bond or comparative payment schedule and would not
guarantee delivery date. The contract was eventually awarded to the
lowest bidder in November 1979 for delivery in May 1980. There has since
been a long delay in obtaining the local currency from the Ministry of
Development for the building of engine foundations. These foundations
were under construction at Koidu and Port-Loko in August 1982, the Makene
foundation having been built under a separate contract for an entirely new
station housing two other machines. The supplier's erector was expected
shortly thereafter to erect the two machines at Koidu and Port Loko and
all three machines were expected to be commissioned in October 1982. Two
of these units were originally intended for Lungi (Freetown International
Airport) and the third for Makeni. However, because of the protracted
delay in ordering, the Government obtained and installed two 500KW
machines on short delivery from Germany and installed them before the
machines ordered under the credit arrived. The latter were therefore
diverted to Port-Loko and Koidu where demand already exceeds the installed
capacity.
3.3.9.   Measures to Prevent Generator Outages at King Tom Power Station
SLEC's inhouse management consultants selected a suitable
protection engineer from a German electrical utility to undertake the
consulting work on the King Tom protection system. Approval of IDA for
the person selected was applied for in accordance with the Project
Agreement and subsequently from BADEA. For some unexplained reason final
approval from BADEA was not obtained until 18 months after the application



- 10 -
was sent to IDA, by which time the engineer selected was no longer
available. An approach to the Electricity Supply Board of Ireland (ESB)
was then made and a quotation of $40,000 received, which SLEC considered
excessive. On the advice of an IDA supervision mission in November 1981,
NPA negotiated a contract with ESB for the work.
3.3.10. Consultants Services
The relatively small amount of consulting services required for
the extension of the 33KV distribution and the extension of provincial
generating stations was provided by SLEC's management consultants as part
of their in-house consultancy. The same consultants also prepared a
master plan for development of the provincial centers. Financial
assistance was provided by a UK consulting firm whose appointment was a
condition of effectiveness for the credit.
3.4.     Procurement
3.4.1.   Procurement of those items of the project financed by IDA was
carried out in general accordance with the Banks Guidelines for
Procurement and under the supervision of IDA. Only two equipment
contracts were involved; these were:
(a) Civil works covering supply and erection of steelwork, etc.
for the power house building and provision of foundations for the building
and diesel engine.
(b) Supply and erection of one slow speed Diesel Generator of
about 9MW complete with all auxiliaries switchgear and ancillary
equipment.
3.4.2.   Bidding documents were purchased on March 15, 1975 by eight
firms, four of whom submitted bids; two for civil works and two for the
Diesels. Bidders were required to state their bids in Leones, indicating
the amount of payment required in their own currency and the exchange rate
to the Leone on which their bids were based. Bids were opened on July 1,
1975. One civil and one Diesel bid were from Germany and one civil and
one Diesel bid were from Switzerland. Bids were evaluated by SLEC's
consultants using the currency exchange rates in force on the bid opening
day and a recommendation for award of contract made to Government in
September 1975. Letters of intent were issued in December 1975 to the
Swiss bidder for one 9.2MW, 150 rpm Diesel generator and ancillary
equipment and to the Sierra Leone associate of the Swiss civil engineering
firm for the civil works. It is of interest to note that in the
evaluation of bids for the diesel generator, the Swiss bid was 6.5A below
the German bid but with the subsequent movements in exchange rates the
German machine would have been cheaper than the Swiss machine.
3.4.3.   Procurement of consultants was not required in the case of the
King Tom extension since the work was done by SLEC's in-house management
consultants. In the case of the Bumbuna studies IDA indicated that it
would have no objection to Government employing the Italian consultant who
carried out the original comparison of the BUMBUNA/YIBEN alternatives
(para. 2.1.5.) as consultants for the additional Bumbuna studies provided
they were associated with another consultant of international repute
acceptable to IDA who would take the leading part in the design studies.



- 11 -
IDA subsequently concurred with the borrowers choice of Bumbuna -ydro-
Consultants, a consortium specifically created for this job, composed of
the Italian and Swiss consultants previously involved in the Rumbuna
studies and three Sierra Leonian consulting firms who had also been
involved in studies of the Bumbuna development.
3.4.4.   Procurement for those parts of the project financed by BADEA was
by international competitive bidding according to BADEA rules. BADEA
refused to finance the preparation of a master plan for development of the
provincial areas and engineering of the 33KV distribution by SLEC's in-
house consultants, because there was no international competition. In the
case of the contract for supply and erection of the 33KV distribution,
SLEC's consultants originally advertised this contract, estimated by them
to cost Le 1.9 million, in only one local paper in Freetown and one German
paper. Three bids were received - all from German firms. In July 1978,
the consultants submitted their evaluation recommending the award to one
of the three for Le 3.6 million. BADEA refused to finance the contract on
the grounds that bidding was not international. SLEC consultants after
prolonged and unnecessary delays then invited new bids following
prequalification in April/May 1979 with widespread international
advertising. Twenty-six firms applied for prequalification of whom 19
were approved. Bids were opened on October 15, 1979 and the contract
awarded with BADEA's approval to a German firm for Le 1.95 million in
January 1980.
3.5.     Costs and Disbursements
Extension of King Tom Station
3.5.1.   In the case of the main contract for supply and erection of the
Diesel Alternator, 97% of the contract price was payable in Swiss Francs
and 3% in Leones. The actual price paid in Swiss Francs was 1.2% above
the bid price due to the addition of some minor items (para. 3.2.2.)
costing Sw.Fr.175,000 and a charge of Sw.Fr.20,000 for delay in
commissioning due to the repair of No. 3 machine (para. 3.3.1.).
3.5.2.   In the case of the civil contract actual cost exceeded the bid
price by 8% due to the additions mentioned in para. 3.2.2. Fifty-six per
cent of the contract price was payable in Swiss Francs and fourty-four per
cent in Leones.
3.5.3.   In total the foreign cost in Swiss Francs was 1.6% above the bid
price and local costs 8.4% above bid price, due almost entirely to the
additional items mentioned in para. 3.2.2. There were however large
changes in the exchange rates between the Swiss Franc and the US Dollar
and Leone in the interval between appraisal and disbursements. At the
time of appraisal in April 1977 the exchange rate was assumed to be
Sw.Fr.2.5 to $1.00 whereas during the disbursement period July 1978 to
April 1979 the rate varied between Sw.Fr. 1.5 and Sw.Fr. 1.8 to $1.00.
Since 90% of the disbursements were in Swiss Francs there was an increase
of 38% in the dollar cost of the extension of King Tom Power Station
although at the appraisal estimate rates of exchange the cost was 13% less
than the estimates. The following table compares the total actual and
estimated costs of the KinR Tom extension.



- 12 -
APPRAISAL                   ACTUAL COST
ESTIMATED COST               IN $ (MILLION)
At           At Dis-
Appraisal      bursement
million    million       Exchange       Exchange
Le         $            Rates          Rates
Equipment                    7.20      6.20           6.28            8.87
Civil Works                  1.05       .90           0.99           1.29
Engineering                  0.63      0.54           0.45            0.52
Pro rata Physical            0.86      0.74             -              -
contingency
Pro rata Price               0.62      0.53             -              -
contingency
TOTAL                       10.37      8.91           7.72           10.68
3.5.4.   Since it was apparent shortly after the IDA credit was approved
that the foreign exchange costs would exceed the amount of the credit, the
Government, in May 1979, obtained from the OPEC Special Fund a loan
repayable over 20 years including 4 years grace at no interest, but with a
3/4% service charge, to cover the estimated increase in cost of the King
Tom diesel generator and civil works ($0.533 million), and also overruns
on the cost of the Bumbuna consultants ($1.067 million). IDA agreed to
act as executing agent for the OPEC Special Fund for this loan. Annex 2
shows the amounts disbursed from the IDA credit and OPEC loan. The
balance of $3.29 million equivalent including $2.72 million equivalent in
foreign exchange for the King Tom extension was provided by the
Government. The total cost per KW installed was $1161 which is about
average for an installation of this type installed at that time.
3.5.5.   Bumbuna Hydro Project Preparation
The first appraisal mission in April 1975 estimated the foreign
exchange cost of the Consultant's Feasibility and Design studies for
Bumbuna at US $1.2 million. This figure was revised in November 1975
following discussions with the Government to US $1.7 million, made up as
follows:



- 13 -
Million
US$
Completion of
Comparative Studies
(Feasibility)                  0.11
Project Preparation
(Design & Tender Docs)         1.39
1.50
Contingencies                  0.14
Escalation                     0.06
Total                          1.70
The figure of $1.39 million for project preparation was reduced to $0.8
million in the May 1977 appraisal report because by then the Government
had already signed a contract for a drilling program at the site which was
financed from a private Italian source.
3.5.6.   By March 1978 it was apparent from the Consultants detailed
estimates of man months required to fulfill the terms of reference (para.
3.3.4.) that the funds provided in the credit would be insufficient.
Discussions with the Consultants reduced the estimated time required from
24 months to 18 months but still left a financial gap of about Sw.Fr. 1.3
million (about US$ 0.7 million) for completion of the Feasibility Study
and Sw.Fr. 0.5 million (about US$ 0.3 million) for the Design Study. The
OPEC loan (para. 3.5.4.) was intended to fill this gap. The reason for
the increase, given at the time, was that it was due to the appreciation
of the Swiss Franc increasing the cost of the Swiss component of the
consultants consortium formed on the recommendation of IDA in April 1977
(para. 3.4.3.), but whilst this accounted for part of the increase the
main reason was the additional studies the consultants were asked to
undertake.
3.5.7.   The additional work and the problems encountered by the
Consultants (para. 3.3.4.) resulted in an increase of 112% in the charges
for man months employed on the Feasibility Study, and about 74% for the
Design stage up to the time when the Consultants ceased work in October
1981, when compared with the consultants main contract signed in August
1978. The consultants estimate about another 55% increase in man months
charges will be required to complete the Design and tender documents
including prequalification of contractors, making an increase over the
estimated man months of about 129% for the Design Stage. In total, the
charges for time spent, and to be spent on the Feasibility Study and the
Design Stage are estimated to be about 225% of the original estimates.
3.5.8.   The total cost of the Feasibility and Design stages up to
preparation of bid documents and prequalification of contractors is now



- 14 -
estimated to be Sw.Fr. 8,137,969 of which Sw.Fr. 6,847,373 has already
been incurred. In terms of US Dollars already disbursed ($2,364,925) and
yet to be disbursed, this amounts in total to about $4.4 million compared
with the original estimate of $1.1 million. About $1.2 million of the
increase can be attributed to appreciation of the Swiss Franc which varied
from 2.6 to the dollar at the time of the original estimates to as low as
1.5 to the dollar during the period of actual disbursements. The $2.1
million balance of the excess is due to the time spent on refining the
alternatives to arrive at an optimal financial solution, and additional
studies requested by the Borrower, mainly on the advice of IDA, during the
course of the work. Since decisions with regard to selection of the least
cost alternative should be based on economic considerations, and not
financial considerations, it is difficult to see the justification for
this additional delay and expense.
3.5.9.   Disbursements
Some difficulty was experienced at the start of the project due
to the unreliability of the mails causing delays in receipt of authorized
signatures and applications for disbursement. Although the credit became
effective on 29th March 1978 the large retroactive payment of $5.7 million
for the King Tom Diesel was not made until 22nd July 1978. Thereafter
applications were received and paid promptly and this part of the IDA
credit was fully disbursed by 16th February 1979. There was also a delay
in commencing disbursements for the Bumbuna Consultants, a precondition
for which was appointment of a Bumbuna Development Committee and an
Executive Engineer. The Committee was appointed before the credit became
effective but it was not until June 1979 that IDA was able to obtain
confirmation that an executive engineer, whose curriculum vitae had been
approved by IDA in March, had been appointed. Although this delayed the
down payment of Sw.Fr. 555,000 to the consultants until 19th June 1979, it
did not delay the start of the consultants work. However, the IDA funds
were exhausted by September 1980 from which date disbursement of OPEC
funds began, until these too were exhausted in May 1981. At this point
since the Government was unable to meet the consultants bills the work
slowed down and finally came to a complete stop in October 1981. A
schedule of actual disbursements compared with estimated disbursements at
the time of IDA Board presentation is given in Annex 3. Disbursements
were suspended for 2 1/2 months in February 1981 on all loans and credits
to Sierra Leone because of long overdue service payments totalling over
$800,000.
3.6.     Operations
3.6.1.   Commercial operation of the extension to King Tom Power Station
was achieved on 8th September 1978, four months after the scheduled
completion date. The reasons for the delay are given in paragraph
3.3.1. The 9.2MW slow speed diesel unit has given satisfactory
performance from the time of commissioning, under arduous conditions of
long running hours, heavy loads and dirty fuel. However, there has been
some exceptionally rapid deterioration of the scavenge air cooler tubes
and sea water circulating pumps. The trouble appears to be due to
unsuitable materials having been used in manufacture. The suppliers are



- 15 -
holding replacement parts manufactured from corrosion proof material, but
will not deliver until the Government settles outstanding payments due on
installation of a second slow speed unit commissioned in 1980.
3.6.2.   The eight 10OKW units for the provincial centers were
commissioned early in 1979 having been delayed about 9 months on account
of the delay in the credit becoming effective (paras. 3.1.1 - 3.1.3.).
These units have given satisfactory mechanical performance but have had
trouble with printed circuits on the protection and alarm wiring, and on
their governors. In the three years since commissioning, circuits on 4
protection units and 2 governors have had to be replaced in spite of the
fact that most of these units are running only 12 to 16 hours a day
because of SLEC's inability to find the money to purchase adequate fuel
supplies. The three 500KW units were not expected to be commissioned
until October 1982 for the reasons given in para. 3.3.8.
3.6.3.   The 33 KV distribution was not completed until May, 1982,
approximately 2 1/2 years later than scheduled in the appraisal report,
for the reasons given in para. 3.3.4., but within five months of the
contract date. It is still not in operation at the time of writing
because of a defect in the differential protection. There has been no
operating experience to date.
3.7.     Performance of Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers and Borrower
3.7.1.   Consultants
In the case of Bumbuna the consultants performance was
satisfactory. Considering the difficulty they experienced in trying to
get payment, both before their part of the IDA credit became effective,
and after the IDA and OPEC funds were exhausted, they deserve credit for
having brought the studies and preparation to within a few months of the
bidding stage. Very little consulting was involved in the King Tom
extension. There were only two contracts, i.e. a civil contract for the
building and foundations and a supply-and-erect turnkey contract for the
engine and mechanical and electrical auxiliaries. No problems were
experienced. Since the consultants were the same firm which supplied the
senior management team for operating SLEC, their relations with the
Borrower were good. Their performance in the bidding for the 33KV
distribution was however less than satisfactory (para. 3.4.4.). It was
equally unsatisfactory as regards the assistance they gave their
management team in connection with the purchase of the 500KW provincial
units (para. 3.3.8.). Whilst some of their initial failings might be
attributed to lack of familiarity with international lending institutions
requirements they appear to have had great difficulty in understanding
communications with BADEA, even to the point of being obstructive, with
the result that there were unreasonable delays in purchase of equipment.
However, in preparing the master plan for development of the provincial
centers they did a good job. The financial consultants did an excellent
job under somewhat adverse circumstances due to lack of support (or even
interest) from SLEC's management in the early stages because of the
latter's almost total preoccupation with trying to maintain electricity
supplies while handicapped with inadequate supplies of fuel and spare
parts.



- 16 -
3.7.2.   Contractors
No problems were experienced with the contractors for the
extension of King Tom Power Station and the provincial generating units.
In the case of the 33KV Distribution, delays arose only because of non-
payment for work completed; but the standard of workmanship was
satisfactory on the whole.
3.7.3.   Suppliers
Equipment supplied was generally to specification and delivered
on the due dates. Only in the case of the printed circuits on the 100 rw
units and the scavange air and water cooling arrangements of the slow
speed diesel (para. 3.6.1.) did the equipment not measure up to the
standards of reliability required and SLEC is taking this up with the
manufactures.
3.7.4.   The Borrower
Most of the difficulties experienced with this project were due
to the failure of the Government to comply with the terms of its
agreements, not only with IDA and BADEA, but also with the consultants,
with SLEC and with SLEC's suppliers. The Government's failure in some
cases seems to have originated from an acute shortage of foreign exchange
due to its heavy commitment to short-term loans and suppliers credits.
However the failure to meet the covenants with regard to provincial sub-
sidies, price of fuel to SLEC, which was increased to 70% above the market
price, tariff increases and day to day autonomy of SLEC's management all
seem to indicate a lack of understanding of the problems involved, some of
which it had itself created. There also appears to have been a failure of
communications within the Government which may be largely attributable to
frequent changes of ministers and senior civil servants.
4.       OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.1.     SLEC's Performance
4.1.1.   The expected improvement in SLEC's performance did not
materialize. The main reasons for this failure were, inability to recruit
and retain suitably qualified staff, especially in the accounting
departments, and a chronic cash shortage which got worse over the years
due to the Government policy of keeping electricity prices unchanged
whilst approving increases in the price of fuel to SLEC, to subsidise the
uneconomic operations of the oil refinery in Freetown. The result of the
cash shortage was that SLEC became almost entirely dependent on Government
handouts to meet its fuel bills. Because of its bad record for non-
payment of fuel bills, the oil companies refused credit, making it
impossible for SLEC to enter into any long term agreements for supplies of
fuel. Since the Government only provided SLEC with enough money at one
time to purchase a week's supply of fuel and SLEC's revenue was barely
sufficient to meet salaries and wages and other operating costs, much of
the top management's time was spent each week in trying to get money from
Government and the customers in order to pay bills and organize fuel
deliveries. A secondary effect of this hand to mouth existence was



- 17 -
overloading of the fuel cleaning equipment resulting in dirty fuel getting
into the engines due to the amount of sludge being drawn off with fuel
from the bottom of the storage tanks. In the first half of 1982 Freetown
was without supplies of electricity for periods of more than 24 hours on
three occasions due to running out of fuel. To make matters worse,
because of Government's failure to allocate the required foreign exchange,
SLEC has been unable to obtain essential spare parts and materials from
equipment suppliers for a period of about two years. In some cases such
as the suppliers of the main generators and diesel engines at King Tom
power station, supplier3 refuse to accept new orders until payments have
been received for past services or deliveries. One 6.6 KVA generator has
been out of service for a period of one year with a burnt out stator
winding which the manufacturer refuses to repair until paid DM 240,000
outstanding for a similar repair completed in 1974. In one recent case a
cable supplying a residential district of Freetown was severed by a road
building contractor, and since SLEC had no spare cable, repairs could not
be undertaken until the contractor had a short-length of new cable flown
in from the suppliers, using his own source of foreign exchange.
4.1.2.   As a result of management's almost total preoccupation with
trying to maintain supplies of electricity in the extremely difficult
circumstances created by the Government, it is not surprising that the
financial consultants complained of a lack of support from management in
their attempts to improve the corporations accounts and financial
management.
4.1.3.   In spite of the enormous difficulties facing them, the management
consultants team managed in the last twelve months of their contract to
bring about some marked improvements, particularly in the field of
management information systems, cash collections and removal of illegal
connections. On the engineering side this was made possible by the
increasingly active participation of the Sierra Leonian counterpart
management staff. On the financial side however, progress has been
retarded so far by the inability of SLEC to attract and retain suitably
qualified counterparts and lower level staff.
4.1.4.   This failure to achieve the desired improvements in management of
SLEC was not due to any lack of provisions in the credit agreements, but
almost entirely due to actions taken or not taken by Government contrary
to the terms of the agreements (para. 3.7.4.). Failure to meet the
principal objective of completing the preparation of the Bumbuna project
was due to the acute shortage of foreign exchange with which to pay the
consultants, brought on mainly by the Government's inability to exercise
restraint in short term borrowing and suppliers credits at a time when the
economy was already in poor shape.
5.       FINANCIAL PERFUORMANCE
5.1.     Financial Results
5.1.1.   Annual accounts were not prepared by SLEC for fiscal years 1976
through 1978 but a statement of affairs was prepared as at March 31, 1978,
the end of the fiscal year, to form the basis of the annual accounts for



- 18 -
FY79 and subsequent years. Income statements, funds flow statements and
balance sheets for FY79 through FY82 showing the actual results achieved
compared to the appraisal estimates are shown in Annex 8.
5.1.2.   Rates of return on net fixed assets in operation (at historic
cost) which had been estimated at the time of appraisal to average 12%
annually over the four year period FY79-82, only achieved an average of 4%
over the years. Reasons for the poor performance were first, energy sales
did not grow as quickly as expected and by FY82, at 112 GWh were 15% lower
than the appraisal estimate of 139 GWh for that year and second SLEC was
not allowed to increase tariffs as necessary to meet the fuel and other
operating costs which increased due to the fuel crisis and inflation.
Revenues were, however, maintained at about the levels forecast for FY81
and 82 due to Government's subvention to SLEC for the operation of
uneconomic provincial stations being much higher than estimated for those
years. Average tariff levels for FY82 at Le 0.125/kWh (US cents 9.61)
were about 8% below the appraisal estimate and operating costs were 10%
above the estimate of Le 15.8 (US $ 12.1) million made during appraisal.
5.1.3.   The reduced earnings and higher than expected investment in
working capital, resulted in SLEC making no contribution to construction
expenditures in the period FY79-82. Working capital increased at a
greater rate than expected due to poor collection of energy receivables
and long delays in payment by Government of the oil and provincial
subsidies to which SLEC considered it was entitled under the Credit
(Section 4.07) and other agreements. Government accepted responsibility
for the provincial subventions but not for the oil subsidies. The
subventions, government electricity bills and other amounts due to SLEC
were partially settled by offsetting debt service and other payments made
on SLEC's behalf, with Government paying only the minimum amount necessary
to cover SLEC's day-to-day cash operating expenditures including salaries
and fuel oil bills. SLEC was therefore always short of cash and unable to
operate effectively even with maximum use of available bank overdraft
facilities.
5.1.4.   Despite these problems, SLEC was technically solvent at the end
of FY82 as the operations and development expenditures were kept within
the resources available by neglecting maintenance, reducing inventories
and curtailing system expansion to inadequate levels. The debt/equity
ratio was 41/59 largely due to greater than expected Government equity
contributions toward construction expenditures, which were about the level
anticipated at appraisal for the four year period. The current ratio was
2.0 for FY82, a satisfactory level.
5.2.     Financial Covenants
5.2.1.   SLEC complied with none of the financial covenants included in
the Project Agreement during the implementation period, although efforts
have been made recently by the Government and SLEC to comply with them in
the context of a new credit No. 1265 for preparation of the Bumbuna
project. Audited accounts were not produced for FY76 and FY77 but were
produced as a statement of affairs for 1978 followed by audited accounts
for each subsequent year. Adequate tariff increases were not granted
(Section 4.03), assets have not yet been revalued (Section 4.04) but the



- 19 -
revaluation is expected to be completed early in 1983. For these reasons
SLEC was not able to comply with the rate of return covenant (Section
4.03) which provided for a 10% rate of return on historic net assets and
also for a rate of return (not less than 8% on a revalued base) to be
agreed following completion of the assets revaluation. The situation
illustrates the lack of financial management that prevailed in SLEC during
the early years of the project implementation period, a lack that led to
little or no attention being paid to the financial covenants despite the
efforts of supervision missions. The covenants were appropriate and
worthwhile as the dialogue with Government eventually led to understanding
of the covenant objectives and to a substantial intention to comply,
following the completion of the project.
6.       INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.1.     Management and Organizational Effectiveness
6.1.1.   At the time of negotiations the day to day business of the
corporation had been under the direction and control of the Minister for a
period of about three years (para. 1.2.) during which time the expatriate
General Manager from the consultants team had gradually lost authority
over all except the most trivial routine operational matters. This
situation was recognized by IDA as being unsatisfactory but it was unable
during the negotiations to persuade the Government to amend the 1974 Act
so as to restore the autonomy of the Corporation. Instead, an assurance
was obtained that the General Manager would be allowed to fully and
effectively exercise his executive and management responsibilities
(Section 4.1, Annex 4 page 3). In practice this meant no change, and
partly because of frequent changes in the Minister, matters deteriorated
until by 1981 the Corporation was near to a total collapse, both
physically and financially. The Government in July 1982 has at last taken
steps to arrest the deterioration by creating a National Power Authority
(NPA) under legislation providing the authority with a high degree of
autonomy, and an independent Board of Directors. At the same time steps
have been taken to make it financially viable by lowering the price of
fuel by 40% to the free market price,and increasing tariffs by 75%.
Provided the Government now allows the Board of NPA to exercise the
authority given to it under the law, there is every reason to expect that
the management and efficiency of the sector will improve.
6.2.     Organization and Staffing
6.2.1.   The organization of SLEC follows the conventional pattern for
power utilities of its size and is adequate for the purpose, provided
suitably trained and experienced staff are available. The five man
consultants team appointed in 1974 (para. 1.2.) was supposed to train
Sierra Leonian counterparts to take over from the expatriates after some
years. Three appointments of engineering counterparts had been made
before negotiation of the IDA credit and appointment of a fourth
(generation engineer) was made a condition of effectiveness. All these
counterparts have taken over the responsibilities of their mentors in the
early part of 1982, and are performing satisfactorally. No suitable
candidate could be found to fill the post of counterpart to the financial
controller, nor has it been possible to find a Sierra Leonian to fill the



- 20 -
post of Chief Accountant. Both these functions are performed by the one
remaining expatriate on the SLEC staff. New financial procedures,
requiring changes in the accounting organization have been recommended by
the financial consultants, and these are being introduced.
6.2.2.   The number of staff employed, which was considered to be
excessive at the time of appraisal, especially at the lower paid levels,
is still high in relation to the number of consumers. However, there has
lee.i a steady fall in the rate of increase over the past four years from
11% in 1978 to less than 1% in 1981. The ratio of consumers to staff is
now about 33 to 1 excluding the 31 staff employed in operating the
fourgovernment installations on an agency basis. The total number of
persons employed excluding casual labor is now 1,010 compared with 827 in
1977. An average annual increase of 5%.
6.3.     Staff Training and Development
Although under Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement, SLEC
undertook to prepare a staffing and training plan by September 30, 1978,
the plan was not prepared. The main reason for the failure to prepare the
plan was management's preoccupation with the day-to-day running of the
utility in very adverse circumstances. The objective of moving to
formalized manpower planning and training was therefore not achieved. Two
Sierra Leonean engineers from two of the Sierra Leonean firms in the
Bumbuna Hydro-Consultants consortium were however sent to Switzerland for
training under their European colleagues for a period of 11 months.
6.4.     Covenants and Sectoral Development
6.4.1.   Annex 4 details the principal covenants specifically related to
the project in the Credit and Project Agreements. SLEC complied with the
covenants of the Project Agreement except where it was prevented from
doing so by Government and with regard to the method of procurement of
consultants for the provincial development study and restriction of
numbers of staff.
6.4.2.   The Credit Agreement contained a covenant [Section 3.02(a)]
requiring SLEC to employ consultants for the preparation of a master plan
for the further electrification of provincial areas. This plan was
prepared by the management consultants and published in January 1980. It
covers a period of five years from 1980 to 1985. The estimated cost of
the developments proposed is Le 36,321,000 in 1980 prices. The plan has
not been implemented because SLEC had no funds for development. However
where it was essential to extend service, or make changes to maintain
supplies in the provincial towns, SLEC has followed the plans proposals
since 1980.
6.4.3.   The credit agreement also contained a covenant requiring the
Government to establish a Bumbuna Development Committee [Section 3.03 (a)]
until "Alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have
been made," to give general directions for the proper implementation of
the Bumbuna project. The covenant also specified the composition of the
committee. Although the Government established the committee as required
neither the committee nor their executive engineer seem to have made any



- 21 -
substantial contribution to the execution of the project. In fact there
are few references to the Committee in any of the progress reports and
files, though there are many references to directions given by IDA staff
in the course of their supervision missions following discussions on
progress of the work. The covenant therefore did not achieve the
objective and the committee's function has since (July 1982) been taken
over by the NPA.
6.4.4.   The Government did not comply with the more important covenants
regarding autonomy of management, provision of necessary foreign exchange,
increases in tariffs, stabilization of oil prices and prompt payment of
Government electricity bills.
7.       PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
7.1.     The Market for Power
7.1.1.   Comparisons between the actual GWh sold, GWh generated, maximum
demand and load factor and the forecasts in the appraisal report for the
five financial years 1978 through 1982 are given in Annex 5. Actual sales
in FY1982 are about 15% below the forecast, though in the Western System
which represents 87% of total sales, they were only about 6% below the
forecast. Of the 12,060 KW of large non-residential loads forecast for
connection in the Western System in the year 1977 through 1979 all but
2,100 KW have been connected and of these 1,700 KW are scheduled to be
connected this year, or in 1983. The drop of 25% in provincial sales is
entirely due to the restriction in operating hours at these centers,
caused mainly by lack of funds to purchase fuel. There is a considerable
latent demand in these provincial towns as indicated by the overall annual
growth of maximum demand which has averaged 9% over the past three years;
varying from 2 or 3% in some of the smaller centers such as Moyamba and
Bonthe up to 30% in the larger centers such as Makeni. Due to the
unreliability of the statistical data caused by deficiencies in the
computer on which SLEC's accounts are processed in the Government's
Central Statistical Office (CSO), and acute staff constraints in SLEC's
accounting department, a more detailed analysis by categories could not be
made.
7.1.2.   The growth in maximum demand in the Western System is shown in
Annex 5 and averaged about 9% per annum. Without the 9.2 MW diesel
supplied under the credit the demand could not have been met, and in fact
had not been met for several years prior to FY1979. In the provinces the
aggregate demand at the 14 centers supplied by SLEC grew from 640OKW to
8400KW between FY1979 and FY1982, an average rate of about 9% per annum.
However, this does not reflect the real demand. In all but three of these
centers the peak loads exceeded the firm capacities of the stations even
after the commissioning of the additional ten diesel generators supplied
under the credit.
7.2.     Rate of Return
7.2.1.   The rate of return on the extension of King Tom power station by
addition of one 9.2MW unit with ancillary equipment and associated
distribution is 10% assuming the foreign exchange costs valued at 30% over



- 22 -
market prices and actual prices for costs of production and benefits from
sales up to the present time. From 1983 onwards a growth rate of 7% per
annum for sales, consistent with the average for the last five years has
been assumed. Future benefits have been calculated on incremental sales
at the recently increased tariffs, averaging 0.1925 Le/KWh compared with
0.11 Le/KWh up to December 1981, and future fuel costs are based on the
recently reduced fuel price of $193 per ton compared with $323 per ton
previously. Incremental sales attributable to the 9.2 MW unit exceed the
annual increment in total sales to the Western Area because of overdue
retirement of some old machines at the time of commissioning the new
machine.
7.2.2.   The true economic return on investment is higher than the above
calculations suggest because the rates charged have been taken as a proxy
for benefits, and underestimate the full benefits to consumers. If the
new rates yielding an average of 0.1925 Le per KWh were applied to all the
KWh sales attributable to the new unit, instead of 0.11 Le per KWh
actually obtained between FY 1979 and 1981, the rate of return would be
13.5%. Details of the cost streams used in the calculations are given in
Annex 6.
7.2.3.   The residual value of the investments in 1990 has been calculated
using straight line methods of depreciation as appears to have been done
in the appraisal report. If instead, the residual value is based on the
discounted benefits over the remaining eight years life of the No. 4 unit
at say 11%, and these are estimated at an average of 2 million Leones per
annum in current terms, then the residual value in 1990 would be 11
million Leones instead of 7.33 million. The effect of this would be to
raise the rate of return on the base case from 10% to 10.5% and for the
case using current tariffs retroactively, from 13.5% to 14%.
7.2.4.   It would not be meaningful to calculate the actual rate of return
on the investment in the provincial centers because of the reduced hours
of operation at these stations since the new units were installed. The
true benefits have not yet been obtained, and will not be obtained until
the financial situation of the NPA has improved sufficiently to enable it
to purchase the fuel required to operate these centers on a normal 24 hour
a day regime. However, even if they were working on a normal regime,
using current tariffs and costs for calculating the cost stream, the rate
of return would certainly be negative, since fuel and operating cost alone
are about equal to the average revenue of Le 0.1925 per KWh sold.
7.3.     Project Achievements
Project achievements have been dealt with elsewhere in this
report, but may be summarized as follows:
(a)  A more reliable source of power generation has been provided
in the Freetown area to replace old and worn out machines
and meet the additional demand for power up to the end of
1981.
(b)  Worn out machines have been replaced and additional capacity
added at 10 of the provincial centers enabling them to meet
increased peak demands.



- 23 -
(c) A rehabilitation and development plan for the provincial
centers has been prepared by consultants.
(d) The first stage of a 33KV distribution system in Freetown
has been constructed to reduce losses and reinforce supplies
to the industrial area.
(e) The Bumbuna Project has been brought close to the
implementation stage.
(f) SLEC's reliance on expatriates for top management has been
eliminated except for the post of financial controller.
(g) A plan for an improved system of accounts has been provided
by consultants, and financial technical assistance provided
in the project has begun to yield results as evidenced by
more timely presentation of accounts and improved
collection.
Although the physical objectives of the project have either been
achieved or will very shortly be achieved, with the exception of
improvements to the protection system at King Tom power station, the
benefits expected to follow from these developments have not yet been
achieved for the reasons given elsewhere in this report.
8.0      BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1.1.   Assessment of Borrowers Implementation Capacity
It is evident from the record of the two years delay between the
first appraisal and presentation of the credit to the IDA Board, that
there were misgivings about lending on the grounds of the country's
economic performance. Moreover the Government's disregard for negotiated
agreements, bordering on insouciance, provided ample warning that unless
important covenants were made conditions of Board presentation or
effectiveness, they were not likely to be observed. If, as would now seem
justified, the creation of an autonomous authority with an independent
Board, a tariff increase, reduction in the cost of fuel and payment of
outstanding electricity accounts had all been made conditions of
effectiveness, there would have been a very much better chance of the
project's objectives being achieved. All these matters have since been
made a condition of further lending and have been met by Government in
order to obtain a subsequent engineering credit (No. 1265 SL) to complete
those items of the project left undone, mainly completion of Bumbuna
project preparation.
8.1.2.   Assessment of Beneficiaries Implementation Capacity
With hindsight the capacity of the consultants management team to
carry out the project was overestimated by the appraisal team, and later
supervision missions found it necessary to draw the attention of the
Government to the team's inadequacies. In fact the team did little more
than provide technical engineering assistance and a chief accountant. A
team with experience in electrical utility management might have received
more respect from the Minister and been able to persuade the Government
that observance of the covenants in the agreements was in the best
interests of the Government, the public and SLEC. The approval by IDA of
a local Public Works Engineer with no experience of hydorelectric schemes
as executive engineer to the Bumbuna Development Committee was a



- 24 -
mistake. An experienced engineer in this position would probably have
reduced the work of the consultants and by giving firm direction and
assistance to their studies, saved a great deal of time and money.
8.2.     Supervision
8.2.1.   A schedule of supervision is given in Annex 7.   The average
interval between supervision missions was 7 months and over the period of
5 years three changes were made in the engineer and three in the financial
analyst responsible for supervision. It is unlikely that more frequent
supervision would have made any material improvement in project
performance. The problems with the project derived mainly from much more
fundamental problems with the Government's management of the economy.
8.2.2.   A large part of the engineering works to be constructed under the
project were completed before the loan became effective. There was
therefore relatively little engineering supervision required on the
ground. With regard to the accounting technical assistance provided under
the project, although the amount of money in the credit and the BADEA loan
for consulting services was only $470,000, or 3.6% of the total, most of
the IDA missions's time was devoted to close and detailed supervision of
this work. This was found to be necessary because of the SLEC
management's preoccupation with more urgent problems, their lack of
utility accounting experience and the lack of qualified and experienced
support staff in SLEC's accounting department.
8.3.     Working Relationships
8.3.1.   Relations between IDA staff and Government civil servants were at
all times good in spite of the long record of broken covenants and
agreements and the Government's failure to meet Bank service payments
leading in early 1981 to a suspension of disbursements. Relations with
SLEC were not so good at times, particularly with regard to financial
matters, for the reasons given in the preceding paragraph. Friction arose
between the financial consultants and the management consultants team
because of the latter's alleged lack of interest in financial matters and
the urgent need to introduce corrective measures. Although IDA staff
shared the consultants' frustration, and had already indicated to
Government its lack of confidence in the consultant's ability to manage
SLEC in 1979, when Government was thinking of renewing this contract,
relations at the personal level were good enough for IDA staff to act as
intermediaries in resolving difficulties between the financial consultants
and the management.
9.       CONCLUSIONS
9.1.     The project did not succeed in fully meeting any of the
objectives set out in para. 2.2. of this report. The Bumbuna project
preparation estimated in the appraisal report to cost $1.1 million in
foreign exchange is still unfinished due to lack of funds. Already $3.7
million has been spent by the consultants and another $0.7 million is
required to complete preparation up to the bidding document stage. As
regards the secondary objectives, although the necessary equipment has
been provided, the reliability of supplies has not been improved. The



- 25 -
measures recommended by the consultants for improvement of SLEC's finances
have yet to be implemented and the nucleus of a project management
organization for Bumbujna has not materialized.
9.2.     The reasons for the failure were primarily lack of foreign
exchange due to the Government's overcommittment on short term borrowing
in a period of economic depression, and bad management of SLEC under the
direction of the Ministry of Energy and Power. Both these weaknesses were
well known to IDA management at the time the credit was made and the
question arises as to whether the covenants were adequate to ensure the
fulfillment of the projects objectives and whether in the light of the
Government's past record it was reasonable to expect that they would
observe them. The prevailing judgement at the time was evidently that
this was the best that could be obtained, but recent experience with
Engineering Credit 1265 seems to indicate that this may not have been the
case.
9.3.     As a minimum IDA should have refused to make the credit available
unless the following measures were first put into effect:
(a) Government recreated an autonomous corporation and combined
the Ministry of Energy and Power with some other Ministry
such as Industry to distract it from preoccupation with
SLEC's day to day management.
(b) Tariffs were adjusted to a level which would make SLEC
financially viable.
(c) All outstanding debts between SLEC and Government were
settled in one way or another.
(d) The price of fuel to SLEC was reduced to the free market
price in Freetown Harbour.
All these steps have recently been taken by Government in a
period of even greater economic stringency, in order to obtain credit 1265
SL to complete the Bumbuna project preparation and undo the damage done to
SLEC's management and installations over the past five years.
9.4.     In the matter of the appointment of an engineer with no
experience of hydroelectric projects as executive to the Bumbuna
Development Committee, IDA should have provided foreign exchange for
employment of an expatriate, and insisted on recruitment of an engineer
with suitable experience.
9.5.     The main conclusion to be drawn from this project must be that it
is not in the interests of a borrower country for IDA or the Bank to waive
conditions which it perceives to be essential to the successful
utilisation of development funds, because of the sensitivities of the
Government of the day.



Annex 1
- 26 -                             Page 1 of 2
Sierra Leone Credit 734-SL
Completion Report
Provincial Towns Statistics 1978/79
Town               Max.        Annual       Load
Demand        KWh        Factor       Meters       Staff     Population
KW.       Generated         x      Connected     Employed      1979
Makeni                         450         735           19          934         36          26.800
Lungi                          506        1506           35          176         24           4.800
Port Loco & Lunsar             322        1598           57          615         37          10.500
Magburaka (est.)               190         150            9          388         27          10.300
Kabala                          98         403           47          259         24           7.800
Rokupr                           ?         160            9          113         13           5.800
Kambia                          62         258           47          166         16           5.700
Bo                            1100        5683           59         1997         72          39.400
Moyamba                        140         563           46          313          23          6.400
Bonthe                          93         312           38          248         24           6.400
Pujehun                         72         293           46          225         18           4.700
Kenema                        1440        7447           59         1990         79          31.500
Koidu                         1760        8459           56         2049         52          75.600
Kailahun                        48         180           43          233          19          7.200
Operated on an agency basis for the Go ernment
Njala                          300        1473           56            1          17
Jimmy Bargbo                    55          25            5            1           3
Koyeima                         28           32          13            1           2
Daru                            70         429           70            1         11
Totals                        6926       29706           49         9386        497
Privately owned plants supplying other consumers are situated at Marampa, Pepel, Bomba-
Gbangbama, Yengema and Tongola-Tongofield.



Annex 1
-27 -                            Page 2 of 2
Sierra Leone Credit 734-SL
Completion Report
Provincial Town Statistics
Installed Plant            Maximum D   nd         Rate of Growth
Town              No & Size       Date       Actual     Forecast       in Demand
KW        Installed    1978/ 1981   1985              %
1979  1982             Past        Future
Makeni5                        2x500W          1980      450  1000   1820       30            10
lx500          1982
Lungi                          lx380          1960       506   980   1210       25             7
lx250          1958
Port Loco & Lunsar             lx140          1961       322   400    550        8             7
lx500E          1982
Magburakao                     2x134           1951      190            o
Kabala                         lxl00           1980       98   146    250       14            10
lxl72           1979
Rakupr                         lx72 E         19980       ?     90    340       ?              7
lx100o          1980
Kambia                         2x200           1982       62   106    140       20            10
Bo5                            2xlO00         1965      1100  1300   1670        6             5
Moyamba                        2x50            1980      140   15C    260         2            7
lx22            1958
Bonthe                         lx60           1975        93   10C    220        3            10
lxlOO E         1980
Pujehun                        2x58           19680       72    8f    160         6           10
Kenema5                        3xlO00          1972     1440  190    2330        10            5
Koidu                         2lx500          1982      1760  200    2360         5            5
Kailahun                       lxloo          1982       48    91    240        27           11
o  Connected to Makeni by 33 KV line operating at 11 KV
Belongs to Rice Corporation
S Provincial Capital
 Units financed by IDA Credit 734-SL



Annex 2
- 28 -
Sierra Leone Credit 734-SL
Completion Report
Schedule of Disbursements by Category
(in U.S. Dollar Equivalents)
Estimated                      Actual Disbursements
Category             in IDA Credit
Agreement                    IDA                    OPEC
(a)  Equipment for King Tom      6.080.000                 6.354.362              533.000
(b) Civil Works for
King Tom                   550.000                   429,870
(c)  Data Processing 1/
Equipment    -             200.000                   150,000
(d) Engineering Services
for King Tom               270.000                    68,734
(2)    Project Preparation
for Bumbuna                900.000                 1,187,852            1,067,000
(3)    Unallocated                    200.000                    9,182
Total                    8.200.000                 8,200,000            1,600,000
-/ Changed to Financial Consultant's Services as purchase of Data Processing Equipment
deferred.



- 29 -                       Annex 3
Sierra Leone Credit 734-SL
Completion Report
Disbursements by Quarters
(in US$ millions)
Actual Cumulative               Appraisal             % of
IDA FY and                   Disbursements                 Estimates          Estimate
Quarter                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~for
Quarter                 IDA                OPEC               IDA               IDA
1977-78         2nd                                                   6.57
3rd                                                   7.20
4th                _                                  7.30
1978-79         1st           6.328                                   7.50               84.4
2nd            6.698                                  7.70               87.0
3rd           6.756                                   7.90               85.5
4th            7.249                                  8.20               88.4
1979-80         1st           7.384                                     _                90.0
2nd            7.540                                    _                92.0
3rd            7.714                                    _                94.1
4th            7.714                                    _                94.1
1980-81         1st           7.997                 0.948               _               97.5
2nd            7.997                1.088               _                97.5
3rd           7.997                 1.333               _                97.5
4th           8.041                 1.600               _                98.1
1981-82         1st           8.041                                     _               98.1
2nd           8.081                                     _                98.5
3rd           8.111                                                      98.9
4th            8.151                                                     99.4
1982-83         1st           8.191                                                     99.9



Annex 4
- 30 -                         Page 1 of 8
Sierra Leone Credit 734-SL
Completion Report
Principle Covenants
Credit Agreement                       Covenant                        Action Taken
Section 3.01(b)        For the purposes of Parts A through E        Agreement signed on
of the Project ,the Borrower shall          15 December 1977 on
relend the equivalent of seven million      terms agreed by ida
one hundred thousand dollars ($7,1000,000) (PARA. 2.4.3.)
out of the proceeds of the Credit to
SLEC under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and SLEC under terms and
conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association
Section 3.01(c)        Without any limitation or restriction        Government did not
upon any of its other obligations           comply.  It refused
under the Development Credit                tariff increases
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause         needed and failed to
SLEC to perform in accordance with          provide foreign
the provisions of the Project               exchange needed to
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan           obtain essential
Agreement all the obligations therein       spare parts, and
set forth, shall take and cause to be       increased price of
taken all action, including the             fuel to SLEC to 70%
provision of funds, facilities,             above the market
services and other resources,               price.
necessary or appropriate to enable
SLEC to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02(a)        Without limitation or restriction            Government partially
upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of      met this covenant by
this Agreement, the Borrower shall:         making good
deficiencies in SLEC's
(a) continue to provide SLEC with           local cash position
such annual subsidy as shall                for purchases of
compensate SLEC for the actual              fuel, etc.
financial losses, if any, on its
provincial operations calculated in
accordance with appropriate
accounting procedures acceptable to
the Association, said subsidy to be
paid not later than four months after
the end of SLEC's fiscal year; and



Annex 4
- 31 -                            Page 2 of 8
Section 3.02(b)         (b) except as the Association shall         The Government
otherwise agree, provide SLEC,              financed a number of
promptly as required, on terms              small developments
acceptable to the Association, with         but no specific
financing in foreign currency               request was made for
equivalent to approximately seven           the $700,000 in
hundred thousand dollars ($700,000)         foreign exchange
to assist SLEC in the execution of          referred to in the
its investment program other than           covenant.
the Project during the period FY 77-
80.
Section 3.03            In carrying out Part F of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) until alternative arrangements          Government complied
satisfactory to the Association shall       before credit became
have been made, establish a Bumbuna         effective.
Development Committee, with powers and
functions acceptable to the
Association, which shall include the
Vice-President of Sierra Leone, as
Chairman, and representatives from
Ministries of Energy and Power,
Labour, Works and Finance and from
SLEC and the Chamber of Commerce, as
members, to give general directions
for the proper implementation of such
Part of the Project;
(b) appoint an executive engineer,          Engineer was appointed
with qualifications, experience and         after considerable
terms and conditions of employment,         delay in May 1979.
and with powers and functions,
satisfactory to the Association, to
supervise, under the general
direction of the said Bumbuna
Development Committee, the planning
and execution of such Part of the
Project; and
(c) select and employ consultants           Consultants were
referred to in Part F of the Project,       appointed in August
with qualifications, experience and         1978.
terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association, in
accordance with the guidelines set
forth in the "Uses of Consultants of
the World Bank and its Borrowers",
dated April 1974.



Annex 4
- 32 -                                  Page 3 of 8
Section 4.01           The Borrower shall ensure that the           Government did not
General Manager who is the Chief            meet this covenant
Executive Office of SLEC may fully          and consistently
and effectively exercise his                prevented management
executive and management                    from exercising its
responsibilities.                           proper function.
The Minister of
Energy was
responsible for
almost all non-
technical decisions
even to approving
local purchase
orders.
Section 4.02           The Borrower shall not require SLEC         Government complied.
to increase the number of SLEC's
employees until an appropriate
staffing and training plan referred
to in Section 3.02 of the Project
Agreement shall have been agreed
upon between the Borrower, the
Association and SLEC.
Section 4.03(a)        The Borrower shall cause its Ministry        Initially Govt. did
of Finance to pay directly, promptly        not meet this
and fully to SLEC all future                covenant, but from
electricity bills for all of its            1979 it met it
Ministries, departments and agencies.       indirectly by making
good SLEC's cash
deficiencies which
exceeded their
electricity bills by
about three times.
Section 4.03(b)        The Borrower shall permit SLEC to           Govt. authorized
disconnect electricity to any               SLEC to disconnect
autonomous agency if such agency            any autonomous
shall have failed to pay any                agency which failed
electricity bill within sixty days          to pay its bills,
after issue thereof.   Provided,            and indirectly paid
however, that the Borrower may agree        any in default by
with SLEC on a list of selected             making good SLEC's
autonomous agencies for which the           cash deficiency.
foregoing provision shall not
apply; in which case the Borrower
shall assume the responsibility for,
and cause its Ministry of Finance to
pay directly, promptly and fully to
SLEC, any electricity bill any of
such selected autonomous agency shall
have failed to pay within sixty days
after issue thereof.



Annex 4
- 33 -                                Page 4 of 8
Section 4.04           Not later than September 30, 1977, or        Government complied.
such other date as may be agreed upon
by the Borrower, the Association and
SLEC, the Borrower shall take all
steps necessary to convert all of
SLEC's Loan Stock "A" held by
the Borrower to equity in SLEC.
Section 4.05            Except as the Association shall             Government complied.
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not require SLEC to assume the
financial obligations of the Guma
hydroplant.
Section 4.06           Without limitation or restriction            Govt. did not
upon the provisions of Section 4.01         comply.  Between
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall       February 1978 and
permit SLEC to revise electricity           February 1981 SLEC
tariffs from time to time so as to          made repeated
achieve annual rates of return as           written requests to
specified in Section 4.03 of the            the Ministry to
Project Agreement.                          increase tariffs so
as to enable it to
meet the IDA Project
Agreement's rate of
return covenant.
These started at 10%
and increased to
over 60%. Most of
the letters were
unanswered and none
of the increases
approved.
Section 4.07           The Borrower shall: (i) maintain             Govt. did not
unchanged, or cause to be maintained        comply.  The
unchanged, until December 31, 1977 or       covenant was broken
a later date, the price SLEC pays for       immediately after it
fuel; and (ii) thereafter take all          had been agreed in
necessary measures to ensure that           negotiations and
fuel price increases to SLEC, if any,       again before the
shall not exceed increases in the           effective date.   The
world market price of fuel.   For the       credit became
purposes of this Section, the               effective on a
computation of such increases shall         promise that Govt.
be made on a basis to be agreed             would repay the
between the Borrower and the                increase in cost to
Association.                                SLEC, but this was
not done. There
were 12 increases in
fuel price between
Board approval of
the credit in July
1977 and January 1982,



Annex 4
Page 5 of 8
- 34 -
raising the price
in Freetown from
$102.14 to $330
per long ton (about
70% above the
current market price
in Freetown Harbour).
There were no
discussions with
IDA on the basis
for computing
"world market
price".
2. Project Agreement
Section 2.02(a)        In order to assist SLEC in the               SLEC complied.
preparation of plans and
specifications, the preparation of
bidding documents, and the
supervision of the construction, for
Parts A, C and D of the Project, SLEC
shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.02(b)         In order to assist SLEC in the              SLEC engaged con-
preparation of a master plan for the        sultants without
further electrification of provincial       international
areas, SLEC shall employ consultants        shopping and without
whose qualifications, experience and        IDA or BADEA's
terms and conditions of employment          approval.  Although
shall be satisfactory to the                the consultants were
Association.                                competant and did a
good job, BADEA
refused to finance
this item. The
contract was taken
over by, and financed
by the Government.
Section 2.02(c)        In carrying out Part B of the Project,       SLEC attempted to
SLEC shall employ a specialist whose        make this
qualifications, experience and terms        appointment but were
and conditions of employment shall be       thwarted by
satisfactory to the Association.            inexplicable delays
in obtaining
approval from IDA
and BADEA. The
matter has been
reactivated and a
contract is being
negotiated.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 8
- 35 -
Section 2.03            In order to strengthen SLEC's               Consultants were
financial management and accounting         appointed with
procedures, SLEC shall employ               IDA's concurrence.
financial consultants, whose
qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04            In order to train capable local staff       SLEC complied in
for future management positions, SLEC       February 1978.
shall appoint a local counterpart to
the expatriate Head of the Generation
Department.
Section 3.02            Except as the Association shall             SLEC did not
otherwise agree, SLEC shall not             comply.  The number
increase the number of its employees        of permanent staff
until an appropriate staffing and           increased from 827
training plan shall have been agreed        in 1977 to 1,010 in
upon between the Borrower, the              1981 - an average of
Association and SLEC.   Upon agreement      5% per annum, but
thereon, the Borrower shall start           reducing from 11% in
implementing such plan not later than       1978 to 0.8% in
September 30, 1978, or such other           1981.
date as may be agreed upon between
the Association and SLEC.
Section 3.03            SLEC shall operate and maintain its         SLEC has been
plants, equipment and other property        prevented from
and from time to time make all              complying with this
necessary renewals and repairs              covenant by the
thereof and shall at all times carry        Government's refusal
on its operations in an efficient           to permit tariff
manner under capable management and         increases, by
with competent staff and maintain its       Ministerial
financial position, all in accordance       participation in
with sound engineering and public           day to day manage-
utility practices.                          ment, and by
inability to provide
SLEC with the
foreign exchange
with which to
purchase essential
spare parts and
equipment.
Section 4.02           SLEC shall: (i) have its accounts and       No accounts were
financial statements (balance sheets,       provided for 1976
statements of income and expenses and       and 1977 but were
related statements) for each fiscal         prepared and audited
year audited, in accordance with            for each year there-
appropriate auditing principles             after.
consistently applied by independent



Annex 4
- 36 -                                 Page 7 of 8
auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statments for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial
statements of SLEC and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03           Except as the Association shall              SLEC was prevented
otherwise agree, SLEC shall from time       from increasing
to time take all steps necessary            tariffs by the
including tariff revisions, to              Government.
achieve an annual rate of return of
not less than ten per cent (10%) on
its currently valued assets. Upon
the completion of the revaluation of
the SLEC's assets in accordance with
Section 4.04(a) of this Agreement,
the Association and SLEC shall agree
on a new annual rate of return on
revalued assets to be earned by SLEC
starting FY1980, which annual rate of
return shall not be less than eight
per cent (8%).
Section 4.04           SLEC shall:                                  SLEC did not comply
but revaluation exercise
(a) not later than March 31, 1979,          expected bo be com-
revalue its assets and thereafter           pleted by March 31,
keep such assets revalued annually in       1983.
accordance with appropriate
accounting standards and procedures
acceptable to the Association; and
(b) not later than March 31, 1978,          SLEC did not comply
revise its depreciation policy in a         but will do so in
manner acceptable to the Association.       1983.
Section 4.05           SLEC shall consult with the                 Question did not arise
Association about any capital               since SLEC did not
expenditure to be incurred from its         have funds available.



Annex 4
Page 8 of 8
- 37 -
own resources during FY1978-80 which
shall exceed in any one year an
aggregate amount of $100,000
equivalent excluding any capital
expenditure under the project.
Section 4.06            Except as the Association and SLEC          SLEC did not comply
shall otherwise agree, SLEC shall not       as the test was
incur any debt unless its net revenue       never carried out.
for the fiscal year next preceding
such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to
such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be not less than 1.5
times the maximum debt service
requirement for any succeeding fiscal
year on all debt, including the debt
to be incurred.
Section 4.07            Except as the Association shall             SLEC complied.
otherwise agree, SLEC shall not
assume the financial obligations of
the Guma hydro-plant.



Annex 5
Sierra Leone Credit 734-SL
Completion REport
Development of System Capability, Demand, Sales etc. Actual and Forecast
1978              1979              1980             1981              1982           % Average
Fiscal Year                                                                                                      Annual Growth
Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecas Actual
Western Region Only
Installed Capacity                 25.2    25.2      34.4    32.0     34.4     41.2     43.6    41.2      43.6    41.2
Firm Capacity (in service)         16.2    16.2      22.8    22.8     22.8     25.4     32.0    25.4      32.0    25.4
Peak Load in MW.                   16.2    16.3      20.7    17.6     22.8     19.7     24.5    22.0      26.3    22.7      13.0    8.5           l
Surplus or (Deficit)                 -     (0.1)     2.1      5.2       -       5.7      7.5     3.4       5.7     2.7                            w
Units Generated GWh.               99      98         109     105      120      116      129      131      133     133       7.6    8.0           X
Annual Load Factor %               70      68          60      68       60       67       60      68        60      67                             l
Increase in Max. Demand X            _       _         28       8       10       12        7      12         7       3
nits Sold GWh                     79      76         87       77       96       85      103      95       110     103       8.6    7.9
Losses %                           20      22          20      27       20       27       20       27       20      23
Provinces
Units Generated GWh                30      30          30      29       32       28       36       28       39      24       7.4   -5.0
Units Sold GWh                     20      20          22      14       24       17       27       18       29      15       9.8   -7.0
Losses %                           33      33          27      52       25       39       25       36       25      38
Total SLEC
Units Generated                   129     128         139     134      152      144      165      159      177     157       8.3    5.2               x
Units Sold                         99      96         109      91      120      102      130      113      139     118       8.8    5.3               U
Losses %                           23      25          22      32       21       29       21       29       21      25



Annex 6
Sierra Leone Credit 734-SL
Completion Report
Third Power Project
Tabulation for Rate of Return Computation Western System only
Generation                                                                                                       _
Attributable      Incre-                                   Operation                                           Net Cash   Average
FY    to No. 4 unit     mental        Invstme        _ Benefits      &                          Net Cash               Flow     Cost fuel
at King Tom       Sales              i Distri-    from      Mainte-    Fuel     Residual    Flow               Increased per ton
in GWh          GWh     No.4 unit| bution    Sales GWh   nance      I Cost   Value     Base Case _Benefits            in Leones
- in million Leones -
77                                 10.53                                                          10.53                10.53
78                                  1.04                                                           1.04                 1.04
79        10              8         2.34               (0.88)     0.03       0.37                  1.86                 1.20      145
80         21            16                   .10      (1.76)     0.06        1.13                 (0.47)               (1.79)    213
81         34            26                  0.46      (2.86)     0.10        2.02                 (0.28)               (2.43)    235
82        44             34                  1.69      (3.74)     0.13       4.18                  2.26                 (0.54)    375
83         46            36                   .10      (6.93)     0.13        3.34                 (3.36)               (3.36)    287
84         48            38                   .10      (7.32)     0.14        2.77                 (4.31)               (4.31)    227
85         50            41                   .10      (7.89)     0.15        2.89                 (4.75)               (4.75)    227
86        53             44                   .10      (8.47)     0.16        3.06                 (5.15)               (5.15)    227
87         56            47                            (9.05)     0.17        3.23                 (5.65)               (5.65)    227
88         16            13                            (2.50)     0.05        0.87                 (1.58)               (1.58)    227
89         20            17                            (3.27)     0.06        1.15                 (2.06)               (2.06)    227
90        28             23                            (4.43)     0.09        1.56     (7.33)     (10.11)              (10.11)    227
Equalising Discount Rate ; 10% Base Case
=  13.5% with all Benefits at 0.1925 Le per KWh sold.
Notes.  1.   Incremental Sales assume some old plant retired in 1979 and all KWh sold in excess of 69 million GWh are generated by
No. 4 unit
2.  Distribution Efficiency is 77% in 1982 (actual) and improves by 2% per annum to 84% and then remains constant.
3.  Bumbuna Stage 1 commissioned in FY1988 without annual storage.
4.  Sales increase at 7% per annum from 1982.
5.  Investment costs increased by 30% above actual value for shadow price of foreign exchange.
6.  Sales Benefits based on revenue of 0.11 Le per KWh through 1982 and 0.1925 Le thereafter.
7.  Operation & Maintenance as 1983 Budget for King Tom based on 1982 actuals.
8.  Fuel costs based on 1983 Budget for King Tom through 1982 and reduced in ratio of 228/382 for new price of Le 228
per ton from August 1983.
9.  Residual value based on 5% depreciation for Diesel unit and 4% for Distribution.                                                       m
10.  Rate of exchange Le 1.18 = $1.00                                                                                                       x
11.  No inflation factors have been applied to investment costs since these were fixed price contracts based on 1977                       o
prices.



Annex 7
- 40 -
Sierra Leone Credit 734-SL
Completion Report
Third Power Project
Schedule of Supervision Missions
Interval
since
Date of     Duration             Mission               previous
Mission     in days              Staff &               mission/              Comments
Designation               months
November 1977       7          Engineer No. 1                 8           Same personnel as
Fin. Analyst No. 1                         Fuel Appraisal Team
November 1978      11          Engineer No., 1               12
Fin. Analyst No. 2
February 1979       7          Fin. Analyst No. 2             3
July 1979           6          Fin. Analyst No. 2             5
April 1980         10          Fin. Analyst No. 2             9
December 1980       5          Engineer No. 1                 8
Fin. Analyst No. 3
July 1981           4          Fin. Analyst No. 3             7
Engineer No. 2
November 1981       6          Fin. Analyst No. 3             4
Engineer No. 3                             Consultant
June 1982          18          Fin. Analyst No. 3             7
Engineer No. 3                             Consultant
In addition there were a number of meetings between IDA Staff and the
Engineering consultants working on Bumbuna in Rome and Baden and with
the Financial Consultants in London.



I/                        Annex 8
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION                            Page 1 of 3
Actual and Estimated Income Statements: FY79-82
(Le '000)
1979 2/                1980                  1981                   1982
Year Ended March 31                    Actual   Estimated     Actual   Estimated    Actual   Estimated     Actual   Estimated
Energy Sales Increase %                    -         10.0        2.7       10.0       12.7         8.3        2.3        6.9
CWH Sales                                  99         109        102        120         115        130        118         139
Average Price/kWh (Le)                  0.111      0.120       0.113      0.120      0.111       0.120      0.125     0.1356
Energy Revenue                         11,052      13,069     11,508     14,388     12,740      15,587     14,544     18,848
Government Subvention (Provinces)         520         143        830        347      2,466         484      3,132        281
Other Revenue                             635         120        600        120         752        130        424         130
Conceptional Income (Penalties for
Theft)                                  -          -           -          -          -           -         902         -
Total Revenue                   12,207     13,332      12,938     14,855     15,958      16,201     19,002     19,259
Operating Costs
Fuel (Net of Subvention)                5,033      4,525       6,606      5,316      6,660       6,237      8,828      7,203 >
Operations                              4,467      4,107       4,702      4,346      5,815       4,817      5,919      5,341 '
Provision for Bad Debts                   252         356        811        392       1,056        425        363         454
Depreciation (Historical)                 954       1,472      1,189      1,795       1,366      1,890      2,305      2,786
Total Operating Costs             10,706     10,460      13,308     11,849     14,897      13,369     17,415     15,784
Operating Income                        1,501       2,872       -370      3,006       1,061      2,832      1,587       3,475
Interest Charged Operations               985       1,357      1,170      1,555       1,219      1,829      1,320      2,508
Cross on Exchange                         787          -         325         -        -205          _         909
Possible Dividends                         -           -          -       1,400          -       1,000         -          500
Net Income/ Deficit                      -271       1,515     -1,865         51          47          3       -642         467
Rate Base                              15,797      20,867     20,606     22,634      29,748     24,961     38,509      32,538
Rate of Return %                          9.5        13.8       -1.8       13.3         3.6       11.3        4.1        10.7
Operating Ratio %                         87.7       78.4      102.9       79.8        93.3       82.5       91.6        81.9
1/ The National Power Authority took over the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation on July 5, 1982.
2/ Accounting fell into disarray prior to FY78 and was begun again based on a statement of affairs at the end of FY78.



SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION                                         Annex 8
Actual and Estimated Funds Flow Statements: FY79-82                                  Page 2 of 3
(Le '000)
Year Ended March 31                              1979                   1980                   1981                   1982                 Total
Actual   Estimated     Actual   Estimated     Actual   Estimated    Actual    Estimated    Actual    Estimated
Internal Sources
Operating Income                            1,501     2,872         -270     3,006        1,061     2,832       1,587      3,475       3,779     12,185
Depreciation                                  954     1,472        1,189     1,795        1,366     1,890       2,305      2,786       5,814      7,943
2,455     4,344          h19     4,801        2,427     4,722       3,892      6,261       9,593     20,128
Operational Requirements
Increase/Decrease in Working Capital        1,136        47         -669        15         617        -27       1,347        -68       2,431       -33
Interest Charged Operations                   895                  1,'70                  1,219                 1,320                  4,694
Debt Repayment                                664     1,862        1,263     2,089        1,109     2,394         960      3,112       3,996     9,457
Prior Year Adjustment                        -109                   -.86                                                                -485
Total Operational Requirements         2,586     1,909        1,178     2,104       2,945      2,367       3,627      3,044      10,636     9.424
Available for Investment                     -131     2,435         -659     2,697        -518      2,355         265      3,217      -1,043     10,704 1
Capital Investment
Construction Expenditure                    3,101     3,670          846     2,780       22,419     5,870       1,291     13,960      27,657     26,280
Balance to be Financed                      3,232     1,235        1,.05        83       22,937     3,515       1,026     10,743      28,700     15,576
Financed by
Borrowings                                  2,927     3,310        1,165     2,328        1,207     4,696       1,045     11,168       6,344    21,502
Equity/Grants                                 997       -           -436       -        21,812        -           -          -        22,373       -
Total External Sources                 3,924     3,310         729      2,328      23,019      4,696       1,045     11,168      28,717    21,502
Funds Surplus/Deficit                         692     2,075         -776     2,245          82      1,181          19        425          17     5,926
Possible Dividends to Government              -         -            -       1,400         -        1,000         -          500         -       2,900
Net Funds Surplus                             692     2,075         -776       845           82       181           19       -75          17      3,026
Balance at Beginning of Year                 -200     1,258          492     3,333        -284      4,178        -202      4,359        -200      1,258
Balance at End of Year                        492     3,333         -284     4,178        -202      4,359        -183      4,284        -183     4,284
Annual Contribution to Construction %         -        73.5          -        97.0         -         40.0        25.8       23.0         -         40.7
Annual Debt Service Coverage                  1.5       2.3          0.3       2.3          1.0       2.0         1.7        2.0         1.0        2.1



Annex 8
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION                              Page 3 of 3
Actual and Estimated Balance Sheets: FY79-82
(Le '000)
1979                   1980                  1981                   1982
Year Ended March 31                    Actual   Estimated     Actual   Estimated    Actual   Estimated     Actual   Estimated
Fixed Assets
Gross Plant                            28,167    29,454       27,802    35,894      47,500     37,794      47,756    55,724
Accumulated Depreciation                6,930     9,143        7,827    10,938       7,980     12,828      10,259    15,614
Net Fixed Assets in Operation       21,237    20,311       19,975    24,956      39,520     24,966      37,497    40,110
Work in Progress                          406     5,159        1,325     1,499       2,833      5,469       3,841     1,499
Investment                                 10       -             10       -            10       -             10       -
Current Assets
Cash                                      492     3,333         -284     4,178        -202      4,359        -183     4,284
Receivables                             5,041      1,980       4,368     2,180       3,210      2,362       8,187     2,525
Inventories                             1,715     1,750        3,148     1,925       4,086     2,117        3,606     2,329
Other                                     -          100         -         110         -          120         -         125
7,248     7,163        7,232     8,393       7,094     8,958       11,610     9,263
Total Assets                      28,901    32,633       28,542    34,848      49,457    39,393       52,958    50,872
Equity and Liabilities
Equity (Including Government Grants)   10,717     6,090       10,281     6,090      32,093      6,090      32,093     6,090
Retained Earnings                      -2,260     3,976       -3,839     4,027      -3,791      4,030      -4,434     4,497
8,457    10,066        6,442    10,117      28,302    10,120       27,659    10,587
Long Term Debt                         17,985    19,264       18,212    21,058      18,104     25,189      19,098    35,753
Current Liabilities
Payables                                2,459     3,303        3,888     3,673       3,051      4,084       6,201     4,532
Total Equity and Liabilities      28,901    32,633       28,542    34,848      49,457    39,393       52,958    50,872
Debt/Equity Ratio                       68/32     66/34        74/26     68/32       39/61      71/29       41/59     77/23
Current Ratio                             2.9       2.2          1.9       2.3         2.3        2.2         1.9       2.0



