Report No. 1183b-SL
Appraisal of the Sierra Leone
Third Power Project                                              FILE COPY
May 17, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                            Leone
US $1                                    1.16 Leone
1 Leone                                  US$ 0.86
2 Leone                                  1 Pound Sterling
Units and Measures
GWh                                      Gigawatt hour= 1 million kWh
kWh                                      Kilowatt hour
ton                                      metric ton= 2205 pounds
bbl                                      barrel= 42 US gallons
Imp. gall.                               Imperial gallon= 1.2 US gallon
1 long ton of fuel oil  =                approx. 6.3 bbl
mile                                     1.609 km
m8                       =               cubic meter
million m3                               810 acre-ft
sq. mile                                 2.59 km2
kW                                       Kilowatt
mW                                       Megawatt = 1,000 kW
kVA                                      Kilovolt - ampere
MVA                                      Megavolt - ampere = 1,000 kVA
kV                                       Kilovolt   1,000 volt
V                                        volt
1 km                                     0.62 miles
1 km2                                    0.386 square miles
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BADEA                                    Banque Arabe du Developpement
Economique en Afrique
OvM                                      Oskar von Miller
SLEC                                     Sierra Leone Electricity Corp.
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
Current Fiscal Year FY 78 (April 1, 1977 - March 31, 1978)



FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
Appraisal of the Third Power Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
Summary and Conclusions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i-viii
1. INTRODUCTION..  . ............ 1
2. THE SECTOR.                                                                         1
General Economic Background   ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  1
The Power Sector ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   2
Sector Background   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   2
SLEC's Existing Facilities in Western System  . . . . . . . .  3
Existing Facilities in Provinces . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Sector Planning   ....  .           .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   5
Sector Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
Steps to be Taken   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   7
3.   THE PROJECT.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Scope of the Project  ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   8
Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Project Status  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Project Execution .................... . 12
Proposed IDA Credit   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Project Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Procurement and Disbursement ............... . 14
Environmental. Impact  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 15
4. JUSTIFICATION ....................... . 15
General.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Demand and Available Supply   ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 15
Least-Cost Solution   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Return on Investment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
5.  THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
The Borrower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Bumbuna Organization  ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 18
SLEC ........................... . 19
Organization and Management ............... . 20
Personnel and Training .................. . 20
Finance Department .................... . 20
Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Billing and Collection ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 22
Insurance.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
6.  SLEC FINANCES ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   23
Financial Data ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
Past Finances and Present Financial Position . . . . . . .  23
Valuation of Assets and Depreciation Policy  . . . . . . .  25
Cost of Fuel .26
Tariffs  .   .    .    .   .   .    .    .    .   .   .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .   .  27
Financing Plan .28
Future Financial Position .29
7. RECOMMENDATIONS .30
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Alfonso Posada and Ali N. Memon.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.       Existing Facilities of SLEC
2.       Description of the Project
3.       Project Implementation Schedule
4.       SLEC Investment Program FY 1977-82
5.       Disbursement Schedule
6.       Justification
7.       Tariffs
8.       Terms of Reference for Accounting Specialists
9.       Income Statements (FY 1974-82) - SLEC
10.      Income Statements (FY 1974-82) - Provincial Centers
11.      Cash Flow Statement (FY 1977-82) - SLEC
12.      Balance Sheet (FY 1974-82) - SLEC
13.      Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
14.      Performance Indicators
15.      Apportioning of External and Local Financing
Map of Sierra Leone-IBRD 12283R






SIERRA LEONE
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD POWER PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Introduction
i.        The Government of Sierra Leone has asked IDA and the Banque Arabe
du Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA) to help finance (a) urgently
needed extension of electric generation and distribution facilities in the
capital city, Freetown, and in several provincial centers, and (b) the
project preparation for the Bumbuna hydro-electric development which would
follow. A US$ 8.2 million IDA credit is proposed for the project. The
Government of Sierra Leone would be the Borrower. The Government would
administer and itself use part of the proposed IDA credit (US$ 1.1 million)
allocated to the preparation of the Bumbuna project and would relend the
remainder (US$ 7.1 million) under a subsidiary loan agreement, to the
Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC), the Government-owned entity
responsible for the generation and distribution of electricity in public
consumption areas of Sierra Leone. BADEA would lend US$ 5.0 million for
the project.
Existing Facilities
ii.       SLEC's power generating facilities in the Western system (Freetown)
and in provincial centers, which have been built up mainly with the help of
two previous Bank loans, 388-SL in 1964 for US$ 3.8 million and 553-SL in
1968 for US$ 3.9 million, consist of (a) the 19.8 MW King Tom diesel-electric
power plant with three low-speed units (all Bank financed) in Freetown and
related distribution facilities plus two old thermal power plants with
about 3 MW of reliable capacity, and (b) a number of small diesel-electric
plants in provincial centers totalling 11.2 MW. In addition SLEC operates
a small hydro plant with about 2 MW of seasonally available capacity, owned
by the Guma Valley Authority.
Institution
iii.      SLEC, which was created in 1964 as a Government corporation,
originally headed by a board of directors and a general manager, developed
its activities satisfactorily until 1969 when the entity was troubled by
major labor problems ending in the resignation of the management. A new mana-
gement took over after some delay, but in 1973 SLEC began to experience serious
problems with the King Tom units and extensive load curtailments occured in



- ii -
the system supplying Freetown. These problems were compounded by financial
difficulties due to the large increases in fuel prices in 1973/74 and un-
changed electricity tariffs. Finally, in mid-1974, the Government abolished
SLEC's board, transferred the latter's duties to a newly created Ministry
of Energy and Power, and hired a German consulting engineering firm, Oskar
von Miller (OvM), to manage SLEC for a five-year period; Sierra Leonian
counterparts have been appointed (one is still to be confirmed) to take
over management from the expatriate team after expiration of the management
contract. The arrangement has so far worked reasonably well, but the day-
to-day business still has to be cleared with the Minister which restricts
SLEC's management autonomy. Assurances have been obtained from Government
that the management will have sufficient authority to carry out its respon-
sibility effectively. Confirmation of the one local counterpart will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Sector Objectives
iv.       This background sets the following appropriate sector objectives
for the period FYs 1977-1980: (a) as soon as possible restore system relia-
bility and meet the load in the system supplying Freetown; (b) in the short-
run improve system reliability and meet the load in existing provincial
systems, giving the extension of supply to new centers a lesser priority;
(c) plan, in an orderly way, the next large addition to generating capacity,
which would appear to be a hydro-plant at Bumbuna Falls on the Seli River
on the basis of feasibility studies that have so far been carried out;
(d) create a sector organization capable of properly planning and imple-
menting the sector development program of the 1980s; and (e) assure financial
viability of the sector.
V.        The Government's 1974 decision to reorganize SLEC and to improve
the entity's finances, by permitting substantial increases in tariffs in
1974, 1975 and 1977, provides a reasonable basis for orderly sector opera-
tion and planning. A systematic overhauling of the King Tom units and of
the provincial centers' generating units was put into effect by SLEC to im-
prove reliability of the electric supply. The Bank group helped prepare
proposals for a restructuring of the sector, which would lead toward better
sector organization, proper planning of and implementation of the sector's
development, particularly that of the Bumbuna hydro-electric scheme, if
confirmed to be the most advantageous solution for Sierra Leone's long-term
power requirements. However, in the short-run, additional generating
capacity will be needed in Freetown to meet expected load growth until
Bumbuna is operative, and more generating capacity will also be required in
a number of provincial centers to meet load growth or to replace worn-out
units. In addition, some rehabilitation and strengthening of distribution
systems is urgently needed; the project addresses itself to these matters.



- iii -
The Project
vi.       The principal components of the project proposed for IDA/BADEA
financing are (a) the installation by early 1978 of a 9.2 MW low-speed
diesel-electric generating unit at the present King Tom power plant as
well as the construction of priority 33 kV distribution facilities in
Freetown; (b) expansion of generating capacity amounting to 2.3 MW in
ten isolated provincial centers; (c) supply of data processing equipment
for customers billing, inventory records, and general accounting; (d)
technical assistance; and (e) consultants' services required to complete
the feasibility study of the Bumbuna hydro-electric scheme and design
studies necessary to tender the construction of the hydro plant's first
stage.
vii.      The project is estimated to cost US$ 15.2 million equivalent,
with a foreign component of US$ 13.2 million. Project costs include
US$ 1.09 million to cover price escalation and US$ 1.13 million for un-
expected changes in design and other unforeseen events. The cost of the
facilities and services to be executed by SLEC is estimated at US$ 13.68
million with an off-shore component of US$ 12.10 million. The estimated
cost for the project preparation of Bumbuna is US$ 1.52 million, of which
US$ 1.1 million will be required in foreign exchange. The estimated costs
for the extension of the King Tom power plant are actual contract prices
awarded under international competitive bidding. Cost for the units in
provincial centers represent early 1977 prices. The costs for the 33 kV
distribution are based on current quotations and costs of similar work in
Western Africa. The cost of the consultants' services for the King Tom
extension and the 33 kV distribution are actual contract prices for the
former and a firm offer for the latter. The cost estimate of the consultants'
services for Bumbuna is based on a mid-1976 estimate updated in early 1977.
Procurement
viii.     Since the prompt installation of the fourth unit at King Tom power
plant is urgently needed to improve reliability of the electric supply in
Freetown, SLEC with the approval of IDA, and on the basis of tender documents
approved by IDA, advertised for bids and, in December 1975 after consultation
with IDA, awarded the contracts for both equipment and civil works. The IDA
credit would be disbursed against (a) the off-shore components of the contracts
for supply of equipment and civil works for the King Tom extension; (b) 50%
of the engineering services for this extension; (c) the off-shore cost of data



- iv -
processing equipment; and (d) the off-shore costs of the project prepa-
ration for the Bumbuna hydro-electric scheme. It is recommended that
IDA retroactively finance the off-shore payments to the supplier of the
King Tom equipment and to the contractor of the civil works for the
King Tom extension; these total about US$ 5.7 million. The amount of
retroactive financing prcposed is exceptionally large due to the fact
that presentation of the proposed credit to the Executive Directors was
postponed until the Governments took steps to implement a satisfactory
program to stabilize the economy. The BADEA loan will finance the total
cost (both off-shore and on-shore costs) of (a) corrective measures at
King Tom; (b) 33 kV distribution; (c) generating units for provincial
centers; and (d) consultants' services for the preparation of a master
plan for further electrification of provincial centers, for design and
construction supervision of the 33 kV distribution, and for improvements
of SLEC's financial management and accounting procedures.
Project Execution
ix.       SLEC's in-house consultants, OvM, besides managing the entity,
undertook the planning of the King Tom extension and assisted SLEC in
the procurement process. The installation of the works will be carried
out by the contractors, both Swiss firms, Sulzer (equipment) and
Falkenberg & Braun (civil works). SLEC assisted by OvM will supervise
the execution of the work. SLEC, also assisted by OvM, will carry out
the procurement procedures for the provincial centers' generating units
and for the 33 kV distribution system in Freetown; the planning for the
latter will be completed by OvM. The installation work will be carried
out by contractors under the supervision of SLEC assisted by OvM. The
masterplan for further electrification of provincial centers will be
prepared by OvM. The services of a foreign specialist will be enlisted
to study the causes of the problems with the electric generators of the
existing units at King Tom, to plan the remedial measures which are
advisable to prevent repetition of the mishaps, and to supervise procure-
ment and installation. For the required improvement in SLEC financial
management and accounting procedures, SLEC has agreed to appoint financial
consultants. These arrangements for project execution are satisfactory.
x.        SLEC will not be in a position to carry out the project prepara-
tion of Bumbuna because its staff is barely able to operate the existing
facilities and is fully occupied with routine matters. The Government has
therefore taken steps to establish a Bumbuna Project Development Committee
under the Chairmanship of the Vice President of the Republic to have
general responsibility for directing the preparatory work for the Bumbuna



v 
project. In this task the Committee will be assisted by a Chief Engineer.
The appointment of the Chief Engineer, acceptable to IDA, would be condi-
tion of disbursement for the Bumbuna component of the IDA credit. The
Committee, with the assistance of the Chief Engineer, will select enginee-
ring consultants (in consultation with IDA and with terms of reference
approved by IDA) that will undertake the task of completing the feasibi-
lity studies, designing the hydro-plant and attending to all other preli-
minary activities.
Justification
xi.       The modest improvement in reliability of service achieved by
SLEC in the last 18 months induced a number of potential non-residential
users to apply for new or additional supply for about 12 MW of connected
load. Conservative demand for this load (which is relatively inelastic
to electricity prices and, therefore, only slightly influenced by the
recent 15% tariff increases deemed necessary to improve SLEC's financial
situation), together with a small increase in existing loads, leads to
projected increases in peak demand and gross generation of 6.6 MW and
21 GWh, respectively, between FYs 78 and 80, or an average of 10% per year.
In later years the growth of demand is assumed to slow down to about 7% per
year once the repressed demand has been met. Once the ongoing rehabilita-
tion work is completed but before the proposed project is implemented,
SLEC's dependable generating capacity would be about 22.8 MW of which only
16.2 MW are firm (largest unit out for scheduled maintenance); this 16.2 MW
is of the same order of magnitude as the peak load in FY77. Therefore,
additional capacity is needed urgently to meet the projected increase in demand.
xii.      Additions to generating capacity for provincial centers attend
racstly to the replacement of obsolete or worn out equipment and a moderate
increase in the supply potential. Nevertheless, in the course of the exe-
cution of the proposed project, the Government and SLEC should develop a
masterplan that would allow the demand to be met in an orderly way, and
particularly in order of priority.
xiii.     The decision to install a low-speed diesel-electric at King Tom
has been made on the basis of both risk considerations and least-cost com-
putations. Adoption of the technical alternative with medium-speed units
would involve having to deal with a more sophisticated technology, with
which SLEC is unfamiliar and would therefore require additional expatriate
personnel, and more frequent routine maintenance and overhauls than low-
speed units, which are far more rugged. In this case, SLEC maintenance
and reliability problems, already very serious, would become almost intole-
rable. Moreover, computations indicate that the selected solution is the
least-cost alternative for all discount rates up to 15% assuming foreign
exchange costs are priced at 30% above market price.



- vi -
xiv.      Return on investment (considering shadow pricing of foreign
exchange costs at 30% over market price) would be between 11% and 13%
for the project component concerning the system supplying Freetown and
between 4% and 9% for the provincial centers. The low rate of return
for the provincial centers component reflects the differing supply con-
ditions and the relatively small size of these systems compared with the
system supplying Freetown.
SLEC Staffing and Management
xv.       SLEC appears to be substantially overstaffed, mostly at the lower
level, while the entity suffers an acute lack of medium-level technicians
and accourtants. During negotiations SLEC agreed to freeze total staff
at existing levels until a satisfactory staffing and training plan has been
agreed with IDA. SLEC also agreed to start implementing its training and
staffing proposals by September 30, 1978.
xvi.      SLEC's financial management (general accounting, data processing,
asset valuation, depreciation policy, internal audit, management reporting,
puchasing and stores) requires improvement. The proposed project provides
for assistance from financial consultants to review, make recommendations
and assist in implementing the required improvement; their appointment would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
SLEC Finances
xvii.     SLEC is about 15 months behind in the preparation of its accounts.
The financial data is only indicative of the orders of magnitude. After
several years of a negative or low rate of return, and following (a) a recent
15% tariff increase; and (b) stabilization of fuel price, SLEC is estimated
to have earned a 9.7% return during the fiscal year ending March 31, 1977.
The Government has recently paid SLEC arrears in bills for Government depart-
ments in the second half of FY 77 amounting to about Le 1.0 million. SLEC's
present financial position would be sat-sfactory if the Government paid an
estimated 0.48 million compensation for operating losses incurred by SLEC
on the provincial system during FY 77. Payment of the arrears for provincial
losses will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
xviii.    SLEC has agreed to revalue its assets before the end of FY 79 to
reflect current costs for those assets and to increase depreciation rates
to more realistic levels starting FY 78.



- vii -
xix.      Until recently, the fuel price paid by SLEC was very high.  This
is explained by an uneconomic local refinery and Government's fuel distri-
bution agreements with five oil companies. Since early 1976 the fuel price
has been stabilized. In order to ensure that SLEC will not continue to be
penalized for the uneconomic refinery and Government's existing agreements
with the oil companies, assurance has been obtained from the Government
that the current price to SLEC will be maintained at least until December 31,
1977. Thereafter, increases, if any, shall not exceed increases as from that
date in the world market price of fuel.
xx.       SLEC's tariff structure is satisfactory.  Agreement was reached
that in order to ensure continued financial viability of SLEC, it should earn
an annual return of 10% on assets as presently valuated. Upon completion of
the asset revaluation exercise, SLEC should earn not less than 8% on revalued
assets beginning in FY 80.
xxi.      It is Government policy to use uniform tariffs throughout the
country despite differing supply conditions. In recent years the Government
has compensated SLEC for losses on provincial operations at a fixed rate
of Le 70,000 per year. Since the actual losses are much larger, the
Government has now agreed to compensate SLEC on the basis of actual losses.
Payment of the compensation for FY 77 loss is a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed Credit.
xxii.     With the implementation of the above-mentioned measures including
financial consultancy work, stabilization of fuel cost, timely tariff
adjustments to permit the agreed rate of return, timely payment of electr5--
city bills and compensation for provincial losses by the Government, SLEC
is expected to have a satisfactory financial position in the future.
Financing Plan
xxiii.    The proposed IDA Credit, all for foreign cost, would cover about
59% of total off-shore costs of the project. The balance of the off-shore
costs financing would be covered by the BADEA loan. The Government will
finance the on-shore costs of the project preparation for Bumbuna, and SLEC
will finance the on-shore costs of its part of the project. Satisfactory
execution of the BADEA loan agreement would be a condition of effectiveness
of the IDA Credit.



- viii -
xxiv.     There is a foreign exchange gap of about US$ 0.7 million over
FY 77-80 relating to SLEC's investment program outside of the proposed
project. Assurances were obtained from the Government that the required
funds will be made available.
Conclusion
xxv.      Based on agreement reached on the conditions set forth in
Chapter 7, the project is a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$ 8.2
million.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Sierra Leone has asked IDA and Banque Arabe
du Developpement en Afrique (BADEA) to help finance a project comprising
(i) key components of the FYs 1977-80 development program of the Sierra
Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC), the government-own;ed entity res-
ponsible for the generation and distribution of electricity in public
consumption areas of Sierra Leone; and (ii) the project preparation for
the Bumbuna hydro-electric development.
1.02      This would be the third Bank group operation in the power sector
of Sierra Leone. The first two (Loans 388-SL in 1964 for US$ 3.8 million
and 553-SL in 1968 for US$ 3.9 million) helped SLEC finance the installa-
tion of the three units at the King Tom power station in Freetown, diesel-
electric sets in provincial centers, and expansion of associated distribu-
tion facilities. Both operations have been completed, although, the
second was accomplished with substantial delay. While the operation of
the facilities installed under these loans has been generally successful,
the King Tom units have suffered unusually frequent and long outages
(see para. 2.09).
1.03      The proposed project was appraised in April 1975 by Messrs.
A. Engvall, M. Lhardy and A. Conde. Owing to substantial changes in the
load forecast and the need for a reassessment of the reliability of the
generating and distribution system, re-appraisal was carried out by
Messrs. R. Ribi and H. Busz in November 1975. At the same time Messrs.
R.H. Sheehan and E.L. Quartey (Consultant) analysed the power sector and
proposed measures to assure (i) the proper operation and expansion of the
power system over the next few years; and (ii) the efficient implementation
of the Bumbuna development (see para. 2.19). Finally, all significant
features of the project were reviewed with the Government and SLEC in
April 1976 and again in March/April 1977 by Messrs. A. Posada and A. Memon.
2.  THE SECTOR
General Economic Background
2.01      The Republic of Sierra Leone covers an area of about 71,700 km2
and has a population of approximately 3 million, of which 300,000 live in
or around Freetown, the capital. During the late-60's and early-70's GDP



- 2 -
grew relatively rapidly but erratically and after stagnation in 1974,
growth has been 2% per annum on the average. Although, the share of
mining in GDP has declined, and that of the service and public sectors
have substantially increased in recent years, mining (diamonds and iron
ore) still provides about two-thirds of the country's export earnings.
That portion of GDP generated by agriculture, which sustains about 75%
of the population, decreased over the seven-year period ending 1971; and
a growth of only 1.6% per annum in the sector has been experienced.
During recent years the growth of the country has been constrained by a
severe shortage of foreign exchange associated with a deteriorating ex-
ternal balance position and an increasing external debt service burden.
The First National Development Plan (1975-1979) calls for diversification
through increased agricultural production, establishment of processing
industries for agricultural products, expansion of mining and resumption
of rutile mining. A reliable power supply is a precondition for most
of these developments. However, the present poor position of the power
sector is a constraint to development. SLEC is unable to meet the demand
and frequently has to resort to load shedding; this not only leads to
considerable losses in production and revenues but also to the installa-
tion of costly and uneconomic captive power plants by private firms.
2.02      Currently, about 25% of Sierra Leone's population live in
centers where electricity is available; however, since only 40% of these
have a connection (50% in Freetown and 30% in the provinces), only about
10% of the total overall population benefits from public service electri-
city. Altogether, the electric supply in Sierra Leone is of very low
quality.
The Power Sector
2.03      The total installed capacity of the power sector is about 85 MW;
the country is served with AC, 50 cycles per second. Except for the Guma
Valley Authority (GVA)-owned hydro-plant (2.4 MW), this is all thermal.
Of the total capacity, 40 MW is captive plant; the remaining 45 MW, except
for the Guma plant, is owned by SLEC. In addition, SLEC operates the Guma
plant on behalf of GVA, the energy from which is fed into SLEC's "Western"
system, supplying Freetown and its suburbs.
Sector Background
2.04      In 1964 SLEC was created as a Government corporation to succeed
the Electricity Division of the Ministry of Works. SLEC was vested with
the right to supply all electricity to be used throughout the country, and
when unable to supply, to licence persons or entities for electricity pro-
duction. Originally, SLEC was managed by Sierra Leonean management under



overall direction of a Board of Directors, appointed by the Minister of
Works, and representing Government and business. Under this regime, SLEC
developed satisfactorily but in 1969 the Corporation was beset with major
labor problems, which ultimately led to violence and resignation of the
Corporation's management. After a considerably delay, the Government
was able to find and designate a new management and the utility's per-
formance improved noticeably. In 1973, however, a new decline started
when SLEC began to experience increasing difficulties in operating its
main generating plant (see Annex 1), and had to resort to frequent and
substantial load shedding in its "Western" system. These difficulties
were compounded by financial problems arising from the dramatic increase
in fuel costs in late-1973 and early-1974 and the failure to adjust tariffs
to cover increased costs. Under these circumstances the Corporation's
financial position rapidly worsened. The Corporation's operations were
financed by short-term government advances which by the end of FY 75
amounted to Le 7.2 million. At that same time, SLEC's management was in
disarray with several senior personnel under Government investigation for
alleged corrupt practices.
2.05      In mid-1974, the Government dismissed the entire top management
and entered into a five-year management contract with the German consulting
firm, Oskar von Miller (OvM). Until now this arrangement has worked reasona-
bly well. In 1974 and 1975 Government allowed SLEC to substantially increase
its tariffs (first by an average of 60% and then by an average of 30%). In
January 1977, a further increase in tariffs (averaging 15%) was implemented
by SLEC.
2.06      At the time the Government appointed OvM to manage SLEC, the Act
establishing SLEC was modified transferring the duties and prerogatives of
SLEC's Board to a new Ministry of Energy and Power.
2.07      The performance of SLEC under the Second Power Project (553-SL)
has recently been reviewed by Operations Evaluation Department and the
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 1610 dated May 27, 1977) has been dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors. The Report refers to the same problems
as noted in para. 2.04, i.e., the financial and managerial weaknesses of
SLEC and the decline in the reliability of the Western System. To the
extent that no corrective measures have yet been taken, the proposed Third
Power Project would address these problems.
SLEC's Existing Facilities in Western System
2.08      Generating facilities supplying SLEC's Western System have a
total installed capacity of 34 MW. They comprise (for details see Annex 1):



(i) three diesel-electric units at King Tom (all
Bank financed) with a total capacity of 19.8 MW;
(ii) three relatively old diesel-electric sets total-
ling 2.8 MW and two new 1.5 MW diesel-electric
units at the Falconbridge plant;
(iii) three old steam turbo-generators with a combined
capacity of 5 MW and two small diesel-electric
sets capable of producing together about 1.0 MW
at the Blackhall Road Plant but unable to operate
in parallel with the other larger units; and
(iv) the 2.4 MW Guma hydro-plant, which uses water from
the Freetown water supply impounding reservoir.
For purpose of future planning of the System, besides the King Tom
units, only 3 MW (the two new diesel units) at Falconbridge and 2 MW
seasonally available at Guma can be considered as dependable generating
capacity in the Western System.
2.09      The King Tom units have been unreliable in recent years; this
is probably due to deficient initial maintenance and other yet unexplained
problems with their electric generators (see Annex 1). SLEC has systema-
tically overhauled these units, but even after regular overhauls and
maintenance, it is unlikely that their reliability will ever compare with
that originally designed. SLEC's older units at both Falconbridge and
Blackhall Road, when in a state to run, produce energy at prohibitive cost
with fuel alone costing Le 0.07 per kWh (more than double the cost at
King Tom). The Guma hydro-plant had been out of order for most of FYs
74 and 75 but was repaired in early FY 76; with increasing water demand
in Freetown, the water available for power productior (which is that
surplus to water supply demand) is decreasing and will eventually reach
a level inadequate for power production. Due to these problems, although,
the peak load never exceeded 17 MW, the total installed capacity of 34 MW
was inadequate to provide reliable service.
2.10      In the Western System, energy is distributed through a 155 km long
11 kV network, mostly underground, to 114 distribution transformers connected
to a 380/220 V overhead low voltage system. Distribution losses and unaccounted
for energy at 21% of net generation (gross generation less station use), are
high. These losses appear to result mainly from extensive consumer fraud.
Better system control has been instituted by SLEC to reduce theft and losses
which are expected to come down to about 16% of net generation for FY 77.



-5-
Existing Facilities in Provinces
2.11      SLEC supplies electricity to 14 provincial centers; in 1975
total installed capacity (all diesel units) in these centers was 11.2 MW.
The largest system, Kemena, has 3 MW and the smallest, Pujehur, 58 kW.
Since most of the units are of fast r.p.m. diesel type, those units older
than about ten years are of doubtful reliability (see Annex 1). Two of
the systems, Lungi and Port Loko, are interconnected by an 11 kV line;
11 kV and 380/220 V are the distribution voltages in these systems.
Sector Planning
Bumbuna Project
2.12      Although, during the past few years several major studies have
been carried out, sector planning has been poor. In 1970/71, Motor
Columbus (Switzerland) prepared a study, financed by UNDP, which included
a 15-year electricity supply development plan based on a market study and
an extensive survey of the hydro-electric potential of Sierra Leone. The
study concluded that the first addition to the power generation capacity
of the Western System should be the Bumbuna hydro-electric plant on the
Seli River in the northeastern part of the country. The 200 km long trans-
mission line to Freetown would be sectionalized by at least two substations
which would allow the hook-up of nearby provincial systems. The consultants'
conclusions were not accepted because of disagreement on the bases used in
the analysis (in particular, estimates of industrial demand were considered
too high, potential financing excessively high, and capital costs too low).
2.13      After completion of the Motor Columbus study, Italian Consultants
Carlo Lotti carried out a feasibility study of the Bumbuna hydro-development
project in 1972. The study was financed by an Italian/Canadian consortium
of contractors who intended to mobilize financing and to execute the
project as a turn-key operation. A project did not materialize, however,
because the consultants conceived a very large (55 MW) and very expensive
first stage.
2.14      In June 1975 the consulting engineering firm Studio Ing. G.
Pietrangeli (Italy) completed a review of the Carlo Lotti study. The task,
with which this consultant was entrusted by the Government, was essentially
to update the hydrology of the Seli River, the load forecast and to make
an economic comparison between alternative schemes to meet the long-term
electric power requirements of the Western System and of those provincial
centers that could be integrated into a central power supply scheme. Based
on its findings, Pietrangeli proposed a staged development of the hydro-



electric potential of the Seli River beginning with a 35 MW hydropower
plant at Bumbuna Falls. Seasonal storage of the river flow would be
obtained by means of a 320 million m3 reservoir at Yiben, 30 km up-
stream. Annual firm generation is estimated at 201 GWh and secondary
generation at 49 GWh or, an average of 250 GWh per year. Capital cost
of this stage, including transmission to Freetown, would be the equivalent
of about US$ 72 million 1/ - (excluding interest during construction) -
of which US$ 22 million would be for the Yiben dam and associated access
roads.
2.15     With the recent closure of the Marampa Mines 2/, which repre-
sents a sizeable reduction in the load estimate for the Bumbuna project
service area, there is now a need to re-examine the phasing of the
Bumbuna scheme with the object of arriving, if possible, at a lower cost
first stage. Essentially, this would be achieved by postponing the con-
struction of the Yiben dam for a few years after the Bumbuna plant is
built, and by using Bumbuna's headpond (18.9 million m3 useful storage)
for daily flow regulation during the dry season in combination with
thermal support from the King Tom power plant. Preliminary analysis
suggests that this arrangement is technically viable and economically
more advantageous.  Nevertheless, whatever solution is selected for the
first stage of Bumbuna, will have to be compared with transmission from
the proposed Mano River power scheme in the border between Sierra Leone
and Liberia, which is being studied by consultants under UNDP auspices.
Sector Objectives
2.16     The Government's 1974 decision to reorganize SLEC and to improve
its finances provide a reasonably firm base for orderly sector operation and
planning. As a start, SLEC and OvM prepared a plan for a crash program and
followed this with a five-year plan which is mostly aimed at improving re-
liability in the Western System on the assumption that energy from Bumbuna
would become available in the mid-1980s. SLEC and the Government intend to
have OvM further develop this program as soon as decisions on the scope
and timing of the Bumbuna project have been taken.
1/ At 1975 prices.
2/ Iron ore mining with power requirement estimated originally by Pietrangeli
at 44 GWh per year and 7.2 MW maximum power demand.



2.17     Against the above background, the following appear to be
appropriate sector objectives:
(i) as soon as possible restore system reliability
and meet the load in the Western System;
(ii)  in the short-run improve system reliability and
meet the load in existing provincial systems,
giving the extension of supply to new centers
second priority;
(iii)  plan, in an orderly way, the next addition to
the generating capacity for the Western System;
this next stage of development would appear to
be a plant at Bumbuna; such construction would
permit the interconnection of several presently
isolated provincial systems with the Western
System;
(iv) create a sector organization capable of properly
planning and implementing the sector development
program of the 1980s; and
(v) improve financial management and assure financial
viability of SLEC.
Steps Taker. or to be Taken
2.18     The systematic overhauling of the King Tom units (para. 2.09)  and
of the provincial system's generating sets, and the replacement of the King
Tom sea-water cooling system's cast iron pipes, which has been badly affected
by corrosion and marine growth, with plastic pipes now being carried out re-
presents substantial progress toward achieving objectives (i) and (ii) above.
However, in the short-run, new generating capacity will have to be added to
the Western System to meet expected load growth until Bumbuna is operative;
this would comprise the addition of two diesel-electric units at King Tom,
the first in early 1978 and the second in early 1982 (see Attachment 2 of
Annex 6). Similarly, additional capacity will be required in a number of
provincial centers to meet load growth or to replace worn-out units. Some
rehabilitation and strengthening of distribution systems will also be needed
in the immediate future.



-8-
2.19      For all practical purposes the King Tom power plant can be
considered presently as the sole source of power for the Western System
and will continue to be so for a number of years until Bumbuna is built.
Therefore, it is advisable to take measures to prevent repetition of the
generator outages that have so seriously affected SLEC's operation
during the past few years.
2.20      Implementation of the Bumbuna part of the proposed project is
the first step towards achievement of objective (iii). The Bank has
submitted recommendations for the future institutional set-up of the
sector with particular reference to the Bumbuna development. The first
step now being taken is the creation of an organization which can control
and supervise the project preparation of the Bumbuna hydro-electric scheme
(see para. 5.02). The long-term measures indicated in para. 5.03 would
facilitate achievement of objective (iv).
2.21     The financial measures described in Chapters 5 and 6 would
contribute to the achievement of objectives (v); their implementation
should result in an improvement of SLEC's current position and assure
internal cash generation adequate to contribute significantly to SLEC's
investment program.
3. THE PROJECT
Scope of the Project
3.01      SLEC's FYs 1977-82 investment program (see Annex 4) comprises the
following key items to be completed in the FYs 1977-80:
(i)  installation by early-1978 of a 9.2 MW fourth
diesel-electric generating unit at the King Tom
power plant;
(ii)  measures to prevent repetition of electric gene-
rator outages at King Tom power plant, which
entail (a) hiring a specialist to study the
cause of these breakdowns and the electric
protection schemes of the units, then design
and supervise procurement and installation of
the additional protective devices required, and
(b) procurement of these protective devices;



(iii) installation, by late-1977, of data processing
equipment for customers' billing, inventory
records, and general accounting;
(iv) construction of the first and highest priority
stage of a 33 kV distribution in the Western
System;
(v) installation, by mid-1979, of 2.3 MW in diesel-
electric generating units at various provincial
centers; and
(vi) employment of consultants' services for (a) the
procurement, planning, and construction super-
vision for (i), (iv) and (v) above, (b) for the
preparation of a master plan for the further
electrification of provincial centers, and
(c) for improvement of SLEC's financial manage-
ment and accounting procedures.
3.02      The project proposed for IDA/BADEA financing consists of these
six key items of the program, together with the consultants' services
required (a) to complete the Pietrangeli study on the feasibility of the
Bumbuna hydroplant (para. 2.13), and (b) to design further the first stage
of that plant to the detail required for the preparation of tender documents,
and to prepare such tender documents. Annex 2 gives a detailed description
of the project.
Project Costs
3.03      The project is estimated to cost Le 17.68 million (equivalent to
US$ 15.20 million) with a foreign exchange component of US$ 13.20 million.
The costs, which are summarized below, exclude all taxes and duties on
equipment imported for the project since the Government exempts SLEC from
these payments.



- 10 -
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD POWER PROJECT - ESTIMATED COSTS
----in million Leone…--------      ---in million US $         …---------   of --
On-Shore   Off-Shore   Total       On-Shore   Off-Shore   Total        Total
Project SLEC
(i)       Fourth Unit King Tom:
a) equipment                       0.14        7.07      7.21         0.12        6.08       6.20
b) civil works                     0.41        0.64      1.05         0.35        0.55       0.90
Sub-total                  0.55        7.71       8.26         0.47        6.63       7.10       47%
(ii)      Corrective measures at King Tom  -             0.23       0.23         -           0.20      0.20
(iii)     33 kV Distribution - First Stage 0.52          1.40       1.92         0.45        1.20      1.65
(iv)      Generating Units for Provinces   0.19          1.16       1.35         0.16        1.00      1.16
(v)       Data Processing Equipment          -           0.23       0.23         -           0.20      0.20
(vi)      Consultants:
a) provincial systems              0.06        0.12      0.18         0.05        0.10       0.15
b) financial                       0.06        0.31      0.37         0.05        0.27       0.32
c) engineering:
- King Tom extension            0.01       0.62       0.63         0.01        0.53       0.54
- 33 kV distribution            0.01       0.47       0.48         0.01        0.40       0.41
Total Base Line Costs              1.40       12.25     13.65         1.20       10.53      11.73       77%
Contingencies:
- Physical                         0.25        1.07      1.32         0.22        0.91       1,13
- Price                            0.19        0.76      0.95         0.66        0.66       0.82
Total Project SLEC                 1.84       14.08     15.92         1.58       12.10      13.68       90%
Project Preparation Bumbuna Hydro
(vii)     Consultants:
a) Completion of feasibility
studies                        0.03       0.12       0.15         0.03        0.10       0.13
b) Engineering design and bid
documents                      0.37       0.93       1.30         0.32        0.80       1.12
(viii)    Ccntirgencies                      0.08        0.23       0.31         0.07       0.20       0.27
Total Project Preparation
Bumbuna Hydro                     0.48        1.28      1.76         0.42        1.10       1.52      10%
GRAND TOTAL PROJECT                2.32       15.36     17.68         2.00       13.20      15.20      100%



- 11 -
3.04      The estimated costs for the extension of the King Tom power
plant are actual contract prices for contracts awarded under international
competitive bidding for both equipment and civil engineering works. Costs
for the units for provincial centers represent early-1977 prices for such
units obtained from manufacturers. The costs for the 33 kV distribution
are based on current quotations and on costs of similar type of work in
West Africa. The cost of the consultants' services for the King Tom ex-
tension and the 33 kV distribution are actual contract prices for the
former and a firm offer for the latter. The cost estimate of the con-
sultants' services for Bumbuna is based on a mid-1976 estimation updated
in early-1977.
3.05      Since the equipment for the King Tom extension is well defined,
and cost estimates are based on a firm price contract, physical contin-
gencies for the foreign exchange component have been kept at a low 5%.
A physical contingency of 15% has been included in the local component
of this equipment and for the civil works to cover unforeseeable cons-
truction problems, particularly related to the foundation works. As no
detailed design work has been done on the proposed 33 kV distribution,
a physical contingency of 20% has been allowed in order to take care of
possible latter variations. The engineering services for the King Tom
extension and for the new additions to the provincial systems' generating
capacity are paid under fixed price lump-sum contract. Likewise, design of
the 33 kV distribution is to be done under a fixed price lump-sum contract
for which a firm offer exists; a physical contingency allowance is, there-
fore not warranted. However, for the project preparation of Bumbura an
allowance of 20% has been included. Price contingencies had been allowed
at 7.5% per year for equipment and 9% per year for civil works.
Project Status
3.06      Contracts have been awarded and signed with Sulzer and Falkenberg
& Braun (both of Switzerland) respectively for the supply of equipment and
for the construction of the civil engineering works of the King Tom plant
extension. Sulzer has completed the manufacture cf the generating unit
which is now being shipped to Freetown. Construction of the civil enginee-
ring works at King Tom is advancing on schedule. Engineering services for
this King Tom extension, including shop inspection of equipment, have been
entrusted to OvM under a contractual agreement with the Government acting
on behalf of SLEC. Detailed design work is still to be carried out for the



- 12 -
proposed 33 kV distribution and OvM has submitted an offer for this
task to Government; signing of the contract is expected shortly.
Tender documents have already been prepared by OvM for the provincial
centers' generating units, hence no delay is anticipated in their
procurements.
Project Execution
3.07      SLEC's in-house consultants OvM, which as indicated in para.
2.05 are managing the Corporation, undertook the planning of the King Tom
extension and assisted SLEC in the procurement procedures. The installa-
tion of the equipment and the construction of the necessary civil works
are being undertaken by the contracting firms Sulzer and Falkenberg & Braun,
respectively. SLEC, assisted by OvM, will supervise the execution of the
works. SLEC, assisted by OvM, will carry out the procurement procedures
for the provincial centers' generating units and for the 33 kV distribu-
tion system; the planning for the latter will be completed by OvM. The
installation work will be carried out by the contractors under the super-
vision of SLEC and with the assistance of OvM. The master plan for the
further electrification of the provincial centers will be prepared by OvM.
For the required improvement of its financial management and accounting
procedures, SLEC is soliciting proposals from a number of accounting
firms. The overall arrangements for project execution of SLEC's component
of the project are satisfactory. The construction schedule is given in
Annex 3.
3.08      As indicated in para. 2.14 the Government, being responsible for
further preparation work for the Bumbuna project, contracted the Italian
Consultant Studio G. Pietrangeli to carry out comparisons of basic va-
riations for the Bumbuna scheme in order to update the studies previously
prepared by Carlo Lotti in 1972 (see para.2.13).   The report submitted
by Pietrangeli in 1975 has been analyzed and discussed with the Government,
in particular, regarding the feasibility of further phasing of the hydro-
electric scheme by deferring for a few years the construction of the Yiben
dam upstream of Bumbuna (see para.2.15).   This will be the main subject
of the investigations to be undertaken under the IDA financed project to
complete the feasibility studies. The committee responsible for further
preparation of the Bumbuna project (see para. 5.02) would select consultants
agreeable to IDA to perform this stage of the studies and in the next step
to study the selected alternative in such detail as required for prepara-
tion of bidding documents; the consultants' services would also include
drawing up the bidding documents.



- 13 -
Proposed IDA Credit
3.09      An IDA Credit to the Government of US$ 8.2 million is proposed;
the Government would relend US$ 7.1 million to SLEC. The loan to SLEC
would cover the foreign exchange component of the King Tom extension,
about 50% of related engineering services, and the cost of data processing
equipment. The Government would use the remaining US$ 1.1 million of the
IDA Credit to finance the foreign exchange component of the engineering
work for the project preparation of the Bumbuna hydropower plant.
Project Financing
3.10      The Table below set out the financial arrangements for the
project. In addition to the IDA Credit of US$ 8.2 million BADEA has agreed
to finance US$ 5.00 million of the SLEC component of the project (para. 6.17),
thus the total foreign exchange cost of the project, US$ 13.2 million, is
covered by foreign financing. The BADEA loan would finance the off-shore
and on-shore costs of (i) corrective measures at King Tom; (ii) first stage
of the 33 kV distribution; (iii) generating units for provincial centers;
(iv) consultants' services for provincial systems, financial aspects and
33 kV distribution; and (v) related contingencies. Some on-shore costs
have been included in the BADEA loan in order to utilize the full amount
of the loan. The foreign exchange thus obtained will be used by SLEC to
finance off-shore costs r:ot covered by foreign sources (see Annex 15).
Apportioning of external and local financing is shown in Annex 15.
IDA    BADEA      SLEC    Government  Total
… ______________ US S Million--------------
Project - SLEC                      7.10    5.00      1.58          -       13.68
Bumbuna Project Preparation         1.10       -        -         0.42       1.52
Total              8.20    5.00      1.58        0.42      15.20
% of Total                 54%      33%       10%        3%        100%



- 14 -
Procurement and Disbursement
3.11      Due to the urgent need for the prompt installation of the fourth
unit at King Tom which is required to improve the reliability of the extre-
mely poor supply in the Western System, SLEC, with the agreement of IDA
and under international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with
the Bank Group "Guidelines for Procurement",invited tenders for both equip-
ment and civil engineering works for the unit, and in December 1975, after
consultation with IDA, SLEC awarded the contracts. Data processing equip-
ment would be procured through international competitive bidding from
manufacturers having service facilities in Sierra Leone. Equipment to be
financed by BADEA would be procured after international competitive bidding.
3.12      The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed for the project items
as follows:
US$ Million
a) Equipment for King Tom extension (100% of off-shore costs)           6.08
b) Civil works for King Tom extension (60% of total costs)              0.55
c) Data processing equipment (100% of off-shore costs)                  0.20
d) Engineering services for King Tom extension (50% of
off-shore costs)                                                   0.27
e) Project preparation Bumbuna (100% of off-shore costs)                0.90
f) Contingencies                                                        0.20
Total IDA Credit                                         8.20
It is proposed that IDA retroactively finance the off-shore costs of payments
to both the supplier of the equipment and the civil works contractor for the
King Tom extension. Retroactive financing for these two items is estimated
at about US$ 5.7 million. The amount of retroactive financing proposed is
exceptionally large due to the fact that presentation of the proposed credit
to the Executive Directors was postponed until the Government took steps to
implement a satisfactory program to stabilize the economy. The appointment
of a Chief Engineer, acceptable to IDA, would be condition of disbursement
for the Bumbuna component of the IDA Credit (para. 5.02). Furthermore,
disbursement for the design stage of the Bumbuna project would be contingent
on the feasibility study establishing its viability.
3.13      Since the project comronent financed by IDA should be completed
by June 1979 a closing date of December 1979 is proposed to allow for late
disbursements requests. A disbursement schedule is given in Annex 5.



- 15 -
Environmental Impact
3.14      The diesel-electric unit proposed for installation in the King
Tom plant uses heavy fuel oil and some gas oil, i.e., fuels that are not
clean--burning. However, although, the plant is within the city limits
of Freetown, it is located on the seashore away from dense housing and
in a location where, most of the time, a fairly strong breeze efficiently
disperses the fumes of the engines. The units to be installed in the
provincial centers are so small that their utilization would have no
noticeable impact on the environment beyond a few yards of their site.
4. JUSTIFICATION
General
4.01      The project would help SLEC in its efforts to restore a measure
of reliability in supplying the electric power required for sustaining the
Sierra Leonean economy. Its implementation would give both the Government
and the utility time during which they would be able to investigate and
define the optimum solution for the facilities needed for the further
development of the sector. Failure to execute timely the proposed project
could result in widespread black-outs of the power system in Freetown,
with serious economic and social repercussion for the whole country.
Demand and Available Supply
4.02      In the Western System, the number of residential consumers has
increased by about 3% per year and the number of applications for new
connections indicates that the trend is persisting. However, due to the
large two-stage tariff increase of 1974/1i75, total residential consumption
(about 36% of total consumption) decreased slightly in FY 76, reflecting
a somewhat sharp decrease in consumption per connection. Nevertheless,
FY 77 results indicate that consumption per connection is slowly rising
again. It is estimated that only in FY 79 will consumption per connection
again reach the FY 75 level (see details in Annex 6).
4.03      SLEC's improvements in the past two years in terms of greater
reliability of service, modest as they were, have induced a substantial
number of potential non-residential users to request new or additional
supply from SLEC. During FY 77, connection of new non-residential load



- 16 -
reached 2.4 MW, and in late-FY 77, SLEC had a list of requests for this
new non-residential load of 9.6 MW to be connected in FYs 78 and 79.
This new load is relatively inelastic to the price of electricity and
would be affected little by the recent tariff increase.
4.04      Use of conservative assumptions for the development of the new
non-residential load and its contribution to the peak demand, together
with a small increase in existing load, leads to the projection of an
increase in peak demand and required gross generation from 16.2 MW and
92 GWh in FY 77 to 23 MW and 120 GWh respectively in FY 80. It is
further assumed that after FY 80 both load and generation growth would
slow-down to about 7% per year (see attachment 1 of Annex 6). The large
FYs 79 and 80 increases in peak load and gross generation are projected
because SLEC is expected to complete the installation of the new unit
at King Tom which will enable it to meet some of the demand which appears
to have been suppressed during FYs 74 to 77, as indicated by the unusally
high load factor experienced during these years. The actual (FYs 66-77)
and forecast (FYs 77-81) SLEC power generation and sales in the Western
System are shown in attachment 4 of Anrex 6.
4.05       The firm generating capacity available in SLEC's Western
System, once the ongoing rehabilitation work is completed but before the
proposed project is implemented, would be about 16.2 MW, which is of the
same order of magnitude as the peak load in FY 77. Thus, SLEC will have
a difficult time to meet expected demand in FY 78 until the project
components begin to become operational at the end of FY 78. Attachment
2 to Annex 6 shows graphically the projected unrestricted peak demand
and the capacity additions proposed to meet this demand until the
Bumbuna hydropower plant or alternative generating scheme is commissioned
in FY 85. As shown by the diagram, SLEC plans to add by early-1978
(FY 78) the project's fourth diesel-electric unit rated at 9.2 MW at
King Tom; a fifth unit of the same rating will be required at King Tom
by FY 82 to take care of load growth until Bumbuna is operational.
4.06       Additions to generating capacity for provincial centers allow
mostly for replacement of obsolete or worn-out equipment and at the same
time for a moderate increase in the supply potential. Projects under
construction are expected to add approximately 1.0 MW of load in FYs 79
and 80. SLEC's proposed program would take care of a demand growth of
10% for FYs 79, 80 and 81 and 7% per annum thereafter.



- 17 -
Least-Cost Solution
4.07      The choice of the type of machine proposed as the fourth unit for
King Tom was based on risk considerations and quantitative analysis of com-
parative costs between low-speed and medium-speed diesel-electric units.
The alternatives to the proposed low-speed unit would be one medium-speed
unit at King Tom or two smaller medium-speed units at another site; both
solutions would involve adoption of a more sophisticated technology with
which SLEC is unfamiliar and would, therefore, require additional expa-
triate personnel. Moreover, the medium-speed units would need to be stopped
for routine maintenance and overhaul far more frequently than low-speed
units, which also have the advantage of being more rugged. Given SLEC's
maintenance and reliability problems, an increase in the maintenance burden
would be highly undesirable.
4.08      Assuming that the foreign exchange involved is valued at 30% over
market price, numerical analysis shows that for all discount rates up to
15% the proposed solution of a low-speed diesel-electric unit is the least-
cost solution and would remain so even at investment cost for the medium-
speed units 17% lower than estimated. Annex 6 gives the details of the
analysis.
Return on Investment
4.09      With shadow pricing of the foreign exchange costs at 30% over
market price the internal rate of return on that part of the project con-
cerning the Western System (defined as the discount rate which equalizes the
stream of expected revenues attributable to the project with both the capital
and operating cost) is between 11% and 13%.  A sensitivity analysis shows, in
effect, that with a 10% increase in the undisbursed portior of the capital costs
and a 10% increase in fuel cost, the returns would be 12% instead of 13% computed
for the basic assumptions. With a 10% decrease in revenues it falls to 11%.
4.10      For the provincial systems' component of the project, the return is
estimated at 9%, assuming again that foreign currency costs are priced 30%
above market prices. An increase of 10% in capital costs or a 10% increase
in fuel cost would result in rates of 7% and 6% respectively. A decrease of
10% in revenues would result in a rate of return of 4%. These low rates of
return reflect the Government's policy of uniform tariffs throughout the
country despite differing supply conditions and costs, and the relatively
small size of the provincial systems compared with the Western System (see
para. 6.15).



- 18 -
4.11      The true economic return on the investment however, is undoubtedly
higher than suggested above because the rates which were taken as a proxy
for benefits, although high, underestimate the full benefits to consumers,
particularly those newly acceding to service.
5. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES
The Borrower
5.01      The Government of Sierra Leone would be the Borrower (see para.
3.09). It would administer and use itself that part of the proposed IDA
Credit (US$ 1.1 million or about 13%) which is allocated to the prepara-
tion of the Bumbuna Project.. Tt would relend the remainder of the Credit
to SLEC, under a subsidiary loan agreement (see para. 6.17).
Bumbuna Organization
5.02      An IDA mission has reviewed with the Government the arrangements
that should be employed for the implementation of the Bumbuna Project. In
view of (a) severe technical, managerial and, financial problems faced by
SLEC in order to achieve the objectives as outlined in para. 2.16, and
(b) the large size and complexity of the Bumbuna Project, the mission con-
cluded that SLEC would not be able to carry out the project. As an immediate
step towards planning the Bumbuna Project, a suitably qualified and expe-
rienced executive engineer should be appointed to attend to the planning
of the project and all preliminary activities including land acquisition,
establishment of a construction camp, planning of infrastructure work (water,
sewerage, electricity, and telephones for project camp/area), and related
coordination with the Government departments. The executive engineer should
operate under the general direction of a Bumbuna Project Development Committee
which the Government has taken steps to establish; the Committee comprises
representatives from the Ministries of Energy and Power, Development, Works,
Labor and Finance, SLEC, and the Chamber of Commerce, and in order to lend
the Committee the necessary authority, the Chairman is the Vice-President of
the Republic. The establishing of the Committee and the appointment of the
executive engineer would be a condition of disbursement for the Bumbuna part
of the Project.



- 19 -
5.03       Before the Bumbuna Project implementation, which is estimated
to commence in 18-24 months, it is intended to convert the Committee into
a more formal organization, such as an Authority. The Committee will
permit orderly planning of the project, at the same time giving ample
time to the Government to consider the scope and statutes of the Authority
which would implement and subsequently operate the Bumbuna Hydro-Electric
Project. The Authority would be set-up directly under the President of
Sierra Leone.
SLEC
5.04       Besides the Government, the beneficiary of the IDA Credit would
be SLEC, a Government corporation created in 1964 and vested with the
monopoly for generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity for
public use. In 1974, the Government modified the Act under which the
corporation operates, transferring the responsibility for the utility from
the Ministry of Works to the newly-formed Ministry of Energy and Power, and
abolishing SLEC's Board of Directors. SLEC's General Manager now reports
directly to the Minister of Energy and Power (see para. 2.06). Day-to-day
business is under the "direction and control" of the Minister. It appears
that the management has been gradually losirg authority over routine
operational matters, e.g. procurement and personnel. Ideally, the
Government should amend the Act to return the day-to-day management to the
General Manager. However, in view of the expatriate management, the Govern-
ment could not agree to this at this time. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that the General Manager, who is the
chief executive officer of SLEC, will be permitted to exercise his executive
and management responsibility fully and effectively.
Organization and Management
5.05       As indicated in para. 2.05, in mid-1974 the Government dismissed
the entire top management and contracted OvM for five years to provide five
specialists to manage the utility and to train Sierra Leonean counterparts.
Presently, SLEC is organized in five departments--Generation, Distribution,
Finance, Administration, and Personnel. The General Manager and the heads
of Generation, Distribution and Finance Departments are OvM staff.



- 20 -
5.06      The four members of the expatriate team forming SLEC's top manage-
ment (the fifth team member operates King Tom) are each supposed to have a
Sierra Leonean counterpart who in the longer term would take-over the expa-
triates' jobs. Three of these local staff have already been appointed and
are in their positions. However, although the counterpart to the head of
the Generation Department has been nominated, this appointment has not yet
been confirmed by the Government. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that the appointment of the remaining counterpart would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
Personnel and Training
5.07      By the end of FY 77, SLEC employed 1,365 persons (about 800 in the
Western System and the remaining 565 in the Provinces), which corresponds to
one employee per 18 connections. This is a very high ratio, and compares
with one per 45 in Senegal and one per 48 in Ivory Coast w1here, however, the
systems are much larger. Nevertheless, as rough as the indicator may be, it
clearly indicates substantial over-staffing in SLEC, mostly at lower levels.
Therefore, during negotiations SLEC and the Government agreed to freeze
SLEC's total staff at existing levels until a satisfactory staffing and
training plan has been agreed with IDA (see para. 5.08).
5.08      Despite the high number of employees, SLEC suffers an acute lack
of medium-level technical and accounting personnel. Various proposals have
been discussed with SLEC for filling these posts. SLEC expects to finalize
the proposals by December 31, 1977. During negotiations assurance were
obtained that SLEC would start implementing an agreed staffing and training
program by September 30, 1978, in agreement with IDA. This will include
assistance from (a) some electric utilities in training plant operators
and (b)accounting firms in training accountants.
Finance Department
5.09      The Finance Department's performance has not improved to the degree
expected since SLEC's new management has been in charge. The reasons seem
to relate mostly to the lack of qualified staff and to inadequate data pro-
cessing facilities. SLEC's management has correctly concluded that a major



- 21 -
review of financial management is necessary. It is soliciting proposals
from a number of accounting firms, to obtain the services of two accounting
specialists and a data processing specialist for a total period of about
48 man-months to review and implement improvements in accounting system,
data processing, staffing internal audit, budgeting, billing, purchasing,
and stores; in addition, the consultants would carry out revaluation of
SLEC's assets. The work will be undertaken in accordance with the terms
of reference approved by IDA (see Annex 8). To cover the foreign exchange
cost of the services, a sum of US$ 270,000 (equivalent to 48 man-months at
about US$ 5,600 per man-month) is included in the BADEA loan. A sum
of US$ 200,000 has been included for acquisition of the required accounting
machines. The required financial consultants would be engaged as a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed credit. The accounting machines
will be purchased after international competitive bidding from firms which
have local service facilities for the required type of equipment.
Accounts and Audit
5.10      In 1964, SLEC installed an accounting system as a condition for
Loan 388-SL; however, the system has not kept pace with changing require-
ments of SLEC and needs review (see para. 5.09). Lack of qualified senior
and middle-level accounting personnel and inadequate availability of the
Gcvernment data processing unit have contributed to the problem. SLEC is
now about fifteen months behind in its accounting. The consultants that
SLEC intends to hire would review the personnel and equipment problems
and assist in overcoming them.
5.11      SLEC has its accounts audited by the West African branch of the
firm of auditors Messrs. Peat, Marwick & Co. This arrangement is satis-
factory and may be continued. Under the terms of the existing agreements,
audited statements should be received by the Bank within four months after
completion of the fiscal year. In recent years, the preparation of accounts
and audit has been significantly delayed; the accounting consultants to be
employed (see para. 5.09) would address themselves to this problem and would
take steps to eliminate the delays. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that starting FY 78, the audited statements would be received by
IBRD/IDA within four months after completion of the fiscal year.



- 22 -
Billing and Collection
5.12      Although the new management has achieved considerable progress,
SLEC's billing system still needs improvement. Meter reading is generally
up-to-date in the Western Area, but the results of provincial meter readings
usually arrive two months late. The actual billing has been severely hampe-
red by frequent breakdown of the Government's computer system which is
being used by SLEC. The consultants to be appointed (see para. 5.09) would
review the billing operations; improvements are expected within a year.
5.13      In past years the accounts receivable have been high (see para.
6.04). This is due in part to the billing problems, and in part to the
fact that the public sector as well as a portion of domestic consumers have
been persistently in arrears. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that the Ministry of Finance would pay electricity bills promptly
and fully for all Government departments. With regard to the autonomous
Government bodies, it was further agreed that SLEC would have full power to
disconnect them if they fail to pay their bills within 60 days after issue
thereof. The Government may agree with SLEC on a list of selected autonomous
bodies for which the above disconnection policy would not apply, in which
case the Ministry of Finance would make full and prompt payment on their
behalf if direct payments are not made within 60 days. The Government and
autonomous bodies' payments will be watched closely through periodic reports
and supervision. SLEC's recently introduced active and relatively success-
ful disconnection policy should be sufficient to bring domestic consumer
debts to a minimum.
Insurance
5.14      SLEC has comprehensive insurance coverage from the Government-owned
National Insurance Company which includes (a) fire and consequential loss on
all its important generation, transmission, and distribution assets and head-
quarters building, (b) vehicles, and (c) workman's compensation. Reinsurance
is obtained overseas in order to ensure settlement of claims in appropriate
currency. SLEC has recently reassessed its insurance coverage with the help
of an expert and is now in the process of adjusting its coverage. The above
arrangement is satisfactory.



- 23 -
6. SLEC FINANCES
Financial Data
6.01       The latest available audit (FY 75) is qualified.  The audited
figures can be taken as indicative of order of magnitude only. Preli-
minary financial statements for FYs 76 and 77 presented in this report
are based on monthly cash flow statements with SLEC has prepared. Future
revenues, operating expenses, level of profitability, assets and liabi-
lities have been calculated on the basis of assumptions outlined in
Annex 13, but since they are essentially extrapolations based on the past
figures, they are also only indicative of order of magnitude. Neverthe-
less, the data base is reliable enough to form a basis for the judge-
ments made below. Measures to improve data collection and processing
are indicated in para. 5.09.
Past Finances and Present Financial Position
6.02      Between 1964 when SLEC was established and FY 71, SLEC's financial
performance was satisfactory; the rate of return averaged over the 8% requi-
red by the agreements for Loans 388-SL and 553-SL. During FYs 72 through
75, however, SLEC's financial performance deteriorated seriously. The
growth of energy sales was sluggish; annual changes in sales varied between
actual decline in FY 72 to 8% increase in FYs 73 and 74. From FY 64 to
mid-FY 75, tariffs were unchanged and additional revenues from higher sales
were inadequate to offset annual increases in operating expenses. The main
reason for the high annual increase in operating expenses, and particularly
the increases in FY 74 and FY 75 was the large world wide increase in price of
fuel and particularly the high price charged to SLEC (see para. 6.11). SLEC's
rate of return dropped to 2.7% in FY 72 and was negative during FY 73, FY 74
and FY 75. Losses resulted in erosion of SLEC's equity from Le 6.3 million
in FY 71 to Le 2.8 million in FY 75. Outstanding foreign loans in terms of
local currency have increased with the devaluation of the Leone in relation
to the borrowed currencies, and this combined with erosion of equity, re-
sulted in the under-capitalization of SLEC. In order to keep SLEC operating
and prevent financial failure, the Government had to advance on interest
free basis an estimated Le 7.2 million (US$ 6.6 million) to SLEC during
FY 74-76. Some of this was necessary to service external debt.



- 24 -
6.03      Based on the recommendations of SLEC's new management, the
Government allowed SLEC to increase its tariff in three stages (Septer.ber
1974, January 1975 and 1977) from 0.045 to 0.109 Le/kWh to improve the
Corporation's financial position. Accordingly, audited figures for FY 75
show a 63% increase in operating revenues over the previous fiscal year;
and from FY 75 to FY 76 revenues grew by another 35%. The rate of return
is estimated to be about 1.4% in FY 76 rising to 9.7% in FY 77, compared
to the 8% required by the agreements for Loans 388-SL and 553-SL.
6.04       During FY 74, 75 and 76 while contributing massively to sup-
port SLEC, the Government stopped paying its bills for electricity consu-
med and previously agreed amounts for losses on provincial operations--these
totalled about Le 3.1 million as of March 31, 1976. On the other hand, the
Le 7.2 million of Government support remained as current liability on the
books of SLEC. As a first step to improving SLEC's financial position and
capitalization, the Government has agreed to offset the mutual claims and
has agreed to transfer the balance in its favor of Le 4.1 million to
equity. This settlement has been considered in this report and will be
shown in the FY 1976 audited accounts. The Government has also recently
paid SLEC arrears of about Le 1.0 million in respect of electricity con-
sumed by Government departments during the last 6 months of FY 77.
6.05       A summary of SLEC's estimated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 1977
is given below:
(in millions)
Le        US$         %
Assets
Net Fixed Assets                  12.3        10.6        50
Works in Progress                  8.0         6.9        32
Current Assets                     4.4         3.8        18
24.7       21.3       100
Liabilities
Equity                             7.5         6.5        30
Long-Term Debt                    14.3        12.3        58
Current Liabilities                2.9         2.5        12
24.7       21.3       100



- 25 -
6.06      The present financial position is satisfactory except for the
fact that the Government owes SLEC an estimated Le 0.48 million compensa-
tion for losses on the provincial system during FY 77. Accordingly,
payment of the arrears for the provincial losses will be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
6.07      The Government's equity in SLEC has been represented by
irredeemable Loan Stock 'A' which earns specified interest. Since this
stock is meant and understood to represent equity, the stock should be
redesigned accordingly. This would clarify SLEC's legal obligations
towards the Government. During negotiations, the Government agreed to
redesignate the stock accordingly prior to September 30, 1977. It was
also agreed during negotiations that until IDA otherwise agree SLEC will
consult the Association before declaring any dividend. If the projected
favorable financial situation materializes, it will be possible for SLEC
to start paying some dividends to the Government starting FY 80.
6.08      Sometime ago, a proposal was made by the Government that the Guma
hydroplant, which is owned by the Guma Valley Authority, be transferred to
SLEC. In view of (a) zero-firm capacity of the Guma hydroplant (para. 2.08)
and (b) SLEC's weak financial position, SLEC is unable to assume financial
responsibility for this plant. Accordingly, during negotiations the
Government agreed not to transfer the financial responsibility for the plant
to SLEC; however, SLEC could continue to operate the plant as an agent of
the Government.
Valuation of Assets and Depreciation Policy
6.09      In view of the depreciation of the Leone and general inflation,
over last several years, SLEC's fixed assets are undervalued and need to
be revalued. For purposes of the financial statements presented in this
report, the book values have been adjusted on the basis of the revaluation
of long-term debt outstanding as of March 31, 1976. In view of the defi-
ciencies in SLEC's finance department (see paras. 5.09 and 5.10), which
the proposed financial consultant should help eliminate, it would be un-
realistic to assume that a proper and full revaluation of assets could be
completed before the end of FY 79. Therefore, during negotiations, SLEC
agreed to annually revalue its assets in accordance with procedures acceptable
to IDA by the end of FY79. This would be done with the assistance of the
proposed financial consultants.



- 26 -
6.10      SLEC's present depreciation rates are almost identical to those
of the US Federal Power Commission. Under the circumstances prevailing
in Sierra Leone, some of these rates are too low, and this has led to over-
statement of operating income in the past. On a composite basis, SLEC's
depreciation rate has not exceeded 4.5% in the past; a composite rate of
about 5% would reflect the life expectancy of SLEC's assets more realisti-
cally and such a composite rate has been used in calculating the financial
forecasts contained in this report. During negotiations, SLEC agreed to
revise its depreciation policy in a manner satisfactory to IDA starting
the current fisca'l year (FY 78).
Cost of Fuel
6.11       During FY 75 SLEC paid Le 3.7 million (US$ 3.2 million) for fuel;
this represented 58% of its operating revenue. The main reason for the
high ratio has been the high price of fuel charged to SLEC as compared to
the price for similar fuel in neighboring countries. The price is partly
explained by (a) small size of the refinery (10,000 barrels/day) which is
presently operating at about 40% of its capacity (b) medium-term (7 years)
financing of the refinery with consequent large debt service payments, and
(c) the high mark up charged to SLEC by the distributors. The distributors
have an exclusive agreement with the refinery which is owned 51% by the
Government and 49% by five international oil companies, one of which has
the management contract. For the last year the Association has been dis-
cussing with the Government various ways of reducing fuel prices to SLEC.
The Government has been unable to obtain outright reduction in local
currency terms in view of various contractual agreements with the oil
companies. It has, however, been successful in maintaining the prices
at early 1976 levels. In view of depreciation of the Leone during the
last year and actual increase in the price of fuel on the international
market, the price stability for SLEC in local currency terms has in fact
meant effective reduction in dollar terms. Thus the gap in prices paid
by SLEC and those prevailing in the neighboring countries has been reduced.
In order to ensure that SLEC will not continue to be penalized for the un-
economic refinery, and the Government's existing agreements with the five
oil companies, assurance has been obtained from the Government that the
current price to SLEC will be maintained at least until December 31, 1977.
Thereafter, increases if any, shall not exceed the increase in the world
market price of fuel, on a basis to be agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower.



- 27 -
Tariffs
6.12      The tariff structure is based on a tariff study carried out by
consultants in 1974 and updated in 1976. The tariff schedule distinguishes
basically between residential and non-residential consumers. It consists
of six consumer categories--Residential, Non-residential up to 15 kW,
Non-residential 15 kW and above but low tension, Non-residential high tension,
Street Lighting, and Temporary supply. The structure is simple and avoids
difficulty in borderline cases between traditional categories, e.g., indus-
trial and commercial. Annex 7 shows the existing rates for each category
in local currency and the US$ equivalent. The present tariff structure is
satisfactory.
6.13       In view of its tight financial position and low rate of return
during FY 76 (1.4%), SLEC's tariffs were increased to yield approximately
15% higher revenues effective January 1, 1977. The higher tariffs are
reflected in an estimated return of 9.7% on assets as presently valuated
for the year ending March 31, 1977. Presently, the average price per kWh
is a high Le 0.109 (US 9.3c). It is explained by (a) the high price of
fuel, the Government's inability to reduce it to the level prevailing in
neighboring countries and (b) almost complete dependence on thermal gene-
ration.
6.14       Agreement was reached during negotiations that in order to ensure
continued financial viability of SLEC, it should earn an annual rate of
return of 10% on its assets as presently valued. Upon completion of the
asset revaluation exercise in FY 79, SLEC should earn not less than 8%
on its revalued assets beginning in FY 80. The present financial projec-
tions indicate that in order to achieve the required rate of return, SLEC
would require tariff increases, or equivalent cost reductions of 10%,
effective January 1, 1978 and 13% effective April 1, 1981.
6.15      It is Government policy to use uniform tariffs throughout the
country despite differing supply conditions and, as a condition of the
previous loans, the Government agreed that it would compensate SLEC for
losses on provincial operations at a fixed rate of Le 70,000 a year. Even
with the proposed tariff increases and stabilized fuel cost, losses on
provincial operations are expected to be substantially higher. Accordingly,
during negotiations, the Government agreed to compensate SLEC for any losses
which might occur on an actual basis, determined in accordance with normal
accounting procedures beginning in FY 77. Payment of FY 77 loss, estimated
at Le 0.48 million will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit.



- 28 -
Financing Plan
6.16      SLEC's capital investment and working capital requirements during
the FY 77-80 period, along with the sources from which they would be met,
are summarized in the financing plan below. The plan is based on (i) 10%
tariff adjustment effective January 1978; (ii) payment of arrears by the
Government as outlined in para. 6.06; and (iii) other general assumptions
outlined in Annex 13.
Financing Plan - FY 77-80
Le Million    US$ Million       %
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation               14.9          12.8           63
Less: Debt Service                       6.3          5.4           26
Net Internal Cash Generation             8.6          7.4           37
Long-Term Borrowing:
-  IDA                              8.3           7.1            35
-  BADEA                            5.8           5.0            25
-  Other                            0.8           0.7             3
Total Long-Term Borrowing              14.9          12.8            63
Total                          23.5          20.2           100
Application of Funds
Proposed Project
-  Foreign                         14.1          12.1            60
- Local                             1.8           1.6             8
Other Works                              2.2          1.9             9
Total Construction                     18.1          15.6            77
Increase in Working Capital             4.0           3.4            17
Possible Dividends                       1.4          1.2             6
Total                          23.5          20.2           100



- 29 -
6.17      It is assumed that US$ 7.1 million of the proposed IDA Credit
would be relent to SLEC at 8.5% interest, with repayment over 20 years
including 4-1/2 years of grace. The BADEA loan to the Government at 4%
interest with repayment over 15 years including five years grace, has
been approved in principle by the BADEA Board; during negotiations, the
Government indicated that it would be relent to SLEC at 8.5% interest with
repayment over 15 years including five years grace. Satisfactory execution
of the BADEA loan (see para. 3.12) would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed Credit to the Board.
6.18      The financing plan shows a foreign exchange gap of US$ 0.7
million over the period FY 77-80; this relates to several minor works in
SLEC's FY 77-80 investment program. Assurances were obtained during the
negotiations that the required funds would be provided by the Government
to SLEC on terms satisfactory to IDA as and when required.
6.19      In view of the financial position of SLEC and as protection for
the financing plan, SLEC agreed during negotiations to consult with IDA
during FY 78-80 before undertaking any capital expenditure not included
in the present construction program (Annex 4), which in any one year would
exceed US$ 100,000 equivalent, from its own resources.
Future Financial Position
6.20      The financial forecasts for SLEC for FYs 78-82 are shown in
Annexes 9 through 12; they have been prepared on the basis of detailed
assumptions outlined in Annex 13. As outlined in para. 6.14, revenue in-
creases or cost reductions of 10% effective January 1, 1978 and 13%
effective April 1, 1981 have been assumed. On the basis of these assump-
tions, SLEC is expected to achieve the following operating results during
the period FY 78-82.
(in Le '000)                     FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82
Energy Sales (GWh)                     99      109     120      130      139
Operating Revenue                  11,419  13,212  14,735  16,071  19,129
Fuel Cost                           4,136   4,525   5,316   6,237   7,203
Total Operating Costs               9,622  10,460  11,849  13,369  15,784
Operating Ratio (%)                    84       79      80       83       83
Rate of Return (%)                   10.6    13.2    12.8    10.8    10.3
Debt Service Coverage Ratio           2.5      2.3      2.3     2.0      2.0
Debt/Equity Ratio                   66/34   66/34   68/32   71/29   77/23



- 30 -
6.21      Energy sales and operating revenues are expected to increase
by average annual rates of 8% and 14.5% respectively. Total operating
costs are expected to increase at an average rate of about 13% a year.
The rate of return on average net fixed assets in operation (without
revaluation) will be above the required 10% in each of the years during
FY 78-82. Debt service coverage will be at least 2.1 times in each year
over the period; this would be satisfactory. The debt/equity ratio
should start to increase in FY 80 at which time a review of SLEC's capi-
talization may be required. SLEC should have an adequate cash balance
in each of the forecast years. It may be possible for SLEC to start
paying some dividends to its owner (the Government) starting in FY 80.
The projected cash balance may be needed to finance the local costs of
the next phase of development work. With implementation of all the
measures agreed during the negotiations, the overall financial position
of SLEC should be satisfactory.  Indicators to measure SLEC's perfor-
mance are given in Annex 14.
6.22      During negotiations, SLEC agreed that no new long-term loans
would be incurred without consulting IDA, unless the maximum total
future debt service is covered 1.5 times by SLEC's operating income
before depreciation.
7.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a)  SLEC's General Manager will be permitted to exercise his
executive and management responsibilities fully and
effectively (para. 5.04);
(b)  SLEC's staff will not be increased until a satisfactory
staffing and training plan has been agreed with IDA
(para. 5.07);



- 31 -
(c) The Ministry of Finance will pay future electricity
bills promptly and fully for all Government departments.
SLEC shall have full power to disconnect autonomous
bodies if they fail to pay their bills within 60 days.
The Government may agree with SLEC on a list of autono-
mous bodies for which the above disconnection policy
will not apply, in which case the Ministry of Finance
will make payment on their behalf if direct payments
are not received within 60 days (para. 5.13);
(d) SLEC's Loan Stock 'A' would be redesignated as equity
not later than September 30, 1977 (para. 6.07);
(e)  Financial responsibility for the Guma hydroplant would
not be transferred to SLEC (para. 6.08);
(f) The price of fuel to SLEC will be maintained at least
December 31, 1977; thereafter, increases if any shall
not exceed the increase in the world price of fuel
(para. 6.11);
(g) SLEC will be allowed to revise its tariffs from time to
time in order to earn at least a 10% rate of return
until the end of FY 79; after revaluation a revised
rate would be set to achieve, starting FY 80, not less
than 8% (para. 6.14);
(h) Losses on provincial operations would be subsidized on
an actual basis (para. 6.15); and
(i) The required financing for minor works will be made
available to SLEC as and when required (para. 6.18).
7.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from SLEC that:
(a) It would start implementing a program of staffing and
training by September 30, 1978 (para. 5.08);
(b) Steps would be taken to ensure that the annual audit
will be completed within four months after the close of
the fiscal year (para. 5.11);
(c) Assets will be revalued fully by the end of FY 79 and
kept revalued annually (para. 6.09);
(d)  Depreciation policy will be revised starting FY 78 (para. 6.10)



- 32 -
(e) IDA will be consulted before SLEC undertakes during
FY 77-80 any additional capital expenditures which
in any one year would exceed US$ 100,000 equivalent
from its own resources (para. 6.20);
(f) A limitation on long-term debt will be observed
(para. 6.22); and
(g) IDA will be consulted before payment of dividends
(para. 6.07).
7.03      The following conditions of effectiveness of the credit are
recommended.
(a) The remaining counterpart to expatriate managers shall have
been appointed (para. 5.06);
(b) Financial consultants will be appointed (para. 5.09);
(c) Government shall have paid an estimated Le. 0.48 million
to SLEC for loss suffered on operation of provincial
systems during FY 77 (para. 6.06); and
(d)  The BADEA loan will have been signed (para, 6.17).
7.04      Before disbursement could commence on that part of the project
relating to Bumbuna, the Government would establish Bumbuna Development
Committee and appoint a suitable Executive Engineer (para. 5.02).
7.05      Disbu.rsement for the design phase of that part of the project
relating to the Bumbuna project would be contingent on the feasibility
study establishing its viability (para. 3.12).
7.06      On the basis of the above arrangements, the project is suitable
for a credit of US$ 8.2 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3 pages
SIERRA LEONE
Third Power Project
Existing Facilities of SLEC
Generating Facilities in Freetown (see also Appendix 1)
1.        SLEC's main generating facility in Freetown is the King Tom plant
where three 6.6 MW low speed diesel units which were financed under the
previous Bank loans are installed. These sea water-cooled 130.5 RPM, two
stroke, MAiN-AEG marine diesel-electric sets, are extremely sturdy; their
quality alone, has prevented the bad reliability of supply record from falling
even further. In 60 months ending December 1975, unit 1 was available for 55
months, unit 2 for about 40 months and unit 3 only for 22 months. As bad as
this record may appear it cannot be held against the diesel units because most
of the interruptions were due to faults not directly related to the engines.
Several times major damage on the stator of the electric generators has
occurred because of the failure of the electrical protection of the units or
because of the lack of proper protective devices ( lightning arresters) and
sound operating procedures. The longest outage, more than two years-for
unit 3, was due to a fault involving the generator's stator windings which
caused extensive armature damage and could only be repaired by sending the
unit back to the manufacturer in Germany; administrative inefficiencies and
controversies about responsibility for the damage lengthened the delay. No
serious study has been done so far to ascertain the causes of the mishaps nor
of measures to prevent repetition of these breakdowns. In the Bong mines in
neighboring Liberia, where the power plant consists of eight diesel-electric
units of the same type as those of SLEC, similar difficulties have been ex-
perienced with the electric generators (manufactured by AEG) of the first three
units installed; in that particular case the cause of outages were attributed
to low insulation resistance due to moisture condensation in that very humid
tropical climate.
2.        The King Tom units should be overhauled every 8,000 hours of service,
i.e., about every 14 months at the normal running rate; such an overhaul would
take about four to six weeks, but during the long outage of unit 3 (see para. 1),
units 1 and 2 could not be taken out of operation.  SLEC's OvM management team
is now giving maintenance of the units first priority, even at the risk of
occasional load shedding; unit 1 was overhauled entirely in October/November
1975 after running a total of 56,000 hours and more than 16,000 hours since
the previous overhaul; unit 2 was submitted to maintenance in January 1976,
after running 13,000 hours since the previous major maintenance, and unit 3
was overhauled in June 1976; onwards overhauls will take place in accordance
with normal practice, i.e., after each 8,000 to 10,000 hours of operation.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
Thus, it appears reasonable to assume that from about mid-1976 King Tom will
have a firm capacity of 13.2 MW (two units).
3.        At the Falconbridge plant, the three old high-speed diesel sets
(total nameplate rating 2.8 MW) are obsolete, the two 1.5 MW units are new.
Therefore, only about 3.0 MW of nearly 6 MW installed can be considered
reasonably firm.
4.        At the Blackhall Road plant, the three steam units totalling 4 MW
are entirely obsolete, worn out, and highly uneconomical to run when they are
in a state to do so. Two 0.5 MW diesel sets bought by Government for the
provinces but installed as an emergency measure in the Blackhall Road plant,
are of toc small a rating to work properly in parallel with the large King
Tom units, and tend to be disconnected with the slightest disturbances in the
grid. Therefore, for all practical purposes, the firm capacity of the Black-
hall Road plant is nil.
5.        The Guma reservoir in the mountains near Freetown is the main water
supply of the Capital. SLEC can use the hydroplant connected with this re-
servoir, only when there is surplus water. With increasing water supply demand
this surplus is dwindling and eventually will disappear. The plant had been
out of order during FY's 75 and 76, however, it was repaired in late FY 76 and
therefore may provide power for some years to come during the rainy season and,
a capacity of about 2 MW. The firm capacity of this plant is, therefore, also
nil.
6.        In summary, by mid-1976 (FY77) the firm capacity available to SLEC
to meet the demand in the Western system is of 16.2 MW which is already less
than the unrestricted peak demand of March 1975 (FY 76). Under these circum-
stances, until a new unit is commissioned, SLEC will have to try to apply all
its ingenuity to keep its worn-out units in reasonable condition so that they
may work in emergencies.
Distribution Facilities in Freetown
7.        Primary distribution in Freetown is done directly at the generating
voltage of the King Tom units, i.e. 11 kV. The system is grounded (through
a resistor) at only one point, which is the neutral of any one of the three
units at King Tom; the other units are kept with floating neutrals. Freetown's
primary distribution arrangement is radial with tie and sectionalizing switches
to provide for restoration of service to consumers on unfaulted feeder sections.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
The primary system is made up of (a) underground circuits (interconnectors)
connecting the three power plants and also three switching substations, and
(b) primary feeders, mostly underground, which radiate from both power plants
and switching substations. Secondary distribution is of 230/400 volts, four-
wire, neutral grounded, overhead construction, and in one highly congested
area it is underground. The secondary circuits are radial, fed from indoor
distribution transformers in installations that follow European practice.
8.        The industrial area of Freetown is located about 16 km to the east
of the city relatively far apart from SLEC's main source of generation, the
King Tom power plant. The distance, from the plant to the industrial area,
is excessive for 11 kV distribution; voltage regulation difficulties (high
voltage drop) are being experienced and 33 kV feeding is now envisaged.
SLEC's in-house consultants, OvM, recently presented a preliminary proposal
for interconnecting at 33 kV all power plants and switching substations, but
this appears to be far more than what SLEC requires on a medium-term basis
and more than it would be able to finance. Nevertheless, the 33 kV feeding
of the industrial area is considered necessary as a first stage of the 33 kV
distribution system envisaged by OvM. The installation of a 33 kV feeder
would also increase the reliability of the supply to the major industrial
loads in Freetown presently depending on two 11 kV underground cables liable
to damage, given the uncontrolled way excavations are done throughout the
city.
SLEC's Facilities in Provinces
9.        Attachment 2 gives the main characteristics of the generating
systems in provincial centers. Reliability of service in most of these systems
is low and maintenance of equipment has only recently being reassumed. Proper
operation of equipment remains a serious problem which will have to be over-
come by appropriate training of power plants personnel now being undertaken
by SLEC's management team.



Appendix 1 to
ANNEX 1
Generating Plants in the Western System
Capacity
Plant            Number and Size    Type of Units        Year of         Fuel Consumption       Fuel and        Reliably
of Units                         Commissioning    Imp. gal/kWh          Lubricant cost    Available
FY                                  Leone/kWh    "Firm Capacity"
King Tom            2 x 6.6 MW         Diesel (Marine)    1964               0.059               0.0312             13.2 MW
1 x 6.6 MW        Diesel (Marine)    1970                0.059               0.0312
Falconbridge        3 x 0.975 MW       Diesel              1962              0.0825              0.053               3.0 MW
2 x 1.50 MW       Diesel               1976              0.0652              0.0405
Blackhall Road      2 x 0.75 MW        Stearm              1944
1 x 1.50 MW        Steam               1953              0.143               0.074
1 x 2.00 MW        Steam               1960
2 x 0.475 MW      Diesel               1975              0.082               0.053
Guma Valley         1 x 2.4 MW        Hydro                1967               -                  -
April, 1977



Appendix 2 to
ANNEX I
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Existing and Planned Installed Capacity
Provincial Systems
Installation Date                Peak Load
Irovincial Centers            Make of Diesel Unit        Capacity          Actual    Planned           Jan./75    Jan./77
kW              FY          FY               kW          kW
Bo                            Mirless                     2 x 1000         1965         -                1120         930
Ronthe                        Lister J.K.4               4 x   22 2/       1958                            74          81
Lister Blackstone                60         1975
100                    1979
F.ahala                        English Electric                 58         1971                           120         120
Caterpillar                     150         1972
100                    1979
Failah-n                       English Electric           2 x   58         1972                            86          86
2 x  lOO                     1979                            80 3/
Kambia                         Lister Blackstone                50         1957                            55          55
Ford                             44         1976
100                    1979
Lungi                         Lister Blackstone           3 x  140 2/      1958                           401         280
Lister Blackstone               380         1967                                       300 3/
500                     1979
Magburaka                      Blackstone                 2 x  133 2/      1951                           210         210
Lister Blackstone               140         1953
100                    1979
Makeni                         Lister Blackstone               140 2/      1958                           514         424
English Electric                266         1964                                       500 3/
Dorman                          500         1974
1000                    1979
Floyamba                       Lister Blackstone          2 x   50 2/      1958                           138         122
L.ister Blackstone              140         1959
100                    1979
Port loko                      Lister Blackstone                50         1957                           260         283
Lister Blackstone               140         1961
Lister Blackstone               250         1958
Puienum                       Modag                             58 2/      1962                            52         100
100                    1979
Rokupr                         Perkins                    3 x   60         1976                            66          66
Kenema                        Man                         3 x 1000 1/      1972                          1380        1240
Koidu                          Man                        2 x 1000 1/      1972                          1940        1480
Dorman                          500         1976
1/ Installed under previous Bank loan.
2/ Worn-out or obsolete.
3/ Expected increase due to projects under construction.
April, 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3 pages
SIERRA LEONE
Third Power Project
Description of the Project
Sierra Leone's third power project, to be carried out during
FYs 77-80, comprises:
A.   Key components of SLEC's FY 77/82 development
program; and
B.   The project preparation for the Bumbuna hydro-
electric development.
Part A - SLEC Project
Part A, which will be carried out by SLEC, is made up of four
basic items: (i) extension of generating and distribution facilities in
Freetown; (ii) installation of data processing equipment; (iii) exten-
sion of generating facilities in provincial centers; and (iv) consultants'
services for (i) and (iii) and for strenghtening financial management of
SLEC.
(i) Extension of Generating and Distribution Facilities in Freetown
(a) The addition of a fourth unit to the King Tom power plant
in Freetown. The new unit will be a 9.2 MW 150 RPM marine
diesel-electric set designed for fuel oil having a visco-
sity of approximately 1,500 sec. Redwood I/1000 F. The
engine will be a turbo-charged two stroke cycle compression
ignition diesel engine. The equipment will include switching
devices and all necessary electrical and mechanical auxi-
liairies. Power from this unit will be fed directly to the
Freetown 11 kV underground distribution through the existing
station buss, which will be extended three switching panels,
and through a 10 MVA step-up transformer to the new 33 kV
distribution system.
(b) The construction of the first stage of the proposed 33 kV
distribution for the Western system which will form a direct
link between the King Tom power plant and the industrial area.
It would consist of two 7 km-185 mm2 underground cables



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3 pages
between the King Tom and Blackhall Road plants to be
connected to the existing 9 km of 33 kV overhead line
which is being operated at 11 kV. A 10 MVA step-up
transformer mentioned in (a) will be installed at
King Tom with switching and protective equipment. At
the extreme end of the overhead line a step-down sub-
station of the same rating will be installed in
addition to a 11 kV switching substation. The route
for the link goes through a congested section of the
city where, owing to the very limited clearances and
dangers from traffic, overhead construction is not
advisable.
(c)   A study of the causes of stator windings failure on
the three existing generators at King Tom; of their
protective schemes and of the measures to be taken
to prevent repetition of such mishaps; procurement
and installation of such protective devices and proper
setting and coordination of protective relaying. A
specialist will be hired to assist SLEC in ascertain-
ing the origin of the mishaps and in the planning and
implementation of advisable protective measures.
(ii) Data Processing Equipment
SLEC has been using for customers' billing and general
accounting a Government computer center. The expe-
rience with this arrangement has not been satisfactory
due to the unreliability of the existing computer.
SLEC, therefore, has been forced to process customers'
billing by hand; in addition, its accounts are behind
schedule by two years. A recent survey of SLEC's
requirements for customers' billing, inventory records,
and general accounting indicates that these could be
met by half-a-dozen accounting machines for which
service is available in Freetown.
(iii) Extension of Generating Facilities in Provincial Centers
(a)   The addition of a 1,000 kW medium-speed diesel-electric
set at Makeni's generating power plant.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3 pages
(b) The addition of a 500 kW medium-speed diesel-electric
set at Lung, site of Sierra Leone's International
Airport.
(c) The addition of eight 100 kW diesel-electric units for
Kabala, Bonthe, Kailahum, Kambia, Magburaka, Moyamba
and Pujehun.
(iv) Employment of Consultants for:
(a) The planning, procurement and construction supervision
of the extension of generating facilities in provincial
centers and for the preparation of a masterplan for the
orderly development of these systems.
(b) The planning, procurement and construction supervision
of the King Tom extension and of the 33 kV distribution.
The planning task comprises the entire proposed 33 kV
scheme while the procurement and construction supervision
refer only to the first stage to be carried out within
the project.
(c) The improvement of SLEC's financial management and
accounting procedures.
Part B - Project Preparation for the Bumbuna Hydro-Electric Development
This part of the project will be executed by a separate organization
to be set up by Government, with assistance from consulting engineering firms.
The work comprises:
(a) The updating and completion of the existing feasibility
studies of the Bumbuna hydro-electric power scheme, par-
ticularly on the technical and economic viability of a
first stage, which will have to be identified; and
(b) The design studies for the selected first stage and the
preparation of tender documents. The execution of this
work would be contingent on the Bank being satisfied on
the economic viability of the first stage of the scheme.



SIERRA LEONE
THIRD POWER PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION TIME-SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR        197             1976     [     1977           1978           1979           1980
SIERRA LEONE FISCAL YEAR             76           FY7            FY78           FY9FY80                      F8
KING TOM EXTENSION:
PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS
BID PROCESS
CIVIL WORKS-
EQUIPMENT 
33KV DISTRIBUTION:
PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS-
BID PROCESS
EQUIPMENT
INSTALLATION-
GENERATING UNITS FOR PROVINCES:
PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS
BID PROCESS
EQUIPMENT
INSTALLATION
PROJECT PREPARATION
BUMBUNA HYDROPOWER SCHEME:
COMPLETION OF FEASIBILITY STUDIES                                                                                                         z
ENGINEERING DESIGN AND BIDDING 
DOCUM ENTS
WVorld Bank-1 7368



ANNEX 4
SIERRA LEONE
TIIIRD POWER PROJECT
SLE    - INVESTMENT FROGRAM FYT  1977-1982
--- in trillion troo-se
Fiscal Year Endng M-arch 31            Total Progran FYT  1977-1982                    1977                             1978                              1979                              1980                               1981                           1982
On-Shore   Off-Shore   Total    On-Shore   Rff-Shore   ToEl    On-Share   off-shorn   Total    On-Shore   off-Shore   Total    On-Shore   Off-Shore   Total    On-Shore   Uff-Shore   Total  On-Share  Off-Shore  Total
Proposed Proijet
1. Foorth Unit Riog Too
a) eqoipment                         0.14         7.07      7.21       -           5.80       5.80       0.14         1.27      1.41
b) civil  -orka                      0.41        0.64       1.05       0.27        0.58       0.85       0.14         0.06      0.20
sub-tEtal                        0.55         7.71       8.26       0.27        6.38       6.65       0.28         1.33      1.61
2. Cameoctine Measuree at Kins Toe    -               0.23      0.23       -     -                -          -            0.23       0.23
3.  33 hV Distnibhtion - Firet Stage   0.52           1.40      1.90       -            _         _          -            -          _         -            1.26       1.26      0.52         0.14       0.66
4. GEreratlof Enits Roe Frovioces        0.19         1.16       1.31      -            _         _          -            _          -         0.10         1.l6       1.26      0.09         -          0.09
5. Eaca Froessins  Eqoipmsent            -            0.23      0.23       -            -         _          -            0.23      0.23
6. tonaclants
a) pro-inial syatena                 0.06        0.12       0.18       -           -          -          0.06         0.12      0.1I
bh  fan-1nca                         0.00        0.31       00                                                        0.05      0.00       0.03         0.20       0.23      0.02        0.06        0.08
n) eogine-sing
- King Tom e--eaiIon             0.01         0.62       0.63       -           0.31       0.31       0.01         0.31      0.32
- 33 kV distribhtion             0.01         0.47       0.48                   -          -          0.01         0.47      0.48
Tontl Bar- Line Costs                    1.40        12.25     13.65       0.27        0.09       0.90       0.37         2.74      3.11       0.13         2.62       2.75       0.63         0.20      0.83
co-tingencies
Physical                            0.25         1.07       1.32       -                      _          0.08        ^.50       0.98       -            0.10       0.10      0.16         0.47       0.63
Price                               0.14         0.70       0.95       -           -          -          0.02        0.22       0.24       0.02         0.44       0.46      0.16         0.10       0.26
Total Proposed Froject                   1.84        14.08      15.92      0.27         6.69       6.96      0.47         3.46       3.93       0.15        3.16       3.31       0.95         0.77       1.72
Other Works
7. Dietribhtl-n Etreaione in
F eetowe                            0.70         1.15      1.85       -            -         -          0.20         0.05      0.25       0.05         0.05       0.10      0.15         0.35       0.50        0.15       0.35        0.50       0.15      0.35      0.50
8.  Distribhtion E.h .esions in
Preovi.es                           0.45        0.80       1.25       -            -         -          0.10         0.05      0.15       0.05         0.15       0.20      0.10         0.20       0.30        0.10       0.20        0.30       0.10      0.20      0.30
9. Farther Generatian Wesstrn Are-    0.56            8.33      8.89       --                                                                         -                -          -            -          -           0.14       2.08        2.22      0.42      6.25      6.67
10. Farther  . .nera.ion Frovinces       0.20         0.80       1.00      --                                                                               - _  _  _                                     -           0.10       0.40       0.50       0.10      0.40      0.50
11. 33 kV Distnlhution - Second Stage  0.20           1.00      1.20       _            -         _          -            _          _          _           _          _          _            _          -           -          0.50       0.50       0.20      0.50      0.70
7.11       12.08      14.19       -           _          _          0.30         0.10      0..100.lo               0.20       0.30      0.25         0.55       0.80        0.49       3.53        4.02       0.97      7.70      8.067
Esoalei-o-                           0.95        6.55       7.50       -            -         -          0.03         0.01       0.04       0.02        0.04       0.06       0.08         0.18       0.2h        0.23      1.62        1.85       0.59      4.70      5.29
Tonal 00hcr Works                    3.06       18.63      21.69       -           -          -          0.33         0.11       0.44      0.12         0.24       0.36       0.33         0.73       1.06        0.72       5.15        5.87       1.56    12.40    13.96
GRAND TOTAL PROGRAM                  4.90        32.71     37.01       0.27         6.69      6.96       0.80         3.57       4.37       0.27        3.40       3.67       1.28         1.50       2.78        0.72       5.15        5.87       1.56    12.40    13.90
April 6. 1977



ANNEX 5
SIERRA LEONE
Third Power Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Credit
--in million dollars--
Assumption
Loan Approval        June 30, 1977
Effective Date       September 30, 1977
Closing Date         December 31, 1979
IBRD/IDA                                 For SLEC's               For Project                          Cumulative Disbursement
Fiscal Year      Quarter Ending _  Component of Project    Preparation of Bumbuna            Total         at end of Quarter
1977/1978        December 31, 1977            6.52                      0.05                  6.57              6.57
March 31, 1978               0.58                      0.05                  0.63              7.20
June 30, 1978                -                         0.10                  0.10              7.30
197b/1979        Septenmber 30, 1978          -                         0.20                  0.20              7.50
December 31, 1978            -                         0.20                  0.20               7.70
March 31, 1978               -                         0.20                  0.20               7.90
June 30, 1978                -                         0.30                  0.30              8.20
1979/1980        September 30, 1979
December 31, 1979            -
7.10                      1.10                 8.20
April, 1977



ANNEX 6
SIERRA LEONE                  Page 1 of 5 pages
Third Power Project
Justification
The Load and Consumption Forecast - Western System
1.       The drastic tariff increases which the Government allowed SLEC
to apply in 1974 and 1975 boosted SLEC's average revenue per kWh from
Le 0.045 to Le 0.092: however, the increases also reduced substantially
the growth of consumption and, to a somewhat lesser extent, peak load
increase. All in all, the dampening effect of the price increases was
less strong than expected, and a resumption of stronger growth appears
already in sight (see para. below).
2.       The number of residential consumers has increased by 10% in the
past three years and judging from the applications for new connections as
of late FY77, the trend seems persistent. The projections summarized in
the table below reflect this trend and the fact that after decreasing for
about a year, per capita consumption started to grow again in the second
half of FY76. Nevertheless, it was assumed that only in FY79 would per
capita consumption again reach the FY75 level.
Number of        Annual Consumption      Annual Residential
Residential        Per Connection        ----Consumption---
FY            Connections             kWh               Gwh      % of Total
Actual
73               12,069               1,820              22         36%
74               12,497               1,920              24         36%
75               12,660               2,130              27         42%
76               13,540               1,850              25         36%
77               13,730               1,960              27         36%
Projected
78               14,185               2,040              29         37%
79               14,650               2,120              31         36%
80               15,130               2,200              33         34%
81               15,630               2,300              36         34%
82               16,150               2,400              39         34%
3.       In the past several years SLEC was unable to provide reliable
service. This is now improving and should improve even more once the pro-
posed project is completed. Nevertheless, even then, the reliability of
supply will still be very modest compared to that in other countries of
Western Africa (Senegal, Ivory Coast, Ghana). Only when Bumbuna has been
completed and King Tom used as spare capacity (or possibly only to firm-up
Bumbuna during the dry season) will reliability of supply be entirely sat-
isfactory. However, even the modest improvement achieved in the recent
past has induced a large number of potential non-residential consumers to



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5 pages
apply for connections. During FY77 connection of new non-residential load
reached 2.4 MW, and in late FY77, SLEC had a list of requests for power
supply by industries, commercial enterprises and other large constumers
(radio stations, embassies, etc.) totalling more than 9.6 MW of connected
load, and this is only for FY78 and FY79 (see list in Attachment 3). It
has been assumed that the actual demand for the above power would be
delayed by six months to one year and would appear progressively in the
course of FY78, 79 and 80.
4.       The consumption projections cf new non-residential consumers have
been conservatively estimated; new loads were considered as having a load
factor of 0.25 (the load factor calculated on basis of the contribution of
the load to the overall peak system and not to the maximum individual demand).
This also assumes that the consumption for new connections would possibly
start only late in the FY and during a time the full capacity might not be
required. As shown in Attachment 1, these assumptions reduce substantially
the overall load factor from FY79 onward to 0.60; this would be substantially
below the 0.66 experienced in recent years which was probably due to load
shedding during peak periods. Attachment 4 gives the forecast of sales and
gross generation which assumes an improvement in the percentage of losses and
unaccounted for energy.
5.       Attachment 2 shows graphically the unrestricted peak demand pro-
jected for the Western system. To meet this demand SLEC plans to add by
early-1978 (FY78) a fourth unit rated at 9.2 MW at King Tom. A fifth unit
will be required at King Tom by FY82 to take care of load growth until the
Bumbuna hydropower scheme's first stage is commissioned in FY85. Afterward
the Ki-ng Tom units will be used to firm-up hydroelectric generation during
the dry season for another five years until a seasonal storage reservoir at
Yiben - (upriver from Bumbuna) would be operational.
Provincial Systems
6.       The load and consumption projections for these systems used in this
report are, after some downward adjustments, similar to those included in
the tariff study which Mlotcr Columbus prepared for SLEC in 1973 and which pre-
dicted very closely the demand elements for FY74 and 75. The downward adjust-
ment takes into consideration the effect on consumption of the steep tariff
increases of 1974 and 1975, and of the recent January 1977 increase. Attach-
ment 4 gives the main statistics on electricity demand concerning these sys-
tems and the expected overall growth. As shown in this attachment the rate of
growth is expected to taper down to 7% per year in spite of the relatively
high rates observed in the years preceding FY76, which were due to the expan-
sion of industrial and commercial load in the three largest provincial sys-
tems, i.e. Bo, Kenama, and Koidu, following the commissioning of the units
financed under the last Bank loan.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5 pages
7.       SLEC's present program for the provincial centers allows mostly for
replacement of obsolete or worn-out equipment and at the same time for a
moderate increase in the supply potential. The last column of Appendix 2 to
Annex 1 shows the expected increase in peak demand due to projects under con-
struction in the various provincial centers. The program would take care of
a demand growth of 10% for FY's 79, 80 and 81 and 7% per annum thereafter.
The assumed higher growth for FY79 to FY81 is due to the expected improvement
in reliability of supply. However, in the course of the execution of the
proposed project, the Government and SLEC should develop a masterplan that
would allow the demand to be met in an orderly way, and particularly in order
of priority.
Least-Cost Solution
8.       Comparison between the two possible solutions for the expansion of
the generating capacity at the King Tom power plant, i.e. low-speed marine
diesel driven units vs. medium speed diesel sets, has been made on the basis
of the following assumptions:
(a) Bumbuna will be fully operative by FY85 as a run-of-
river hydroplant. By FY90 the Yiben Reservoir will be
completed and the hydroplant will take care of the
entire electric supply for the Western system and the
provincial systems within Bumbuna's service area. From
FY85 to FY90 the King Tom thermal power plant will oper-
ate to firm-up hydro-electric generation of Bumbuna.
(b) In the low-speed alternative, the fourth unit at King
Tom will operate at the base of the load diagram from its
commissioning in FY79 up to FY85 when Bumbuna will be in
operation. Once Bumbuna generation is available the
diesel units at King Tom will be doing peaking duty during
the rainy season and base load operation in the dry season.
(c)  In the medium-speed alternative, the fourth unit at King
Tom will operate at the top of the load diagram for FY's 79
to 85 whilst the low-speed existing diesel-electric sets
will take care of the base load.  Operation of King Ton
once Bumbuna is in service will be similar to that described
under (b), but always with the medium-speed unit higher up
in the load diagram than the low-speed sets.
(d) Useful life for low-speed diesel-electric sets is 160,000
hours; that for medium-speed units is 80,000 hours.
(e) Overhaul has to be performed on low-speed diesel engines
every 8,000 hours and takes about three weeks. For
medium-speed diesel engines overhauls need to be carried
out every 4,000 hours and require two weeks.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5 pages
(f) Low-speed and medium-speed diesel electric sets have
approximately the same efficiency.
(g) Annual generating capability of the units at King
Tom are computed as follows:
(i)   existing units: max. 19.8 MW - 4000h/year  80 GWh
(ii) new units:
low-speed:   9.2 MW - 6000h/year  55 GWh
medium-sreed:   9.2 MW - 5000h/year  46 GWh
(h) Investment cost for medium-speed units is roughly 75% of
that required for low-speed units.
(i) Cost of fuel has been taken at US$ 13.00 per barrel for
fuel oil and US$ 16.4 per barrel for gas oil, thereby
reflecting international price levels. This translates
into the following costs for the different generating
units:
9.2 M  low-speed unit       :,Le mills/kWh  21.5
9.2 MW medium-speed unit   : Le mills/kWh  21.5
existing low-speed units   : Le mills/kWh  23.9
other units                  : Le mills/kWh  35.2
(k) Allocation of generation from Bumbuna and from King Tom
was done by using a peak-percentage curve; this is a
mass curve giving for each kW demand (in percent of
peak demand) the corresponding kWh generation (in per-
centage of annual generation or seasonal generation).
This allocation was computed for the rainy season, when
Bumbuna will operate for base load and King Tom for
peaking, and for the dry season when the roles will be
reversed.
9.       Attachment 5 shows the ret cash flow tabulation, assuming that the
foreign exchange involved is valued at 30% over market price, for the basic
case and for a 10% decrease in the investment cost for medium-speed units.
The equalizing discount rate is 15% for the former and 12% for the latter.
Return on Investment
10.      The return on investment for the two components of the project, (a)
King Tom extension plus associated 33 kV system, and (b) provincial centers'
extension, has been examined assuring the foreign exchange involved is
valued at 30% over market price.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5 pages
11.        Attachment 6 is the tabulation of the rate of return computations
for the Western System's portion of the project. Benefits have been taken
as represented by the revenues from current tariffs. Fuel cost for the new
King Tom unit was computed from international price levels so as to exclude
taxes and other internal transfers. Generation attributable to the new
unit has been computed as incremental generation over the present capabi-
lity of the three existing King Tom units after taking into account their
condition. The resulting rates of return are: 13% for the above-mentioned
assumptions, 12% for a 10% increase in the undisbursed portion of the
investment cost, 11% for a 10% decrease in revenue and 12% for a 10% in-
crease in fuel cost.
12.        Attachment 7 shows the same tabulation for the provinces' portion
of the project. For these calculations, the fuel cost has been increased
by the average cost of transport from Freetown to the different generating
centers (approximately 10% mark up). Generation attributable to the new
units has also been computed as incremental generation over that of exist-
ing units after considering the latter's condition. The resulting rates
of return are: 9% for the basic assumption, 7% for a 10% increase in invest-
ment cost, 6% for a 10% increase in fuel cost and 4% for a 10% decrease in
revenues. The low rate of return for the provincial centers' component of
the project reflects Government's policy of having uniform electric tariffs
throughout the country irrespective of the relative size of the systems
and the diverse supplying conditions.



ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD POWER PROJECT
SLEC's Western S_stes - Capability, Peak Load, Generation, and Load Factor - Actual and Projected
------------Actual ----------           --------------Projected-------------
Fiscal Year                                 1974    1975    1976    1977            1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Dependable Installed Capacity, NW           25.2    25.2    25.2    25.2            25.2    34.4    34.4    43.6    43.6
Firm Capacity (largest unit out), 1MW    15.9    16.2    16.2    16.2               16.2    22.8    22.8    32.0    32.0
Peak Load, MW                               15.9    16.2    16.2    16.2            16.2    20.7    22.8    24.5    26.3
Surplus or (Deficit)                        -        -        -        -            -         2.1    -           7.5      5.7
Gross Generation, GWh                       94       91       93       92           99      109      120      129      138
Annual Load Factor                           0.66    0.64    0.66    0.65            0.70    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60
Increase of Unrestricted Peak Load
over Previous Year                                                                                  10%       7%       7%
April, 1977



ANNEX_
Attachment 2
SIERRA LEONE
SLEC'S WESTERN SYSTEM
MAXIMUM DEMAND, DEPENDABLE INSTALLED CAPACITY, AND FIRM CAPACITY
50
40 -i j                                                     <| 
4 0                                           _   __ 2|                    __   __ X
si 30   DEPENDABLE INTALLED _- E a             -                ,<
0 Lu                      ~~~~~~z
--       FIRM CAPACITY            Z 
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~     
z                                        
30       ' DEPENDABLE INSTALLED         
74 30             76      77     7A      9      8         1    8        3     8 
w       ~~CAPACITY                 0U
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
20
SIERRA ~ ~ ~ ~ FII LEONE        CAPA YA
W 20
10
74     75      76     77     78      79     80      81     82      83     84      85
SIERRA LEONE FISCAL YEAR
World Bank-17369



ANNEX 6
Attachment 3
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Western System
List of No-Residential Loads Connected in FY 77 and to
be Connected in FY's 78 and 79
FY 77    FY 78    FY 79
kW       kW       kW
Catholic Mission, Howe Street                                 150
Cape Sierra, Chalets                                          300
Government Lodge, Spur Road                                   150
Daily Mail, Rawdon Street                                     300
Cold Storage, George Brook                                    200
Casino Extension                                              150
Soap Factory, Wellington                                     430
Furniture Factory, Allen Town                                 180
Brewery Extension                                             250
Barclays Bank, Siaka Stevens Street                           150
Chinese Reception Center                                      150
Leicester Peak, Transmitter                                            150
Government Printing, New England                                       800
Benguema Barracks                                                      600
Town Hall                                                              150
National Stadium Brookfields                                          1500
'-uma Pumps, Africanus Road                                            150
NIC Building, Walpole Street                                           300
Commercial Bank                                                        500
Barclays Bank, Garrison Street                                         200
Gooding Building                                                       250
Methodist Mission                                                      100
Grafton Police Barracks                                                          400
Bintumani Hotel, Aberdeen                                                      1000
Waterloo Transmitter                                                           1000
Clay Brick Factory                                                 _           1000
Cocoa Factory, Wellington                                                       800
Secretariat Building, Brookfields                                               600
Saw Mill, Cola Tree                                                             150
2410     4700     4950
Note: Incidence of these connected loads on the peak load of the morning is
expected at 50% and in the evening at 15%.



ANNEX 6
Attachment 4
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD POWER PROJECT
SLEC - Generation, Sales and Losses - Actual and Projected
FY Ending March 31                          --------------------------------------------Actual-------------------------------                    ------------Projected----------
1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977                    1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Gross Generation
Western System, GWh                           52      58      62      67      74      77      80      85      94      91      93      92            99     109     120     129     138
Increase Over Previous Year                           127.     7%      7%    11%       37.     5%7     6.    11%      (3)%    (2)%    (1)%
Provinces, GWh                                12      13      13      14      15      17      19      24      27      28      30      30            30      30      32      36      39
Increase Over Previous Year                            3%      5%      9%      5%      9%    15%    25%       12%      4%      7%     -
Total SLEC, GWh                               64      71      75      81      89      94      99    109    121    119        120    122            129     139     152     165     177
Energy Sales
Western System, GWh                           38      44      49      51      61      60      57      61      66      66      70      74            79      87      96    103      110
Increase Over Previous Year                           17%     10%      5%    19%    (1)%   (5)%    57.         8%    (2)%      7%      6%            7%    10%      107.     77.     7%
Provinces, GWh                                 9      10      10      11      11      13      16      18      19      22      20      20            20      22      24      27      29
Increase Over Previous Year                            8%    (1)%      2%      7%      9%    25%      117.     9%    16%   (11)%    -               -       10%     10%     10%      7%
Total SLEC, GWh                               47      54      59      62      72      73      73      79      85      88      90      94            99     109     120     130     139
Losses and Unaccounted for in %
of Gross Generation
Western System 1/                             27%     16%     217.    24%     18%    22%      29%    28%    30%    28%        25%     20%           20%     20%     20%     20%     207.
Provinces 1/                                  25%    23%      23%    21%    27%    244%    16%    25%         30%    21%      27%     33%           33%     27%     25%     25%     25%
Total SLEC                                    27%    244%    21%    23%       19%    22%      26%     28%    30%    27%       25%     23%           23%     22%     21%     21%     21%
1/ Including station use (approx. 2%) and SLEC's own requirements (approx. 2%).
April 6, 1977



ANNEX 6
Attachment 5
SIERRA LEONE
Third Power Project
SLEC's Western System - Generating Capacity Addition
Tabulation for Least Cost Solution Computations 1/ 2/
-- in million Leone --
Net Cash Flow for
Operation                                                                 10% Decrease in
and                                               Net Cash Flow        Investment for Medium-
FY         Investment      Maintenance       Fuel Cost      Residual Value       for Base Case        Speed Units
77            2.23              -                                                     2.23                     3.12
78            0.50              -                                                    0.50                      0.70
79            -              (0.27)            (0.10)             -                  (0.37)                   (0.37)
80            -              (0.27)            (0.05)             -                  (0.32)                   (0.32)
81            -              (0.27)            (0.04)             _                  (0.31)                   (0.31)
82            -              (0.27)            (0.20)             -                  (0.47)                   (0.47)
83            -              (0.27)            (0.17)             -                  (0.44)                    (0.40)
84            -              (0.27)            (0.13)             -                  (0.40)                   (0.40)
85            -              (0.27)            (0.13)             -                  (0.40)                   (0.40)
86            -              (0.27)            (0.13)             -                  (0.40)                    (0.40)
87            -              (0.27)            (0.13)             -                  (0.40)                    (0.40)
88            -               (0.27)           (0.13)             -                  (0.40)                    (0.40)
89            -              (0.27)            (0.13)             -                  (0.40)                    (0.40)
90            -              (0.27)            (0.13)           (5.81)               (6.21)                    (7.26)
Equalizing Rates:
(i) base case, 15%
(ii) 10% decrease in investment cost for medium-speed units, 12%
1/ The tabulated figures are differences between costs for low-speed and medium-speed units.
2/ Assuming foreign exchange costs valued at 30% over market prices.
April, 1977



ANNEX 6
Attachment 6
SIERRA LEONE
Third Power Project
Western System Portion of the Project
Tabulation for Rate of Return Computations /
Generation                                                Investment Costs                Benefits       Operation                                                                    Net Cash Flow for:
Attributable to                                      King Torm's        33 kV             0.11 Leone        and                    Residual   Net Cash                 I), Increase        10%. Increase    107. Decrease
FY      King Tom's 4th Unit    Increment in Sales               4th Unit   Distribution            per kWh   Maintenance           Fuel       Value      Flow                  in Investment    in Fuel Cost    in Revenues
GWh                         GWh                  -------------------------------in million Leone---------------------------------                              --------------in million Leone-------------
77                                           -                     8.92             -                -                                         -            8.92                    9.81                8.92                8.92
78              -                            -                    2.01              -                -              -               -          -            2.01                    2.21                2.01                2.01
79              21                           18                   -                 1.64            (1.98)          0.29            0.59       -            0.54                   0.70                0.60                 0.74
80               32                          27                    -                1.17            (2.97)          0.29            0.90       -           (0.61)                 (0.49)               (0.52)              (0.31)
81               41                          34                    -                -               (3.74)          0.29            1.15       -           (2.30)                  (2.30)              (2.19)              (1.93)
82               50                          42                    -                -               (4.62)          0.29            1.40       -           (2.93)                  (2.93)              (2.79)              (2.47)
83               55                          46                    -                -               (5.06)          0.29            1.54       -           (3.23)                 (3.23)              (3.08)               (2.72)
84               55                          46                    -                -               (5.06)          0.29            1.54       -           (3.23)                 (3.23)               (3.08)              (2.72)
85               15                          13                    -                -               (1.43)          0.29            0.42       -           (0.81)                 (0.81)              (0.77)               (0.67)
86               20                          17                    -                -               (1.87)          0.20            0.56       -          (1.11)                  (1.11)              (1.05)               (0.92)
87               27                          23                    -                -               (2.53)          0.20            0.76       -          (1.57)                  (1.57)              (1.49)               (1.32)
88               34                          28                    -                -               (3.08)          0.20            0.95       -           (1.93)                 (1.93)              (1.84)               (1.62)
89              41                           34                   -                 -               (3.74)          0.20            1.15       -          (2.39)                  (2.39)              (2.28)              (2.02)
90               46                          38                    -                -               (4.18)          0.20            1.29      (10.29)   (12.98)                  (13.66)             (12.69)             (12.05)
Equalizing Rates:
(i) base case, 13%
(ii) 107. increase in investment, 12%
(iii)  107. increase in fuel cost, 12%
(iv) 10% decrease in revenues, 11%
1/  Assuming foreign exchange costs valued at 30% over market prices.
April 1977,



ANNEX 6
Attachent 7
SIERRA LEONE
Third Power Project
Provincial Centers' Portion of the Project
Tabulation for Rate of Return Computations I/
Generation                                                  Benefits    Operation                                                            Net Cash Flow for:
Attributable                                                 0.11 Leone    and                                                   10% Increase    10% Increase   107. Decrease
FY     to New Units       Increment in Sales        Investment       per kWh      Maintenance   Fuel Cost   Net Cash Flow                in Investment   in Fuel Cost   in Revenues
GWh                  GWh                -------------------------in million Leone ----          ---------------              -----------------in million Leone----------
79          -                     -                    1.61            -             -               -             1.61                      1.77               1.61            1.61
80          3                     2                    0.34           (0.22)         0.05            0.16          0.33                      0.36              0.35             0.35
81          4                     3                    -              (0.33)         0.05            0.21         (0.07)                    (0.07)            (0.05)           (0.04)
82          7                     5                    -              (0.55)         0.05            0.37         (0.13)                    (0.13)            (0.09)           (0.08)
83          9                     7                    -              (0.77)         0.05            0.48         (0.24)                    (0.24)             (0.19)           (0.16)
84         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53         (0.30)                    (0.30)             (0.25)           (0.21)
85         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53         (0.30)                     (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
86         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53         (0.30)                     (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
87         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53          (0.30)                    (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
88         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53         (0.30)                     (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
89         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53          (0.30)                    (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
90         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53          (0.30)                    (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
91         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53          (0.30)                    (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
92         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53          (0.30)                    (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
93         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53          (0.30)                    (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
94         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53          (0.30)                    (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
95         10                     8                    -              (0.88)         0.05            0.53          (0.30)                    (0.30)            (0.25)           (0.21)
Equalizing Rates:
(i)  base case, 9%
(ii)  10% increase in investment, 7%
(iii)  10% increase in fuel cost, 6%
(iv)  10% decrease in revenues, 4'.
1/  Assuming foreign exchange costs valued at 30% over market prices.
April, 1977



ANNEX 7
SIERRA LEONE
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
Tariff Schedule
(Effective January 1, 1977)
Consumer Category           Leone                  US$ Equivalent
Tariff 1    Domestic consumer            0.105 per kWh          0.0905 per kWh
Minimum charge        Minimum charge
Le. 1 per month       0.86 per month
Tariff 2    Non-Domestic con-            0.12 per kWh           0.103 per kWh
sumer up to 15 kW           Minimum charge         Minimum charge
maximum demand.             Le. 2 per month        Le. 1.72 per month
Tariff 3    Non-Domestic con-            0.105 per kWh plus   0.0905 per kWh
sumer more than 15 kW       Maximum demand 5/kW  Maximum demand 4.31/kW
maximum demand. Low         Minimum charge         Minimum charge
tension supply.             Le. 100 per month    Le. 86.21 per month
Tariff 4    Non-Domestic con-            0.085 per kWh plus   0.073 per kWh
sumer more than 15 kW       Maximum demand 5/kW  Maximum demand 4.31/kW
maximum demand. High        Minimum charge         Minimum charge
tension supply.             Le. 500 per month    Le. 431.03 per month
Tariff 5    Street lighting              0.11 per kWh           0.095 per kWh
Tariff 6    Temporary supply             0.14 per kWh           0.121 per kWh



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2 pages
SIERRA LEONE
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD POWER PROJECT
Accounting Specialists
Draft Terms of Reference
The Management of the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC)
proposes to undertake a thorough review of the existing systems and procedures
of the Finance Department with the object of effecting improvements. IDA
concurs with the management that there is an urgent need for this. In this
work it is estimated that the services of two accounting specialists and a
data processing specialist for a total of about 48 man-months would be re-
quired.
In addition to the tasks outlined below for each of these experts,
they are expected to prepare instructions where relevant to ensure continuing
and consistent application of recommended new systems and procedures. In
addition, the experts are expected to assist in the implementation of their
recommendations and to suggest and supervise staff training where necessary.
Appropriate
Man-Months
Main Tasks                       Required
-    Review and modify the existing accounting            6
system and procedures with a view of
making it simpler, efficient and responsive
to the needs of SLEC.
-    Examine SLEC's data processing requirements          3
and the existing system which is currently a
source of large delays. Recommend a system
which will meet SLEC's needs reliably and
swiftly, permitting it to produce annual
financial statements within 4 months after
completion of the fiscal year. Implement
the revised system in consultation with
SLEC and IDA.
-    Determine appropriate staffing levels for
the financial/accounting side.
-    Establish and supervise training, recruitment        7
and transfer program for the staff which will
permit availability of the required staff
within the next two years. Both local and
overseas training of the accounting staff
should emphasize:
(a) SLEC's accounting system and procedures; and
(b)  Management skills.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2 pages
Develop appropriate methods including indices             6
for the revaluation of fixed assets. Carry
out the revaluation of SLEC's assets which
will be incorporated in the financial
statements.
Review the present procedures of the internal             3
audit office, recommend improvements where
necessary and implement the same.
Suggest improvements in budget preparation and            4
control, covering both operating and investment
budgets. Establish a medium-term (e.g. 5-year)
financial planning system, including forecasts
of the income statement, balance sheet, and
sources and uses of funds statement.
Given the present and future availability of              3
data, design a monthly financial management
reporting system covering statistical and
financial items essential for day-to-day
management decision making.
Review the purchasing and stores procedures               5
(including fuel) and implement the agreed
modifications. Particular attention should
be paid to physical control of stores material.
Review billing procedures and introduce                   3
required changes.
Follow up and maintenance work over the next              4
2 year period to ensure proper working of the
financial management systems introduced
above.
Contingency time to cover other points which              4
may arise during the review.
48



ANNEX 9
SIERRA LEONE
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION(SLEC)
Income Statement
(In Le '000)
Le I = 0.86                                     Actual          Preliminary                         Forecast
FY Ending March 31                          1974      1975     1976      1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982
Energy Sales GWh                              85       88        90        94        99       109      120       130       139
Average Price Per KWh (le)                  0.045    0.072   0.0952   0.0985    0.112    0.120    0.120    0.120   0.1356 ,
Proposed Tariff Increase                                                             L0% 1/                                 137.-
Operating Revenues
Sales (Existing 1977 Rates)                 3,870    6,348    8,576    9,259   10,791   11,881   13,080   14,170   15,151
Subsidy for Provincial Operations              70        70        70      478       332       143       347      484       281
Revenue from Tariff Increase                  -         -        -         -         296    1,188    1,308    1,417    3,697
TOTAL                                   3,940    6,418    7,646    9,737   11,419   13,212   14,735   16,071   19,129
Operating Expenses
Fuel                                        2,054    3,727    4,016    4,078    4,136    4,525    5,316    6,237    7,203
Generation Other                              884       684    1,304    1,000    1,100    1,210    1,331    1,464    1,611
Distribution Maintenance                      386       385      450       580       638       701       772       849       934
Administration                              1,037    1,001    1,273    1,312    1,469    1,646    1,843    2,064    2,312
Management Fees                               -         -         330      400       500       550       400       440       484
Provision for Bad Debts                       615       195      260       277       324       356       392       425       454
Depreciation                                  658       637       843      927    1,455    1,472    1,795    1986
TOTAL                                 57,634    6,629    8,476    8,574    9,622   10,460   11,849   13,369   15,784
Operating Income                           (1,694)    (211)       170    1,163    1,797    2,752    2,886    2,702    3,345
Other Income (Net)                             98       150       100      315       110       120       120       130       130
Net Income Before Interest              (1,596)      (61)     270    1,478    1,907    2,872    3,006    2,832    3,475
Interest Charges to Operations                584       542       640      499       892    1,357    1,555    1,829    2,508
Possible Dividends                            -         -         -        -         -     _           1,400    1,000        500
Net Income                              (2,180)    (603)    (370)       979    JLZ1 5    1,515         51         3       467
Average Net Fixed Assets in Operation                          12,012   11,972   16,876   20,867   22,634   24,961   32,538
Rate of Return                               Neg.       Neg.    1.47.     9 . 7%    10.6%    13.2%    12.8%    10.87.    10.3%
Operating Ratio (%)                           143       103        98        88       84        79        80        83        83
1/ 10%. increase effective January 1, 1978. Another increase of 13% effective April 1, 1981.



ANNEX 10
SIERRA LEONE
SLEC PROVINCIAL CENTERS
Income Statement
(In Le '000)
Le = $0.86                     ----Actual----    --Estimated--         ---Forecast---------------
FY Ending March 31               1974    1975       1976    1977        1978      1979    1980    1981    1982
Energy Sales GMTh                                               20        20        22      24       27         29
Average Price Per kWh (Le)                                  0.0985    0.112    0.120   0.12    0.12    0.1356
10o/i                                13711l
Operating Revenue                 937   1,584      1,730   1,970       2,240    2,640   2,880   3,240   3,933
Operating Expenses
Fuel                              648   1,323      1,300   1,323       1,349    1,451   1,655   1,993   2,310
Generation Other                 381      364        380      405        445       490      539      593      652
Distrilution Maintenance         191      164        190      220        242       266      293      322      354
Administration                     87     250        260      300        336       376      421      472      529
Depreciation                     190      178        188      200        200       200      319      344      369
1,497   2,279      2,318   2,448       2,572    2,783   3,227   3,724   4,214
Operating Deficit                (560)   (695)      (588)   (478)       (332)    (143)   (347)   (484)    (281)
Approximate Gross Fixed Assets                              4,300      4,300     4,300   6,380   6,8£0   7,380
/1  10% increase effective January 1, 1978.  13% increase effective April 1, 1981.



SIERRA LEONE                                                ANNEX 1l
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPOPATION (SLEC)
Cash Flow Statement
(In Le'000)
Le 1 = $0.86                                                                                        Total
FY Ending March 31                                  1977        1978        1979        1980      1977-1980      198i        1982
Internal Sources
Net IncoTi Before Interest                         1,478       1,907       2,872       3,006        9,263       2,832        3,475
Depreciation                                         927       1,455       1,472       1,795        5,649       1,890        2,786
Total                                2,405       3,362       4,344       4,801       14,912       4,722        6-,261
Operational Requirements
Increase in Working Capital Other than Cash          (509)       288          47          15         (159)         (27)         (68)
Debt Service                                          946      1,369       1,862       2,089        6,266       2,394        3,112
Total                                  437       1,657       1,909       2,104        6,107       2,367        3,044
Net Available from Operations                      1,963       1,705       2,435       2,697        8,805       2,355        3,217
Construction Requirements
Proposed Project
- Foreign                                      6,690       3,460       3,160         770       14,080         -            -
- Local                                          270         470         150         950        1,840         -            -
Total Project                        6,960       3,930       3,310       1,720       15,920         -             -
Other Construction                                    365        440         360       1,060        2 225       5,870       13,960
Total Construction                   7,325       4,370       3,670       2,780      1l;143        5,870       13,960
Balance to Finance                                 (5,357)    (2,665)    (1,235)          (83)    (9,340)       (3,515)     (10,743)
Financed By
Proposed BADEA Loan                                   -        1,030       3,310       1,480        5,820          -            -
Proposed IDA Credit                                   -        8,250         -             -       8,250
Other Borrowings/Government Advance                 6,690      (6,690)        -           848         848        4,696       11,168
Total Borrowings                     6,690       2,590       3,310       2,328      14,918        4,696        11,168
Surplus (Deficit) of Funds                          1,333         (75)      2,075      2,245        5,578        1,181          425
Possible Dividends to Government                      -           -           -         1,400       1,400        1,000          500
Net Surplus (Deficit) of Funds                      1,333         (75)     2,075          845      4,178           lbi          (75)
Accumulated Surplus                                 1,333       1,258       3,333       4,178       4,178        4,359        4,284
Debt Service Coverage                                 2.5         2.5         2.3         2.3         2.4          2.0          2.0
Net Available from Operations as %
of Construction Requirements                        27         39          66          97           49           40           23



ANNEX 12
SIERRA LEONE
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION (SLEC)
Balance Sheet
(In Le 'ooo)
Le 1 = $0.86                          ----Actual  -           Preliminary         --------------Forecast…----------------
FY Ending March 31                     1974      1975        1976     1977         1978      1979      1980      1981     1982
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets in Operation       15,723   16,854       16,904   18,544       29,094   29,454   35,894   37,794   55,724
Less: Depreciation                     3,819    4,446        5,289    6,216        7,671    9,143   10,938   12,828   15,614
Net Fixed Assets in Operation       11,904   12,408       11,615   12,328       21,423   20,311   24,956   24,966   40,110
Work in Progress                          193      650       1,814    8,029        1,849    5,159    1,499    5,469    1,499
Current Assets
Cash                                      89       -           -      1,333        1,258    3,333    4,178    4,359    4,284
Accounts Receivable(Net)                  857    2,751       1,156    1,543        1,799    1,980    2,180    2,362    2,525
Inventories                              626       738       2,136    1,446        1,591    1,750    1,925    2,117    2,329
Other                                    453       750          40        90           95      100       110       120       125
Total Current Assets           2,025    4,239       3,332    4,412         4,743    7,163    8,393    8,958    9,263
TOTAL ASSETS                  14,122   17,296      16,763   24,769        28,015   3         34,848   39,393   50,872
LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital                               2,000    2,000        6,090    6,090         6,090    6,090    6,090    6,090    6,090
Retained Earnings                       (423)  (1,026)    (1,396)    (417)           598    2,113    2,164    2,167    2,634
Capital Reserve                       1,863    1,863        1,863    1,863        1,863    1,863    1,863    1,863    1,863
Total Equity                   3,440    2,837       6,557    7,536         8,551   10,066   10,117   10,120   10,587
Long-term Debt                         7,060    6,935        7,573   14,346        16,459   19,264   21,058   25,189   35,753
Current Liabilities
Fuel (6 weeks' consumption)              -          -           -        447          475       520      611       717       828
Accounts Payable                       1,093    1,054        3,020       800          880       968    1,065    1,171    1,288
Other                                  1,458    1,750        1,299    1,500         1,650    1,815    1,997    2,196    2,416
Government Advances                    1,071    4,545           -        -            -         -         -         -          -
Overdraft                                -         175         312       140/1        -         -          -        -         -
Total Current Liabilities    3,622    7,524         2,631    2;887         3,005    3,303    3,673    4,084    4,532
TOTAL LIABILITIES             14,122   17,296      16,761   24,769        28,015   32,633   34,848   39,393   50,872
Debt/Equity Ratio                       67/33    71/29       54/46    66/34         66/34      66/34   68/32    71/29    77/ 2
/1 Because of late payment of bills by the Government, the overdraft existed.



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 5 pages
SIERRA LEONE
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD POWER PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions Regarding the Financial Statements
1.         The financial statements for the period FY74-77 are based on the
Auditors' Report (through FY75) and the best available estimates for FY76 and
77 as provided by SLEC.
After consultations with SLEC management Fixed Assets and Retained
Earnings for the period FY74-77 were adjusted. As an interim measure, the
book value of fixed assets in operation was adjusted on the basis of actual
c.r estimated foreign exchange loss on long-term debt outstanding. This mea-
sure resulted in Le 1.892 million increase in the value of gross fixed assets
up to the end of FY74; Le 0.147 million in FY75; Le 1.016 million in FY76 and
Le 0.53 million in FY77. An equal adjustment has been made in Retained Earn-
ings through FY76. Long-term debt was increased for FY77 adjustment.
Foreign Exchange Rate
2.         Foreign exchange rates for the Leone are based on a fixed relation-
ship to the Pound Sterling. The projections are based on the current rate of
one Leone equal to US$ 0.86.
3.         Income Statements - FY77-82
(i) Sales in GWh - See Annex 6 Attachment 2
(ii) Average Price per KWh - 15% increase effective January 1,
1977 which has already taken place; 10% increase effective
January 1, 1978 and 13% increase in FY81.
(iii) (a) Fuel - 10% increase ir the price of fuel took place
effective January 1, 1976. A further 10% increase effec-
tive April 1, 1976, which was feared, did not materialize
and is no longer expected in near future. It is under-
stood that in view of the current high price, Government
will maintain the current price level for SLEC through
December 31, 1977. An increase of 3% per year has been
assumed for the last quarter of FY78. Future adjustments
for inflation are made as follows:



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 5 pages
Consumption
at Constant      Price                  Consumption at
FY   FY77 Prices   Deflator   Multiplier   Current Prices
78      4,055          8.0         1.02          4,136
79      4,125          7.5         1.097         4,525
80      4,532          7.0         1.173         5,316
81      4,970          7.0         1.255         6,237
82      5,363          7.0         1.343         7,203
The price deflators used were obtained from the Ccmmodities
and Export Projections Division on March 21, 1977.
(b)  Fuel cost for Provinces assume the same unit price
(adjusted for transport) and inflation rate.
Consumption       Inflation
FY   at FY77 Prices   Multiplier    Cost in current price
77      1,323             -                   1,323
78      1,323            1.02                 1,349
79      1,323            1.097                1,451
80      1,411            1.173                1,655
81      1,588            1.255                1,993
82      1,720            1.343                2,310
(iv)  Generation and Distribution - FY77 figures are based on
actual budget. Projections, starting FY78, are based on a
compound annual increase of 10%.
(v)   Administration - FY77 figures are based on actual expendi-
ture for first 10 months. Projections, starting FY78, are
based on the growth rate of 12% per annum. Futrther salary
increases if any, are expected to be counterbalanced by
staff reductions.
(vi) Management Fees for OvM are payable by SLEC in German Marks.
A 25% increase in FY78 is assumed primarily due to deprecia-
tion of the Leone in relation to the Mark. 10% increase is as-
sumed in 1979. Reduction in OvM staff is assumed in 1980 after
expiration of the present contract. 10% annual increase in
1981 and 82.
(vii) Depreciation - 5% composite depreciation rate on gross fixed
assets in operation.



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 5 pages
(viii) Provision for Bad Debts - 3% of sales at existing 1977 rates.
(ix)   Other Income (Net) - Represents exclusively "rechargeable"
jobs. FY77 figures are actual. In sibsequent years the
figures are likely to improve from the FY77 level. However,
very conservatively, FY76 figures with nominal increases
have been used in projections.
(x)    Financial Charges - Interest charges ccnsist of interest on
outstanding IBRD loans 388-SL (5.5%) and 553-SL (6.25%),
plus interest on future borrowings on the following terms:
- IDA    - 8.5%, 3/4% commitment fee, 20 years maturity,
including 4-1/2 years of grace.
- BADEA - 8.5 1/2% commitment fee, 15 years maturity,
including 5 years of grace.
- Other - 80% of other construction expenditure starting
1980 is assumed to be borrowed. 9%, 20 years
maturity, including 4 1/2 years of grace.
(xi)   Possible Dividends - are based on availability of cash.
Current projections indicate possible payments of
Le 1.4 million in FY80; Le 1.0 million *r. FY81 and Le 0.5
million in FY82.
4.         Balance Sheets - FY77-81
(i) Plant in Operation - The partly revalued assets carried forward
FY76 (see paragraph 1 .f this Annex) are increased each year by
the new plant put into service, which is as follows:
FY    Le'000
77     1,110
78    10,550
79       360
80     6,440
81     1,900
82    17,930
No major assets are expected to be withdrawn from service during
the period.



ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 5 pages
(ii)  Work in Progress - Calculated in relation with the construc-
tion program and commissioning schedules at the end of each
year.
(iii) Cash - Derived from Cash Flow. It is expected to be at a
satisfactory level in each of the years.
(iv)  Accounts Receivable - An improvement of the accounts receiv-
able situation is forecast based on (a) the Government's
assurances that all public sector electricity bills will be
paid promptly and fully, and (b) SLEC's efforts to ensure
payment by private consumers, and expected improvements in
the Finance Department. The forecast assumes that accounts
receivable will decrease to two months of billings at 1977
rates starting FY77.
(v)   Inventories - FY77 figures are based on the budget.  From FY78,
it is estimated to increase at 10% per annum.
(vi)  Other - In the past, it has included miscellaneous items
such as Government subsidy for provincial operations, con-
tract work, staff advances, debtors for goods in transit,
sundry debtors, and prepayments. The projections assume
settlement in 1976 of the Government debt for Provincial
operations. FY77 figure is per SLEC budget. Nominal
increases are assumed in future.
(vii) Capital - Consists of (a) the original Le 2 million of
irredeemable 'A' Loan Stock issued to the Government which
has now been redesignated as equity and (b) Le 4.1 million
as a result of the mutual debt settlement referred to in
para. 6.05 of the Appraisal Report.
(viii) Retained Earnings - h'ave been adjusted for Dossible dividend
payments starting FY80.
(ix)  Capital Reserve - Represents the value of plant and goods in
excess of the Le 2 million of 'A' Loan Stock issued to the
Government at vesting day in 1964. This item has been
assumed to be constant throughout the projection period.
(x)   Accoints Payable - Includes trade and sundry creditors,
Guma Valley Water levy and repair contracts.  FY77 fig)!res
as per budget. Projected to increase at 10% per annum
starting FY78.
(xi)  Fuel - Starting recently,the oil companies have granted 6
weeks credit to SLEC.



A34NEX 13
Page 5 of 5 pages
(xii) Other Current Liabilities - Includes various interest
accruals, cash deposits for contract work, and development
project retentions. Amount reduced in 1976 due to settle-
ment with the Government. FY77 figures as per SLEC budget.
Projected to increase at 10% a year starting FY78.
(xiii)Government - Represents amounts advanced by Government for
operational requirements and investments. Amounts to zero
starting FY76 due to the settlement.



ANNEX 14
S L E C
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Actual    --Preliminary --------Forecast-------------
FYs Ending March 31                                           1975       1976    1977       1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Market Development
GWh sold - total                                              87         90       94        99    109    120    130    139
- Western system                                    65         70       74        79      87      96    103    110
- Provincial centers                                22         20       20        20      22      24      27      29
Efficiency Indicators
Thousand kWh sold per employee                                NA         66       69        72      79      87      94    100
System losses and unaccounted for
(% of gross generation) - total                               27         25       23        23      22      21      21      21
- Western system                   28          25      20         20      20      20     20      20
- Provincial centers               21          27      33         33      27      25     25      25
Financial Indicators
Operating Ratio %                                            103         98       88        84      79      80      83      83
Debt Service Coverage                                      NegEative    1.8      2.5       2.5    2.3    2.3    2.0    2.0
Receivables as % of Operating Revenue                         43         13       16        16      15      15      15      13
Depreciation as % of Gross Fixed Assets                      4.5        4.8      5.0       5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Rate of Return %                                           Negative    1.4       9.7      10.6   13.2   12.8   10.8   10.3
April, 1977



ANNEX 15
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD POWER PROJECT
APPORTIONING OF EXTERNAL AND LOCAL FINANCING
--- in million US$ ---
IDA                 BADEA              Local Sources
Off-Shore    On-Shore   Off-Shore   On-Shore   Off-Shore
Project SLEC
(i)   Fourth Unit King Tom:
a) equipment                            6.08          -           -           0.12         -
b) civil works                          0.55          -           _           0.35         -
Sub-total                          6.63          -           -           0.47        -
(ii)  Corrective Measures at King Tom         -             -           0.20        -            -
(iii) 33 kV Distribution - First Stage        -             0.45        1.20        -            -
(iv)  Generating Units for Provinces          -             0.16        1.00        -            _
(v)   Data Processing Equipment               0.20          -           -           -            -
(vi)  Consultants:
a) provincial system                    -             0.05        0.10        -            -
b) financial                            -             0.05        0.27        -            -
c) engineering
-  King Tom extension                0.27          -           -           0.01        0.26
-  33 kV distribution                -             0.01        0.40        -            --
Total Base Line Costs                   7.10          0.72        3.17        0.48        0.26
Contingencies:
Physical                             -             0.09        0.50        0.13       0.42
Price                                -             -           0.52        0.16       0.13
Total Project SLEC                                    0.81        4.19        0.77        0.81
7.10                5.00                   1.58
Project Preparation Bumbuna Hydro
(vii) Consultants:
a) Completion of feasibility studies  0.10            -           -           0.03        -
b) Engineering design and bid
documents                          0.80          -           -           0.32        -
(viii) Contingencies                           0.20           -          -           0.07        -
Total Project Preparation
Bumbuna Hydro                         1.10          -           -           0.42        -
GRAND TOTAL PROJECT                     8.20                 5.00                    2.00
April 6, 1977






IBRD 12283R
;nA
CA
Ycra~~~~/
-9.                                  1~~~~~~~~~~~0 B.mburo~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~&, 
Mom ~        ~        ~<                                          o     o;                            S
/   w       <t   X NJA L A       gL              j       z/~ ~~~ ~ ~    ~~           ~  ~  ~ aegba.ento
-8'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~nl  enosesn  or accptnc   byB then                                   e bw   m  .D  r
Woeld- BankXand iteaffitiate



