Document of
FILE COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2123-SL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
SIERRA LEONE
FOR A
THIRD POWER PROJECT
June 29, 1977
L This docement baa rsicted dibutlon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
'their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bfank authorizatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =      Leone
US $1           =      1.16 Leone
1 Leone         =      US$ 0.86
2 Leone                 1 Pound Sterling
FISCAL YEAR
SIERRA LEONE ELECTRICITY CORPORATION   =   April 1 - March 31
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE             =   July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADEA           =      Arab Bank for Economic Development
in Africa (Banque Arabe du
Developpement Economique en Afrique)
OvM             =      Oskar von Miller
SLEC            =      Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation
GVA                    G Guma Valley Authority



FOR OMCLFCL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE - THIRD POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Sierra Leone
Beneficiary:       (1)  The Borrower for US$1.1 million
(2) The Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation
(SLEC) for US$7.1 million
Amount:                 US$8.2 million equivalent
Terms:                  Standard
Relending Terms:        US$7.1 million of the IDA credit would be relent to
SLEC for 20 years including 4-1/2 years of grace at
8.5 percent.
Project Description:    The project would consist of:
(a) the installation by early 1978 of a 9.2 MW low-
speed diesel-electric generating unit at the pres-
ent King Tom power plant as well as the construc-
tion of priority 33 kV distribution facilities in
Freetown;
(b) expansion of generating capacity amount to 2.3 MW
in ten isolated provincial centers;
(c) supply of data processing equipment for customers
billing, inventory records, and general accounting;
(d) technical assistance; and
(e) consultants' services required to complete the fea-
sibility study of the Bumbuna hydro-electric scheme
and design studies necessary to tender the construc-
tion of the hydro plant's first stage.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                    Local     Foreign      Total
…-- US$ million -------
Fourth Unit at King Tom                         0.47       6.63         7.10
Corrective measures at King Tom                  -         0.20         0.20
33 KV distribution                              0.45       1.20         1.65
Provincial generating units                     0.16       1.00         1.16
Data Processing Equipment                        -         0.20         0.20
Consultants:
(a)  Study on SLEC's management              0.05        0.27         0.32
(b)  provincial systems                       0.05       0.10        0.15
(c)  engineering                              0.02       0.93         0.95
Preparation for Bumbuna project                 0.42       1.10         1.52
Contingencies                                   0.38       1.57         1.95
Total                                           2.00      13.20        15.20
Financing Plan:                                    Local     Foreign      Total
US$ million -------
IDA                                              -         8.20         8.20
BADEA                                           0.96       4.04         5.00
Sierra Leone Resources                          1.04       0.96         2.00
Total                                           2.00      13.20        15.20
Estimated Disbursements:    Fiscal Year     Annual Disbursements     Disbursements
--------------------- US$ million ------------------
1978                7.30                  7.30
1979                0.90                  8.20
Technical Assistance:       Consultants would be engaged for:    (a) planning,
procurement and construction supervision of the
extension of generating facilities at King Tom;
(b) planning of the 33 KV distribution scheme
and the procurement and construction supervision
of the first stage of the scheme; (c) planning,
procurement and construction supervison of the
extension of generating facilities in provincial
centers; (d) preparation of a master plan for the
orderly development of the provincial systems;
(e) improvement of SLEC's financial management
and accounting procedures; and (f) preparation of
the Bumbuna hydro-electric project comprising the
completion of the feasibility study, identification
of a first stage of the project and the detailed
engineering and preparation of tender documents.



- iii -
Rate of Return:              12.5 percent (overall, for the SLEC component
of the project)
Appraisal Report:           Report No. 1183b-SL;    dated June 17, 1977.
Map:                         IBRD No. 12283R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO SIERRA LEONE
FOR A THIRD POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Sierra Leone for the equivalent of US$8.2 million
on standard IDA terms to help finance a third power project. US$7.1 million
of the proceeds of the credit would be relent to the Sierra Leone Electricity
Corporation (SLEC) for 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest
at 8.5 percent per annum. The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
(BADEA) would make a loan of US$5.0 million equivalent to Sierra Leone for
the project under a parallel financing arrangement; the loan would have a
term of 15 years including five years of grace, with interest at 4 percent
per annum, and would be relent to SLEC for 15 years, including 5 years of
grace, at 8.5 percent interest per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An updating "Economic Memorandum" (No. 1106-SL dated June 25, 1976)
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data sheets are
contained in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The modern mining sector is Sierra Leone's main source of export
earnings, and contributes a sizeable share of government revenues and wage
employment. Diamond mining is by far the largest single source of export
earnings, accounting for roughly 60 percent of total exports, but the rela-
tive contribution of diamonds to the economy has been declining because
of a gradual depletion of deposits, rising production costs and illicit
mining. Until the closure of the Sierra Leone Development Company (DELCO)
operations at Marampa in October 1975, iron ore mining was the second largest
source of export earnings; but production came to a halt in October 1975 when
DELCO declared bankruptcy. Rising production costs, particularly of fuel and
new equipment required for deep mining, a declining ore grade and management
problems were the main causes. The Government is trying to interest other
foreign investors to assist in reactivating the Marampa operations and in
exploiting another iron ore deposit at Tonkolili. The output of bauxite is
expanding moderately, but that of rutile has stopped, at least temporarily.
4.        The agricultural sector contributes about 35 percent of GDP and
provides a livelihood for three quarters of the population. Its contribu-
tion to exports was about 17 percent in 1975. The principal export crops
are palm kernels, cocoa and coffee. The main food crop is rice, although
production continues to fluctuate, it has reached close to the point of
self-sufficiency.



5.        Income inequality is pronounced in Sierra Leone.    Although the
data Is Incomplete, it would appear that the poorest 40 percent of the
population receive about 7 percent of total income, while the richest 5
percent receive about 36 percent. The Government recognizes the need to
achieve greater equity In distributing income and places emphasis on im-
provement in the quality of life for Its people, particularly in the rural
areas, where the vast majority live, by Improving access to education, im-
plementing Integrated rural development projects (including the construction
of rural roads), and expanding rural electrification. Primary school enroll-
ment stands at approximately 35 percent, secondary enrollment at 9 percent,
and vocational enrollment at 3 percent of total secondary enrollment.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        After a period of sluggish real growth with a rate averaging just
over 3 percent per annum from 1969 to 1973, there was a sharp decline in
economic activity during the following two years when it is estimated that
the growth rate fell to about 2 percent per annum in real terms. With pop-
ulation increasing at about 2.4 percent per annum, this resulted in a set-
back to growth in per capita income, estimated at US$200 in 1975. The year
1974 also marked the beginning of serious financial imbalances, both in-
ternal and external, against which the government has taken action, though
rather belatedly, in the course of the last few months. Thus, although
the external difficulties that began at the end of 1973 go a long way to
explain Sierra Leone's economic trouble, government adjustment policies
have also been less than adequate until recently.
Public Finances
7.        The slowdown In economic growth after 1973 was followed by a
marked deterioration in the fiscal situation characterized by stagnating
revenues and a continuing increase in expenditures. Initially, the effects
of the downturn were masked by the strength of the international diamond
market which led to a 43 percent increase in revenue during 1973/74. How-
ever, in the following year revenues increased by less than 6 percent, and
then declined by a little over 7 percent in 1975/76 in spite of a further
Increase in nominal income. Meanwhile total expenditures rose by more than
40 percent in 1973/74 and 1974/75, but the rate of Increase moderated to
about 6 percent In 1975/76. Expressed as a proportion of GDP, revenues fell
from a peak of 20 percent in 1973/74 to about 16.8 percent in 1975/76,
while total expenditures rose from about 24 percent In 1973/74 to over 31
percent in 1975/76. Expenditures financed from external sources rose rapidly
from year to year and accounted for half the total increase between 1972/73
and 1975/76. However, domestically financed expenditures rose less rapidly.
As a result of these developments the overall deficit of the Central Gov-
ernment Increased from Le 12.1 million in 1972/73 to almost Le 79 million in
1975/76. These deficits, particularly In the last two years, have been
accompanied by an accumulation of unpaid obligations to both domestic and
foreign suppliers.



- 3 -
8.        Preliminary estimates for 1976/77 indicate some improvement in
the overall fiscal position. This is due to a strengthening of the world
market for coffee and cocoa; an appreciable rise in the price for diamonds;
and revenue measures recently taken by the Government such as increased
custom duties, higher excise duties on the major commodities, as well as
improved import duty collections. Amendments to the income tax code are
also shortly to be introduced. As a result, revenues, which remained stag-
nant at about Le 90 million over the past two years, are estimated to in-
crease to about Le 110 million. At the same time the authorities have taken
steps to cut back expenditures. A general freeze on salaries and hirings
was announced and all departments were instructed to identify and imple-
ment specific reductions in their budgeted expenditures. More importantly,
steps are being taken to curb extra-budgetary outlays. As a result, it is
estimated that total expenditures of the Central Government in 1976/77 could
reach about Le 145 million, compared to Le 159 million and Le 168 million in
1974/75 and 1975/76 respectively. The overall deficit for 1976/77 would
amount to about Le 34 million (compared to Le 62 million and Le 79 million
in 1974/75 and 1975/76 respectively), of which about Le 10 million are ex-
pected to be financed from external sources. Although these developments
are encouraging, a continuing effort to increase domestic revenues and to
curb public expenditures is required.
Balance of Payments
9.        During 1971-73, current account deficits were more than offset by
net capital inflows. The overall balance of payments surplus averaged US$7.4
million until 1973. Beginning in 1974, the deficit on the current account
increased substantially and the balance of payments began to deteriorate and
showed growing overall deficits. The 1974 overall deficit of about $5.4 mil-
lion was due to a 46 percent increase in imports (mainly due to international
price inflation) while export performance remained modest. In 1975, the
overall deficit of about $22 million resulted primarily from an 8 percent
fall in export earnings attributable to a 16 percent drop in diamond produc-
tion and a 3.5 percent price decline. As petroleum consumption is relatively
high in Sierra Leone (mining, transport, power) the economy has been particu-
larly hard hit by the oil price explosion. Preliminary estimates for 1976
indicate that the overall deficit in the external account may be of the order
of $15.2 million. Net foreign exchange reserves fell from $33.7 million at
the end of 1974 to $12.7 million at the end of 1975, or the equivalent of 4
weeks of imports at 1975 levels. The precarious foreign reserve position
forced the Government to introduce an import licensing system in November
1975. Even so net foreign exchange reserves continued to decline and at
the end of 1976 became negative.
External Debt and Debt Service
10.       At the end of June 1976, total outstanding external public debt,
including arrears, amounted to US$203.77 million, of which US$174.84 mil-
lion was disbursed. The debt consists of roughly 28.5 percent suppliers'
credits, 38 percent bilateral government-to-government loans and 26.5 per-
cent loans and credits from international organizations.



11.       Concessionary bilateral capital aid came mainly from the Federal
Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, and thie United States of America.
The Socialist countries hold about 7 percent of Sierra Leone's external debt
portfolio. The World Bank Group is the largest single external source of
long-term development finance to the country and currently holds about 20.5
percent of the country's external debt portfolio.
12.       It is estimated that accumulated external debt service arrears,
including interest, as of June 30, 1976 stood at US$12.7 million; arrears on
local debt amounted to approximately the equivalent of US$10 million. Sched-
uled external debt service payments for FY 1977 are estimated at US$38.5 mil-
lion. If the accumulated debt service arrears are carried over to FY1977,
the Government's external debt service obligation on public and publicly
guaranteed debt would total about US$51.2 million, equivalent to about 30
percent of expected foreign exchange earnings. The Bank Group's share repre-
sents 2.6 percent of this debt servicing obligation. In 1973 and 1974 the
debt service ratio was only about 8.5 percent. Without taking arrears into
account, the debt service ratio increased to 9.8 percent in 1975. Owing
mainly to the accumulation of short-term supplier credits in recent years
and accumulated arrears, Sierra Leone's external debt service burden has
now become unmanageable. The Government has approached bilateral creditors
through the Paris Club with a view to negotiating a rescheduling of accumu-
lated arrears and payments falling due during the next few years.
13.       The above review of government finances, the balance of payments
and debt service obligations clearly shows that Sierra Leone's ability to
service its debt is seriously impaired. To correct this situation, the Gov-
ernment has taken the following remedial measures, in addition to its debt
rescheduling efforts: (a) a Foreign Exchange Budget Advisory Committee has
been formed under the Minister of Finance; (b) a moratorium has been imposed
on new supplier's credits and contractor finance; (c) a Central Procurement
Unit has been established in the Ministry of Finance to scrutinize all local
and foreign purchase orders before the purchases are executed. Finally, the
Government has entered into a standby arrangement with the IMF for the equiva-
lent of SDR 9.02 million based on a stabilization program which in addition
to the revenue and expenditure measures referred to in paragraph 8 above,
includes: (a) limitation on the rate of expansion of central government
borrowing from the local banking system; (b) restraint in the growth of in-
comes in both the private and public sectors; (c) improved producer pricing
policies designed to stimulate agricultural production; and (d) limitation
on government short and medium term overseas borrowing.
14.       Given continued progress in implementing measures to stabilize the
economy and satisfactory progress in its external debt negotiations, the
country could become eligible again for a limited amount of Bank lending
on conventional terms. However, the country will continue to need sizeable
amount of external assistance on concessionary terms in order to finance its
development program and diversify its production base, whilst at the same
time avoiding an undue external debt servicing liability. Taking into
account the country's relatively low per capita income, as well as its
limited creditworthiness, Sierra Leone continues to be eligible to receive
IDA assistance.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
Bank Group Operations
15.       Bank Group lending operations in Sierra Leone to date have to-
talled US$41.8 million. There have been five loans amounting to US$18.7
million, including a supplementary loan of US$2.3 million made in Jan-
uary 1975, and five credits totalling US$23.1 million. Four loans and
three credits are fully disbursed. The loans have been for expansion of
power facilities, for a road construction and highway maintenance project
and for an agricultural project. The credits have gone for agriculture,
education and roads. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IDA credits as of April 30, 1977 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
Lending Strategy
16.       The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance to Sierra
Leone are to help the Government:
(a) to diversify the economy by increasing agricultural
and manufacturing production;
(b) to improve the country's essential infrastructure,
particularly power and highways, the inadequacy of
which presently constitutes a major constraint upon
the country s economic growth;
(c) to broaden access to education and help relate the
educational system more closely to the manpower needs
of the economy; and
(d) to raise the income levels of the poorest section of
the population, especially in rural areas.
At the same time the Bank Group aims through its projects to encourage the
adoption of appropriate sector pricing policies and to strengthen the man-
agement and operations of the relevant government departments and copora-
tions.
17.       With the recent decline in the production of iron ore and dia-
monds, it has become increasingly important to develop the agricultural
and manufacturing potential of the economy. Two ongoing Bank Group fi-
nanced projects are designed to benefit smallholders and some of the
poorest farmers in achieving and maintaining self-sufficiency in the
production of staple food crops, such as rice, and increase export earn-
ings from cocoa and oil palm. A Bank Group mission is expected to visit
Sierra Leone shortly to identify further agricultural projects for assis-
tance. A DFC project is under preparation to assist the National Develop-
ment Bank (NDB) in financing small and medium scale enterprise development
in agro-industries, manufacturing and services.



- 6 -
18.       In Infrastructure, the Bank Group's first highways project assisted
In the construction of the country's main trunk road system, in Implementing
a maintenance program and In preparing studies for further improvement of
the road system. A second project Is In preparation which would construct
a priority section of the Freetown Coastal Road and further strengthen the
country's road maintenance program. The third power project now proposed will
help finance urgently needed extension-of electric power generation and dis-
tribution facilities in Freetown and several provincial centers, thereby re-
storing a measure of reliability in the supply of power required for sustain-
Ing the Sierra Leonean economy. The project would also help strengthen the
finances and management of the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC).
At the same time, the project includes assistance for the preparation of the
Bumbuna hydro-electric scheme which would reduce the country's dependence on
petroleum-based power.
19.       Two education projects approved by the Bank Group have been directed
towards improving and diversifying education at the secondary level, includ-
ing teacher training and assisting in modernizing curricula as well as creat-
Ing a closer linkage between education and employment, encouraging rural
and non-formal training and strengthening educational planning and manage-
ment.
20.       Each of these projects, by providing strategic assistance In the
main development sectors, would promote the Bank Group's lending objectives
outlined above. However, continued improvement In the Government's manage-
ment of the economy, especially its external debt, will be important In de-
termining the extent of the Bank Group's participation in future operations.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Sector Background
21.        Improvements are urgently needed in the power sector in Sierra
Leone to provide a reliable power supply to meet the needs of an expand-
ing economy, relieve present constraints resulting from interruptions in
supply and avoid uneconomic investments in captive plant by private firms.
Only about 10 percent of the country's total population is served by the
public system.
Existing Facilities
22.       The total installed capacity of the power sector In Sierra Leone
at present Is about 85 MW. Except for the 2.4 MW hydro-plant owned by the
Guma Valley Authority (GVA), the entire capacity is thermal. Of the total
capacity, 40 MW Is captive while the remaining 45 MW (except for the Guma
plant) is owned by the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC). In
addition, SLEC operates the Guma plant on behalf of GVA.



- 7 -
23.       SLEC is responsible for electricity supply to Freetown and its
suburbs (the Western System) and to provincial centers. Generating facili-
ties supplying the Western System have a total nominal capacity of 34 MW.
They comprise: (a) three diesel-electric units at King Tom (all Bank
financed) with a total capacity of 19.8 MW; (b) three old diesel-electric
sets totalling 2.8 MW and two 1.5 MW diesel-electric units at the Falcon-
bridge plant; (c) three old steam turbo-generators with a combined capac-
ity of about 5 MW and two new diesel sets with a combined capacity of about
1 MW at the Blackhall Road plant; and (d) the Guma hydro-plant, with a nomi-
nal capacity of 2.4 MW, which uses water during the rainy season from the
Freetown water supply reservoir.
24.       Due to the old and unreliable condition of many of the units,
firm capacity achieved has often been less than 50 percent of nominal
capacity, and below the level of peak demand estimated at the time of
appraisal at about 17 MW but projected to increase to 25.3 MW by the end
of 1980. The King Tom units, for example, have been unreliable in recent
years due to frequent breakdowns, although SLEC's maintenance program has
improved. The most serious breakdowns have been attributed to difficult
problems with the diesel-electric generators. The older units at Falconbridge
and Blackhall Road are worn out and are operated only at times of extreme
emergency on a stand-by basis. When they are operated, their cost is prohibi-
tive with fuel alone costing more than double the cost per KWh at King Tom.
The Guma hydro-plant was out of order for most of the past two years and
has only recently been repaired; with increasing water demand in Freetown,
the water available seasonally for power generation (surplus from water
supply demand) is constantly decreasing and may soon be at a level inade-
quate for power generation. Therefore, it is estimated that at the comple-
tion of the rehabilitation work currently being undertaken by SLEC firm
capacity will be limited to about 16 MW. This is hardly enough to meet
present demand let alone future requirements projected to increase at the
rate of about 7 to 10 percent per annum over the next five years.
25.       SLEC supplies electricity to 14 provincial centers.     In 1975,
total installed capacity (all diesel units) in these centers was 11.2 MW.
The largest system at Kenema has 3 MW and the smallest at Pujehun has 58
KW. Many of the units have been in operation over ten years and are of
doubtful reliability.
Institutions
26.       Established in 1964 as a government corporation to succeed the
Electricity Division of the Ministry of Works, SLEC is vested with the
responsibility for the development and supply of electric power through-
out the country. It also has the authority to license other entities or
persons for electricity production.
27.       SLEC has experienced managerial, operational and financial prob-
lems since 1969 when labor problems led to the resignation of the corpora-
tion's management. In 1973, SLEC had difficulties with its main generating



- 8 -
units and had to apply extensive load shedding in the system supplying
Freetown. These difficulties were compounded by financial problems that
resulted from the fourfold increase in fuel costs in 1973/74 and delay
in adjusting tariffs to cover increased costs. Dissatisfaction with SLEC's
management led the Government to enter into a five-year contract with a
German consulting firm, Oskar von Miller (OvM), which was entrusted with
responsibility for the management of the corporation. At the same time the
Government created a Ministry of Energy and Power, modified the Electricity
Corporation Act, and suspended SLEC's Board, having transferred its duties
and prerogatives to the new Ministry. Mainly as a result of the change
in management and tariff increases in FYs 1974, 1975 and 1977, there has
been some improvement in SLEC's management and financial performance.
28.       The Government decision in 1974 to take steps toward improving
SLEC's management and finances provided a reasonably sound base for orderly
sector operation and planning. As a start, SLEC and OvM prepared a crash
program and followed this with a five-year plan which is mostly aimed at
improving reliability in the Western System on the assumption that power
from the proposed Bumbuna hydro scheme or an alternative scheme would be-
come available in the mid-1980s. Feasibility studies have already been
undertaken for a plant at Bumbuna Falls on the Seli River. The project now
under consideration would include further studies to examine its viability
and recommend an appropriate phasing for the scheme, and also design ser-
vices for the first stage of construction. In view of the large size and
complexity of the Bumbuna scheme, its preparation and subsequent implementa-
tion would be beyond SLEC's administrative capacity. The Government has
therefore taken steps to establish a Bumbuna Development Committee. This
Committee includes senior representatives of relevant government ministries
and, with the assistance of an Executive engineer, will be responsible for
the necessary preparatory work (paragraph 34 below). The Committee would
permit the orderly planning of the Bumbuna project and possibly provide the
nucleus for the establishment of a more formal organization, e.g., an Auth-
ority which would implement and subsequently operate the hydro project. A
merger between SLEC and such an Authority, if established, might be consid-
ered after the completion of the Bumbuna project. However, until Bumbuna or
an alternative scheme is operative, additional generating capacity will be
needed in Freetown to meet expected load growth and to improve system reli-
ability. Also, more generating capacity will be required in a number of pro-
vincial centers to replace worn-out units and to meet load growth. In addi-
tion some rehabilitation and expansion of distribution system are urgently
needed.
Sector Objectives
29.       This background sets the following sector objectives: (a) restore
system reliability and meet the load in the system supplying Freetown; (b)
improve system reliability and meet the load in existing provincial systems;
(c) plan the next large addition to generating capacity; (d) create a sector
organization capable of planning and implementing the sector development pro-
gram; and (e) assure financial viability of the sector.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
30.       The first two loans (Loans 388-SL in 1964 for US$3.8 million and
553-SL in 1968 for US$3.9 million) helped SLEC finance the installation of
the three diesel-electric units at the King Tom power station in Freetown,
diesel-electric sets in provincial centers, and expansion of associated dis-
tribution facilities. Both operations have been completed. While the imple-
mentation of the physical aspects of the projects under these two loans has
been generally successful, the King Tom units have suffered frequent outages,
possibly due to deficient initial maintenance. At the same time SLEC has
suffered from managerial and financial weaknesses which have impaired the
corporation's capacity to provide reliable service. The performance under
the second power project (553-SL) has recently been reviewed by the Opera-
tions Evaluation Department and the Project Performance Audit Report (No.
1610 dated May 27, 1977) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
The report refers to the same problems as noted in this paragraph, i.e.,
the financial and managerial weaknesses of SLEC and the decline in the relia-
bility of the Western System. To the extent that no corrective measures have
yet been taken, the proposed third power project would address these prob-
lems. It would also help finance: (a) urgently needed extension of genera-
tion and distribution facilities in the capital city, Freetown, and in sev-
eral provincial centers, and (b) further studies and project preparation for
the Bumbuna hydro-electric power plant.
31.       The project was identified and prepared by SLEC with the assis-
tance of the Bank and appraised in March 1975. Because of substantial
changes in the load forecast and the need for a reassessment of the reli-
ability of the generating and distribution system, re-appraisal was carried
out in November, 1975. Processing of the project was subsequently delayed
pending action by Government to introduce measures to stabilize the Sierra
Leone economy (paragraph 13 above). The principal features of the project
were reviewed by Bank missions in April 1976 and April 1977.
32.       The Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of the Sierra Leone
Third Power Project", No. 1183a-SL, dated June 17, 1977 is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations for the proposed devel-
opment credit commenced in Washington in July 1976, with a Sierra Leone
delegation led by Mr. Strasser-King, Financial Secretary.
Project Description
33.       The proposed project comprises:



- 10 -
Part A - To be Executed by SLEC
1.   Extension of Generating and Distribution Facilities in Freetown
(a) Addition of a fourth diesel-electric unit of 9.2 MW at the
King Tom power plant, including switching devices and all
necessary electrical and mechanical auxiliaries;
(b) Construction of the first stage of a proposed 33
KV distribution for the Western system, which will
form a direct link between the King Tom power plant
and the industrial area; and
(c) Study of the causes of the breakdowns of the three
existing electric generators at King Tom and procure-
ment and installation of protective/preventive de-
vices.
2.   Extension of Generating Facilities at Provincial Centers
(a) Addition of a 1,000 KW medium-speed diesel-electric
set at Makeni power plant;
(b) Addition of a 500 KW medium-speed diesel-electric
set at Lungi; and
(c) Addition of eight 100 KW diesel units at various
provincial centers.
3.   Data Processing Equipment
Provision of data processing equipment for customers'
billing, inventory records and general accounting.
4.   Consultants' Services
(a) Planning, procurement and construction supervision
of the extension of generating facilities in pro-
vincial centers and for the preparation of a master
plan for the orderly development of these systems;
(b) Planning, procurement and construction supervision
of the King Tom extension and of the 33 KV distri-
bution; and
(c) Improvement of SLEC's financial management and
accounting procedures.
Part B - To be Executed by Government
(a) Updating and completing the existing feasibility studies of
the Bumbuna scheme, particularly the technical and economic
viability of a first stage, which will have to be firmly
identified; and



- 11 -
(b) Design studies for the selected first stage and preparation
of tender documents.
Project Execution
34.       SLEC would retain overall responsibility for executing Part A of
the project. The consultants presently managing SLEC would assist in super-
vising the installation of the generating units and distribution facilities.
Consultants would be engaged to study the problems with the King Tom genera-
tors, supervise procurement and installation of preventive devices, and ad-
vise on improvement in SLEC's management and financial procedures. As noted
in paragraph 28 above, SLEC will not have the capacity to execute the pre-
paratory work necessary for the Bumbuna hydro-plant (Part B of the Project).
Government has already taken steps to set up a Bumbuna Development Committee
and its full establishment, under terms of reference acceptable to IDA,
would be a condition of disbursement of credit funds for the Bumbuna part
of the project (draft Development Credit; Schedule 1, para. 4). The Govern-
ment has agreed to appoint a suitably qualified and experienced executive en-
gineer to be responsible, under the general direction of the Bumbuna Develop-
ment Committee, for the planning of the hydro-plant and coordination between
all related government departments. Appointment of the engineer would also
be a condition of disbursement of credit funds for this part of the project.
Disbursement for the design phase of the Bumbuna Project would be contingent
on the feasibility study establishing its viability to the satisfaction of
IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement; Schedule 1, paragraph 4).
Project Costs and Financing
35.       Of the total project cost estimated at US$15.2 million (net of
taxes and customs duties), US$13.2 million or 87 percent represents the for-
eign exchange cost. The proposed IDA credit of US$8.2 million will cover
62 percent of this foreign cost; the remainder would be financed by BADEA
which has already approved a loan to Government of US$5.0 million with an
interest rate of 4 percent per annum and a term of 15 years, including 5
years of grace. SLEC/Government would be responsible for the balance of
project cost, which is equal to US$2.0 million. The following is a tabula-
tion of the financing plan:
Expenditure
Local   Foreign    Total
---- (US$ million) ----
SLEC/Government       1.04      0.96      2.00
IDA                    -        8.20      8.20
BADEA                 0.96       4.04     5.00
Total      2.00     13.20     15.20
Relending Terms
36.       The Government would be the borrower for both the proposed IDA
credit and BADEA loan. The Government would retain from the IDA credit



- 12 -
the amount required to finance the foreign exchange costs of the prepara-
tion of the Bumbuna Project (US$1.1 million) and relend the balance to
SLEC under a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions accetable
to the Association. It is proposed that the IDA credit be relent by
Government to SLEC at an interest rate of 8.5 percent per annum with a
repayment period of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace. BADEA's
loan would be relent for 15 years, including 5 years grace, at 8.5 per-
cent interest per annum.
Procurement and Disbursement
37.       As the Executive Directors have been informed from time to time
in the Monthly Operational Summary, an extraordinary situation has arisen in
the case of this project, with the result that it would now involve retroactive
financing in the amount of US$5.7 million. This situation has arisen from
the combination of two factors: the urgent requirement for the installation
of additional power capacity, and the long delay in bringing the project
forward for your approval, owing to the country's economic circumstances.
Due to the old and poor condition of many of the smaller units and the frequent
breakdowns of the King Tom units, referred to in paragraph 24, firm capacity
was below peak demand as far back as 1975. To improve the reliability of
supply and to help meet current requirements as well as the projected demand
increase of 7-10 percent per annum through FY82, the prompt installation of a
new 9.2 MW unit at King Tom was considered urgent. Accordingly, SLEC, with the
Bank's conditional approval and on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, awarded contracts in December
1975 for both the equipment and the associated civil works for the King Tom
extension. At that time it was expected that the proposed credit would be
presented to the Executive Directors soon thereafter. However, in the event,
presentation of the credit had to be repeatedly postponed due to the continued
deterioration of the Sierra Leone economy during 1976 and pending steps by the
Government to take remedial measures. After a series of discussions with the
IMF during 1976 and early 1977, the Government recently introduced an economic
stabilization program in support of which the IMF has provided financial
resources under a standby arrangement (paragraph 13 above). In the meantime
progress payments amounting to US$5.7 million have been made to contractors in
respect of equipment and civil works for the King Tom extension. In these
very special circumstances, it is recommended that IDA retroactively finance
these payments.
38.       The data processing equipment would be procured after international
competitive bidding from firms with local service facilities.
39.       The IDA credit would be disbursed as follows: (a) for the King Tom
expansion, 100 percent of the foreign cost of equipment, 60 percent of the
total cost of civil works (representing the estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent) and 50 percent of the foreign cost of engineering services; (b) 100
percent of foreign cost of data processing equipment; and (c) 100 percent
of the foreign cost of consultants' services for Bumbuna project preparation.
40.       The project items to be financed by BADEA (i.e., extension of dis-
tribution facilities; generating units for provincial centers; corrective
measures at King Tom; and improvement of SLEC's financial management and



- 13 -
accounting procedures) would be procured in accordance with procurement
procedures approved by BADEA. Signature of the BADEA loan would be a con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (draft Development Credit
Agreement; Section 6.01).
Organization and Management of SLEC
41.       SLEC is headed by a General Manager who is accountable to the Min-
istry of Energy and Power. Day-to-day business is under the "direction and
control" of the Minister, which restricts the autonomy of management and im-
pedes operational efficiency. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that SLEC's General Manager would be permitted to fully and effec-
tively exercise his executive and management responsibilities (draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement; Section 4.01).
42.       At present, SLEC is organized in five departments -- Generation,
Distribution, Finance, Administration and Personnel. The General Manager
and the heads of Generation, Distribution and Finance departments are ex-
patriates provided by OvM under a five-year management contract referred to
in paragraph 27 above. It was the intention that Sierra Leonean counter-
parts would be attached to the four members of the OvM management team and
receive on-the-job training. Three local counterparts have already been
appointed and are in their positions; however, the counterpart for the head
of the Generation Department is yet to be appointed, and his appointment
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement; Section 6.01).
43.       At the end of FY 1977, SLEC's total staff was 1,365 (800 in Western
system; 565 in the Provinces) which corresponds to one employee per 18 con-
nections. This is a very high ratio compared with similar utilities in other
countries (e.g., Liberia, Senegal and Ivory Coast) ard indicates overstaff-
ing, particularly at the lower levels. The Government and SLEC have agreed
that, until a satisfactory staffing and training program has been prepared,
SLEC's staff will not be increased (draft Development Credit Agreement; Sec-
tion 4.02; draft Project Agreement; Section 3.02). Despite the relatively
large staff at lower levels, SLEC is experiencing a shortage of medium and
top management personnel with adequate qualifications. SLEC is currently
preparing a program for staffing and training which it expects to complete
by December 31, 1977; SLEC has agreed to start implementing the program by
September 30, 1978 (draft Project Agreement; Section 3.02).
44.       SLEC's financial administration requires strengthening.     The pro-
ject provides for 48 man-months of consultancy services (about US$5,600 per
man-month) to review and implement improvements in the fields of accounting,
data processing, internal audit procedures, purchasing and stores. In addi-
tion, the consultants would advise on assets revaluation (see paragraph 48
below). Appointment of the financial consultants under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
credit (draft Development Credit Agreement; Section 6.01).
SLEC's Financial Position
45.       SLEC's financial position deteriorated during the period FY 1972-75.
The growth of energy sales was sluggish, varying between actual decline in



- 14 -
FY 1972 to 8 percent increase in FY 1973 and FY 1974. Tariffs remained con-
stant until mid-FY 1975, and additional revenues from higher sales were inade-
quate to offset annual increases in operating expenses. The main reason for
the high annual increase in operating expenses was the fourfold increase in
fuel costs, particularly in FY 1974 and FY 1975. Also contributing to the
deterioration of SLEC's financial position were relatively high distribution
losses and unaccounted for energy at 21 percent of net generation (gross gen-
eration less station use). These losses result mainly from consumer fraud.
Nevertheless, better system control has now been instituted by SLEC and
losses are expected to come down to about 16 percent of net generation for
FY77. SLEC's rate of return dropped from 8.5 percent in FY 1971 to 2.7 per-
cent in FY 1972, and became negative during FY 1973 through FY 1975. In
view of SLEC's poor financial position in the early 1970s, the Government
advanced about US$6.6 million to the corporation during FY 1974-76, some of
which was used to service external debt.
46.       SLEC was allowed to increase its tariff in three stages (September
1974, January 1975, and January 1977) from 0.045 to 0.109 Le/KWh to improve
its financial position. Audited figuras for FY 1975 show a 63 percent in-
crease in operating revenues relative to FY 1974, and from FY 1975 to FY 1976
it is estimated that revenues grew by an additional 35 percent. The rate of
return is estimated to be about 1.4 percent in FY 1976 rising to 9.7 percent
in FY 1977, compared with the 8 percent stipulated in the past two loan
agreements with the Bank. Financial projections indicate that SLEC will
need in the future to earn a higher rate of return than 8 percent on unre-
valued assets in order to generate sufficient funds to meet its financial
obligations and build up a modest reserve. The Government has agreed to
permit SLEC to revise its tariffs from time to time to enable it to earn
until the end of FY 1979 a rate of return of at least 10 percent on pres-
ently valued assets; after asset revaluation has been completed, the Asso-
ciation and SLEC would agree upon a new rate of return which would not be
less than 8 percent in FY 1980 and thereafter (draft Development Credit
Agreement; Section 4.06: draft Project Agreement; Section 4.03).
47.        The present book values of SLEC's assets do not reflect current
cost and SLEC has agreed to revalue its assets fully by the end of FY 1979.
Also, some of the depreciation rates presently used by SLEC are too low;
SLEC has, therefore, agreed to revise its depreciation policy by March 31,
1978 in a manner satisfactory to IDA (draft Project Agreement; Section 4.04).
SLEC has also agreed that it would not incure any new long-term loans with-
out prior consultation with IDA, unless the maximum total future debt ser-
vice is covered 1.5 times by SLEC's operating income before depreciation
(draft Project Agreement; Section 4.06).
48.        Until recently, the fuel price paid by SLEC was very high mainly
because of the uneconomic local refinery and the high mark-up charged to
SLEC by the distributors. The distributors have an exclusive distribution
agreement with the refinery which is owned 51 percent by the Government and
49 percent by the distributors (five oil companies). However the Government



- 15 -
has agreed to take all the necessary measures to ensure that the current
price of fuel to SLEC will be maintained at least until December 31, 1977.
Thereafter, any increase will not exceed the increase in the world market
price of fuel (draft Development Credit Agreement; Section 4.07).
49.        In the past, Government has compensated SLEC for losses on pro-
vincial operations at a fixed rate of Le 70,000 a year (US$60,345). How-
ever, even with proposed future tariff increases and stabilized fuel costs,
losses on provincial operations are expected to be substantially higher
than this. Accordingly, the Government has agreed to compensate SLEC on
an actual basis determined in accordance with normal accounting procedures
for any losses which might occur, beginning in FY 1977 (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). Payment of the FY 1977 losses, estimated
to be Le 0.48 million (US$0.41 million) would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed credit (draft Development Credit Agreement; Section
6.01). SLEC's accounts receivable have been high in the past; this is due
in part to the fact that the public sector has persistently been in arrears
in paying its electricity accounts. The Government has agreed that the Min-
istry of Finance would pay bills promptly and fully for all departments and
government-owned agencies. In the case of autonomous agencies the Ministry
of Finance would pay bills of those agencies for which the Government does
not allow the normal disconnection procedures, if they have failed to pay
within 60 days after presentation of bills (draft Development Credit Agree-
ment; Section 4.03). In order to protect further SLEC's finances, Government
has agreed not to transfer to SLEC the financial responsibility for the Guma
hydro power plant (draft Development Credit Agreement; Section 4.05); SLEC,
however, would continue to operate the plant as an agent of Government.
50.       With implementation of the foregoing measures, SLEC's financial
position should be satisfactory. Debt service coverage will be at least
2.1 times during the forecast period through FY 1982. SLEC should also have
an adequate cash balance in each year. The projected cash balance may be
used to finance the local costs of the next phase of the power development
program or for payment of dividends to Government; SLEC has agreed to con-
sult with IDA before declaring any dividend (draft Project Agreement; Sec-
tion 4.08).
Project Benefits and Risks
51.       The project would help SLEC in its efforts to fully meet present
demand and projected requirements through 1980 and to restore a measure of
reliability in supplying the electric power required for sustaining the Sierra
Leonean economy. Its implementation would give both the Government and the
utility time during which they would be able to investigate and define the
optimum solution for the facilities needed for the further development of the
sector. Failure to execute the proposed project could result in widespread
blackouts of the power system in Freetown, with serious disruption of the
economy. The project would also assist in strengthening the management,
operations and services of the corporation.



- 16 -
52.       The proposed investment is the least cost alternative.     Allow-
ing for a shadow price for foreign exchange at 30 percent over the market
price, the rate of return on the project would be about 13 percent for the
Western system part, which accounts for about 88 percent of the total cost of
the SLEC component of the project, and about 9 percent for the provincial
part, which amounts for the remaining 12 percent. The weighted rate of return
for the SLEC part of the project would therefore be 12.5 percent. The low
rate of return on the provincial components of the project reflects the
Government's policy of uniform tariffs and the relatively small size of the
provincial systems. The true economic return on these investments, however,
will be higher than suggested here because the rates which were taken as proxy
for benefits underestimate the full benefits to consumers, particularly those
newly acceding to service. As explained in the preceding paragraphs, SLEC has
had management and financial difficulties in the past. However, both the
Government and SLEC are now making serious efforts to overcome these difficul-
ties and to restore the Corporation's financial viability. Given these
efforts and the measures taken recently by the Government to stabilize the
country's economy, project risks are considered to be acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Sierra Leone and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between SLEC and the Association,
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section I (d)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the draft Resolution approving
the proposed Development Credit are being distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors separately.
54.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report. Special conditions of effectiveness of the pro-
posed credit would be: (a) Execution of the BADEA loan agreement (paragraph
41); (b) Appointment of the Sierra Leonean counterpart for the head of the
Generation Department of SLEC (paragraph 43); (c) Appointment of financial
consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 45);
and (d) Government payment to SLEC of losses on rural operations for FY 1977
(paragraph 50). Conditions of disbursement of credit funds for the Bumbuna
part of the project would be: (a) establishment of the Bumbuna Development
Committee; and (b) appointment of an executive engineer to supervise, under
the general direction of the Bumbuna Development Committee, the planning and
execution of the Bumbuna part of the project (paragraph 34). A condition of
disbursement of credit funds for the design phase of the Bumbuna project would
be the completion of the feasibility study establishing its viability to the
satisfaction of IDA (paragraph 34).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association approve
the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 29, 1977



ll   It ll n   O
O 1
Iz wz  wz    z c;   c7
T W
V      M                                                                                                                          A R
I I T T I
F   r   C.
ft-



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
Ulnless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any veer between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Host Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
-     Zambia has bees ee lecced as an objective coutry be.ause itee pee o.Pita inonn          Is noes  han twice as high asSierra       ene'    end its econoic
atrueture elan depends heaily an the nining sector.
SIERRA LEONE       1960     I   1963;     lb   Ratio sf papalation coder 13 and 65 and over to tctsl labor forc;           /  1962;     Id   Incloding cidwives;
/e 1965.
1970     I   Ratio of papolation coder 13 ned 65 asd seer to total labor force;             /b  As percntage of working population;
Ic 1967-69;     Id  1967-68, esolading Western Province;         /e  Including nidwive     and assistant norsee;       /f   1967,
Preeton only.
MOST RECENT ESTfIMATE:      la   1971;     lb  Ratio of population coder 15 asd 65 and over to total labor force'             Ic  As per-stage
working population;       /d  1972;     Ic   1969-71 averge.
LIBERIA            1970     /   Due to bnsigration, the growth rate is higher than the rate of .atora1 inrae                  /b   Ratio of popolation ceder 15
and 65 aed over to total labor force;         Ic  On..opleyed and partially employed;        Id:  Population, 1975 Sank E-ocoic
Report.   Higber incom    -1-cisted as residoal, isclades enpatriates;           Ic  1964-66.
GHANA              1970     Is  toladlng oncployed;         lb   Regist.erd, not all practicing in the coa ntry;         Ic  1966-68.
Z*MBIA             1970     /   1965-69;      /b  Persona seeking work;       / Ic 1elding assistant Dnurse;         Id   1964-66;     /c   Tota.1  urhan and trora;
If Inside only.
R5, fMay 13, 1977
DRFINITION OP SOCLAL INfDICATORS
Land Area (thon iso)                                                                        Poecistion set noraino pers on - Popolation divded by stober of pra-ticing
Total1  Total -ofar    arsc osprising land area end island watr.-                             nab  and fnal    g-sdoace caress, "trained" or "certified" sre ,nd
Agric. -Kost -onet esti ta       of agric-Itoral ares coed tsnporarily or P.en-               sailisep personne    with train,ing or seperiesce.
nentcly tee crops, pascores, otrket A kitchns gardens or to lie fallow,                   Popolation oner harita1 bed - PopulatIon dIvded by nooher of hospital beds
avilable to poblic and priests gecera1 end specialleed hospital sod
GNP net capits (US$) - SoaP Per caPita estimates a ccrr.nt -ak- pricec ,                      r-hsbilitacioc-stsrs ; eolodes eorsisg bone      aend notablishnesa   for
aelc-Iatad by sac   convrsion -etbhd asWorld Rack Atlas (1973-75 basis);                    costadia1 sod pr-v-ti-e care,
1960; 1970 esd 1975 data.                                                                 Per ..pit. sorely of caoresf      of reocirenets) - Cnputed free energy
qoiv-lsnt of net food sopplies a-ilable to c.u-try par capita per day;
Popolation sed vital scatistic-                                                               a-ilabla cappliss rspriss dooatic pr-daccion, iaports loss ecporta, aod
Pepe.iscio  (.id-ya     flon       so    l  lp fis:   if sot avilable, average                rhacgr  Sc stook; net eaPPlies    -Iclde acinal feed, se.ds, qoa..cicies used
or two nsd-y-a rstbaes       i6, 1970 ad 1975 dsc.                                          toi oo   process isg sod iosn    nt distrthotian; req.irsenets -sr   ntinated
by F'AO based on physiological useda   .    -ceocna  -etiny and health conid-
Popclation density - per snuare ic   - Mid-pent popalation per square kilcaster               ering sovirsoeta1 tmnper t-te      body weights, age and se. diatribotions of
(ISO hectaree)Iof total area.                                                               PaPolatin, and allowingilot for wears at hocoehold level.
PocamdnIty-Per ecc-e be       1 ofacn   land - Canpoted as above for               Per eseita sopenly of _rtei   (aren per day) - protein content af par capita
agrie-Itrara  land only.                                                                    net aupply of feed per day; ne t sopply of foad ie defined as above; reqo ire-
nect  fo  al  cectris ntablished by USDA Econaic RO...sr-h Service
vital ctatistics                                                                              prvdeo ilccalsnec                     h   rs    fttlponcprdy                nd
trude birth rat   pratchonsand. a-eraa    - Annoal lIve births par thcoa...d of               20 gras of anbnei and poSse protein, of which 10 gSnc shoo1d be enimal
old-year populactios; tee-year arithestic averges ending in 1960 and 1970,                  pratein; these atandarda are lower than those of 75 gr-ofac      total proceic
ae.d fivs-yesr averge ending in 1975 for ams      --i crnn  tsicate.                         cod 23 gr-n of acic,al protsis as nc avrage for the       -1rd, proposed by FAO
Crde death rat     e re thodeand, a--rae - onnosS deetba per thacoand of cid-year             ic the Third World Food S-rvy.
PoPulation; -e-ye-r ritlaott      avera-esnedtng is 1960 ecd 19 70 end fiv-               Per caritaerctcin sorely fr-ee a    Ima  end eolsn  - Protein  appip of food
.yea   ..s.g .c.ding is 1975 for nose reoc t estimate,                                       deiedfeeaiml            nd pclsec Is gran   par ds.y
ctenrtlity race i/thou) - Acoca    deaths of icfacto under on. year of ege            Dssth rate l/tho) ages    I-4 -  nA--I deaths per thoosaed So age greop 1-4
par thoaasnd live births.                                                                   years, to children in this age groop; soggestedass indc-t-r of
Life -p-et-ncy at birth (nra) - Average seber of yeare of life renaming at                     -nalntrition.
birth; ...aalyp ftln-year avragSec endi ieI 1960, 19 70 end 1975 far dovelop-
to  tm,riee                                                                            Education
Crass raprrdsocion rae-veae             bmae  of lin  duagh terrsso-n rOll hear              diduatad enrollmnt ratio - primary schoel - icrollnson of all agns as per-
to her norarI     roocive priod if shs eceiecs           rsetas-pciiensage of pri- ry school-,gs population;                              -inoldes childres aged 6-li years
fertility rates; ansly flo-e-pa      averages ending ic 1960, 1970 and 1975                 hot adjasted far different lengths of primary edocstion      for contries with
far d_n1lptng contries.                                                                      nivers-1 edcetion, -croleet cay eaceed 100% cims sinc         pupils are hbloc
,Pseoltie growt rate (II) total - Cmopood ac-o.I gr-wth rates of          ld-pear              or ebov  the offiria1 cchoo1 age.
popalesian for1950-hi, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adlceted erollment ratio-sleondory school - Conputed an         bhoe; -eodery
Poroation orowth rate (13 -    -rbas -.icapoted Ilk. groth rats of total                       edastion reqaires at least foor pears of eppro-ed prinesy isatrution;
posals  diffe rnet definitioa ofuorb an arnas nay affct ccn,parability of              provide.S.. Rasaral..voctional or tascber craieiog ierutosfor pupils
data anasg toontries.                                                                        of 12 to 17 yeses of age; correepodndeec   coorses are geners11y -sIuded.
Urban papalstin ft of total) - Ratio of arhan to total pepoletion; differest                 years of choolimn  Provided (first sc ecnd     levels-1) - Tots1 years of
dafiinia      of arba  areas asp affect coperbility of dsts seeng coustrise.                 scooing; at secondarY level, v...stional isacructioc nay be partiallyo
omplecely socladed.
aRe structor .  ..ceet) - Children (0-14 pear), working-age (15-64 yearn),                  Vocationa enrollmet (7. of lecondary) - Vocticelioticos                eld
and retired (65 .o.r    and 00cr) as per-tau of old-year popolatios.ehia,inocilo.terporn                                                hc    op-rtita nindpsdcludcra
Age deednyrti            ai    fPoPulation -oder 15 and 65 and ove.r.t these                  depamnaecs. of secondary ito.titotions.
of egs  15 through h4.                                                                  Ado.t,11 ter..n rate  )-ltrc         odoltt (able to read nd -rito)aspr
foanmoc deredeocy et to - ice   of PoPo1atias ceder 15 and 65 and ovr cccttgof                      oa   adult   P.poa   n agd 15 year     e    cr.
the labor force to age group of 11-64 pears.
Pal :lacn  -acpor    couaio        ,thou)  --aoltive saber of accptors              Rousing
of hirth-coecrol dovi-e under suopicra of cational feeily planeing progra                  Persons per raan (-rbsn) - A-erai    cuoher of perons per ie       n Sc  otpied
since Ince Ption.                                                                            convtianal dwellings in crbasarsc; dwellings e-1,lde con-ptrnanet
P_eello    n elcin, - ar     fcrid woses          - Prcnts geeof carried cones o               ctr,aturss and onocc-pied perca.
chl-ern  ge (11-44 pears) who uc. birth-conro     devcsto      l orrid             Occoetd d..slosg     ibn     ie     ae    %       coidccetoa                iig
wonen it s-ee aio group,                                                                     Iso    sad rrlaeswtotiid                   orcotapideppd     water,_. f -1ciigi
an percentaen l occopidedppedw-ellf-egs.
Duelaycent                                                            A~~~~~~~,ccs to eecrficiy(.o  l  duelIcas    - to-entiocl d-1licgn with
Total. endr force ptossd)bu  -1Econmairauly activ    pasn,lo1d- amdeetricity in living qcarters as percent of total dwellings in urhee sod
farces sod osenplsped boc sscludicg  oosewives t, otdests., etc.; definitions   r-1 aes
In va.riecs ceocrie le  re not -op-rble.                                                  Rorsi doallIings con'cted to electricitY (7) - Cputed as above for rural
laha.r foosisa   1icitre (TI) - Agricultural labor foect (is fsroing, forestry.                 wlig,ny
hueticg sed fishn)a       pretg       o f totl Ishor frr
Unnployed to     labor force) -oepped ae usa. aly defined as persns oha                      Consunptlos
are able an     Illng to take aJab, on      f a Job oagives day, renaicn'd at              Rdorciesle            huea          l         frciesfrrdohodst
of  . ja, and seeking warh far a spsoifisd n1icinm  perio  ca   ecedtcg one                ogcrlpbi           s     osn     fpplto;scldsulcce                     eevr
-ke; npct be cepareble betwen cooscrico doe to different definitions                         is  octrsssd Sc yeara when regitracis o           radioat      s  i   fet
ofonpaed ad    cource of deta, ef' , onPIYenyct office statistics, seeple               data far recent yearn nap not be ceeparable since coat conotries abolished
eavys, c_epuls..ry oneeploynet iIaace                                                         ioncaing.
Ineme ididrihtio      1-Per   tige of private inc-e (bot       is-h and bind)                  less  hse  ightpersna;     atloes a-ulacentears
heci1d.    byrchest 5%, rinbest 207%, poorest 20%, sod po-rst 40% of boe-                    vhce, .c-nlcr
belde.                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-etricity (kwh/yr per car) - Annual constaPtion of industrial,  -m-ercil.
poblic end private   Iarricity tn kIlowatt honro Per caPita, geer. lipy
Diistribatioc of land -wnrebip -   Perce-gaes of lend caed by -e1thirac       107.             baa..d e  pradoindt,stocalwcefrlse                          cgisbtalw
and poorest lOt of land m5r.n                                                                tog fan      d imots ad' enpogtsof elecricity
Health end sutrition                                                                           estpimate  frednscpoutinpa                 netit   im pots a  ineekpit.g
Po Mainra phyicdian - Papolotion divded by cn-ber of practicing                               titdfr        d-    ipdt-            u.    t   pr       fn..rit
Phyinan     qslfe       ree a nedica1 arh-i at university lens.I



SIERRA LEONE
May 9, 1977
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ORtOSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant 1967-69 prices)
US$ Mln.       %                        1967-70           1970-74            1975
ONP at Market Prices          639.3        100.0                       7.3                2.3               -
Gross Domestic Investment      98.B         15.5                      18.9               -9.4             1.3
Gross National Saving          35.1          5.5                      60.8              -32.0            13.0
Current Account Balance       -63.7         10.0
Exports of Goods, NFS         149.5         23.4                      11.4               -5.6            -2.7
Imports of Goods, NFS         212.7         33.3                       7.6               -2.6           -21.3
OUTPUT, IABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                   Labor Force-/                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                         Nln.       %                   U1
Agriculture                    211.0      35.5              0.840      73.0                  251.2        48.6
Industry                       136.9      23.0              0.094       8.2                1,456.4       281.9
services                       246.3      41.5              0.190      16.5                1,296.3       250.9
Unallocated                       .         .               0.026       2.3
Total/Average          =7       lOO.O               l.= -u                          s56          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                             Central Oovernment
(  Mln.)   % pf GDP               ( Le, N~ln.)       % of ODP( c)
j ~                                       (~Ž~:fl~)     Aoff GOPci7
197          197        196 -7                1975/76       1975/76  1972/73-74/75
Current Receipts                                                                     39,8     16,8         22.8
Current Expenditure                                                                 143.5     26.8         25.5
Current Surplus                                                                     -53.6     10.0          2.7
Capital Expenditures                                                                 24.9      4.6          5.8
External Assistance (net)                                                            39.7      7.4           3.6
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                  1971         1972        1973        1974         1975        1976
(Mlllion Le. outstanding   nd period)
Money and Quasi Money                     47.8         56.0         70.5        84.2        90.1         111.0
Bank credit to Public Sector 2/            8.0          9.4        15.1         23.0        58.7        107.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector             19.6         21.7         28.2        35.1        39.5         43.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP m.P.)   13.5         15.5         18.0        17.4        15.4
General Price Index (1963 - 100)23       140.0        147.9        156.1       178.6       214.2         251.0
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                       -1.7          5.6          5.5        14.4        19.9          17.2
Bank credit to Public Sector             220.0         17.5         60.6        52.3       155.2          82.8
Bank credit to Private Sector              1.0         10.7         30.0        24.5        12.5         10.1
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
y Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.     "'Unallocated"' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Commercial Banks and Central Bank
3/ Consumer Price Index (Freetown)
not available
not applicable



.ANNEX I.
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMHNTS AND CAPITAL FWSB
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974     1975                                                US $Min     %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS  148.6    168.6   149.5                Diamonds                          80.4    60.1
Exports of Goods, NFS          176.1    168.3      .                 Iron Ore                          14.3    10.7
lmports of Goods, NFS         -176.1   -23     -2.7Cocoa                                                8.2     6.1
Resource Gap (deficit 5 -)   - 27.5    -74 7   - -6-                 Coffee                             7.8     5.8
Palm Kernel                        6.8      5.1
Imterest Paymemts (met)         ..       .        ,Bauxite                                              4.4     3.3
Workers' Remittances                                                 B                                  4        3
Other Factor Payments (net)    -8.0     -7.3     -10,9
Net Transfers                   6.5     22.0      10.4              All other commodities              11.9     8.9
Balance on Current Account    -T       -         -37                      Total                       133.8   100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       4.1      8.8      10.0            EXTERNAL DEBT.   JtUNE 30, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing              14.6     42.0      28.7
Disbursements               27.1     53.0      39.6                                                       US $ Mln
Amortization               -12.5    -11.0     -10.9
Subtotal                   -10.3    - 9.8     -25.0              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              174.8
Capital Grants                   .         *        a               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            14.8    -11,6     - 6.0              Total outstanding & Disbursed              174.8
Other items n.e.i               3.8     16.0       8.8
Increase in Reserves (+)        8.3    - 5.4     -22.2            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975
7%
Gross Reserves (end year)                  .
Net Reserves    (end year)     39.8      33.7     12.7               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           9.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed            9.8
Imports                       9.2     25.3     22,4
of which:  Petroleum
Exports
of which:  Petroleum         ,        ,                  IBRD/IDA LENDING, ( April30, 1977) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                      IBRD         IDA
In 1971                         In 1975                        Outstanding & Disbursed             13 .7        12.6
US $ 1.00 =   .8297             US $ 1.00 = .9002 Le           Undisbursed                           5.0        10.5
Le 1.00   =  US $ 1.2053        Le 1.00   = US $ 1.1109        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       18.7         23.1
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services. Excludes debt servicing of arrears
($9.776 million in principal and $2.963 in interest by June, 1976.)
not available
not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at April 30, 1977)
Loan or                                                      US$ million
Credit                                               Amount  (less cancellations)
Number  Year     Borrower          Purpose            Bank   IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Four Loans and Three Credits Fully Disbursed          13.7  10.8           -
1138    1975  Sierra Leone      Agriculture II         5.0    -           5.0
568    1975   Sierra Leone     Agriculture II          -    5.0          3.3
573    1975   Sierra Leone     Education II            -    7.3          7.1
Total                                   18.7  23.1        15.4
of which has been repaid               2.7    -
Total now outstanding                   16.0  23.1
Amount sold                     0.5
of which has been repaid      0.5      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA          16.0  23.1
Total undisbursed                        5.0  10.4        15.4
1/   Net of Exchange Adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 pages
B.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. 568-SL           Second Agricultural Project:   US$5 million
Credit of July 2, 1975 and US$5 million Loan
Loan No. 1138-SL            of July 2, 1975; Effective Date:   January 29,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project is designed to expand the IDA-financed first agricul-
tural project in the Eastern Province (under Credit No. 323-SL) and to initi-
ate a new agricultural development project in the Northern Province of Sierra
Leone, increasing farm incomes through expanded production of swamp and upland
rice, cocoa, oil palm, establishment of permanent farm support services, and
provision of agricultural credit and infrastructural facilities. The loan/
credit was declared effective on January 29, 1976, waiving the oustanding con-
ditions of effectiveness with respect to recruitment of key staff for the
Northern Area Project and the Project Evaluation and Services Unit. There
have been delays in the recruitment of senior project management and technical
staff due to difficulty in finding suitable candidates; as a result, project
implementation has been slowed down. Nevertheless, an expatriate project man-
ager has now been appointed and is expected to take up his post in July; and
attempts are continuing to fill all the posts as soon as possible. The Eastern
Area Project management is adequately staffed and continues to function well.
Credit No. 573-SL           Second Education Project:   US$7.25 million
Credit of July 29, 1975; Effective Date:
September 8, 1975; Closing Date: September 30,
1980.
The main components of the project are: construction of facilities
and provision of furniture, equipment and materials for secondary schools, a
secondary teacher college, trade schools, and for institutions for educational
management and training; provision of technical assistance and fellowships for
further development of the sector. The project is being implemented satis-
factorily and is well managed. The first contract for construction and build-
ings at the secondary teacher training college, the trade school and for the
educational planning unit has been awarded and a second contract for seven
project schools will soon be awarded. Tenders have been within cost estimates
and the project should be completed within appraisal estimates. Implementation
is about three months behind appraisal estimates because of design delays.
Studies for the development of a training program for community development
workers are underway and plans are advanced for the educational planning, re-
search and management components.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                 5 months (November 1974 -
March 1975)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                 SLEC
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank/IDA               November 1974
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                             March 1975
(e)  Updating Missions:                             November 1975, April 1976,
April 1977.
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                    May 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 September 30, 1977
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
A mission is proposed in September/October to assist implementation
of the preparation of the Bumbuna part of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
(a) Government to ensure that the General Manager of SLEC would
be permitted to exercise his executive and management respon-
sibilities fully and effectively (paragraph 41);
(b) Government to ensure that the Ministry of Finance pays elec-
tricity bills promptly and fully for all departments and
Government-owned agencies. In the case of autonomous agencies
and Ministry of Finance will pay bills of those agencies for
which the Government does not allow the normal disconnection
procedures, if they have failed to pay within sixty days after
presentation of bills (paragraph 49);
(c) Government to ensure that financial responsibility for the Guma
hydroplant is not transferred to SLEC (paragraph 49);
(d) Government to permit SLEC to revise tariffs from time to time
in order to earn until the end of FY 1979 a rate of return of
at least 10 percent on presently valued assets; after asset re-
valuation has been completed SLEC and IDA would agree upon a
new rate of return which would not be less than 8 percent in
FY 1980 and thereafter (paragraph 46);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
(e) Government to compensate SLEC on an actual basis determined in
accordance with normal accounting procedures for any losses on
provincial operations which might occur, beginning in FY 1977
(paragraph 49);
(f)  Government and SLEC to ensure that, until a satisfactory staffing
and training program has been prepared, SLEC's staff will not be
increased (paragraph 43);
(g) SLEC to implement a staffing and training plan by September 30,
1978 (paragraph 43);
(h) SLEC to revise its depreciation policy by March 31, 1978, in a
manner satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 47);
(i) SLEC to revalue its assets fully by the end of FY 1979
(paragraph 47);
(j) SLEC not to incur any new long-term loans without prior consulta-
tion with IDA, unless the maximum total future debt service is
covered 1.5 times by SLEC's operating income before depreciation
(paragraph 47);
(k) Government to ensure that the current price of fuel to SLEC will
be maintained at least until December 31, 1977; thereafter, the
increase, if any, shall not exceed the increase in the world mar-
ket price of fuel (paragraph 48);
(1) SLEC to consult with IDA before declaring any dividend (para-
graph 50);
(m)  Signature of the BADEA loan (Condition of Effectiveness, para-
graph 40);
(n) SLEC to appoint the Sierra Leonean counterpart for the head of
the Generation Department of SLEC (Condition of Effectivness,
paragraph 42);
(o) SLEC to appoint financial consultants under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA (Condition of Effectiveness, paragraph 44);
(p) Government to pay to SLEC the actual financial losses incurred
by SLEC on its provincial operations for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1977 (Condition of Effectiveness, paragraph 49);
(q)  Government to appoint an executive engineer whose qualifications
and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA,
to supervise under the general direction of the Bumbuna Develop-
ment Committee, the planning and execution of the Bumbuna part
of the project (Condition of disbursement of Credit funds for the
Bumbuna part of the project, paragraph 34);



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
(r) Government to establish the Bumbuna Development Committee to
execute the preparatory steps necessary for the Bumbuna hydro
plant (Condition of disbursement of Credit funds for the Bumbuna
part of the project, paragraph 34); and
(s) Completion of the feasibility study for the Bumbuna project es-
tablishing its viability to the satisfaction of IDA (Condition
of disbursement of Credit funds for the design phase of the
Bumbuna part of the project, paragraph 34).



I BRD 12283R
4W Flt,                                                  llW           o A
A.~~~~~~~~~~
N t}                X                l t\ ^- tr.~~~~~~~~~egweo 
t ; 1 | - '           s '                            /  r- ' >- 
-v  ki   ,E- s lelP i Ii               B   bI                      i
m       P99t L                                       G                             . 
a_   he              j      t0>      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s  BLI   V~~~~~~~~ 
AU~~~4
*  SLEC  Dies61.eI vn.¢;  ill  o       t  -      t 
A  PrivoteIy Owned L .:l Si.- ...... . ............. - : >1I;r  .....  <  ~  ~  &  r  #'  _- 
* SLEC  Steom  zD ...........5 .. 1.6\ 
*  HydroeIectric F'I-,) i 1:.-. ........;.l? I  ..  .- -
, oods                               1-.
-'---.-  Roitrood                                              ___________________ _ JALA
8 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~~~~.                 7   1!j
il         '  I  . fi 1 1 ' '~~~A      e                        B- 
>~~... ,''', ,' '_



