                                             CONFORMED COPY




                                     CREDIT NUMBER 734 SL




Development Credit Agreement
             (Third Power Project)



                    between


                 SIERRA LEONE


                      and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




          Dated September 29, 1977
                                             CREDIT NO.   734-SL



                  DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT


     AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1977, between SIERRA LEONE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;


     (B)   part of the Project will be carried out by Sierra Leone
Electricity Corporation (hereinafter called SLEC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to SLEC part of the proceeds of the Credit in an amount
equivalent to seven million one hundred thousand dollars ($7,100,000)
as hereinafter provided;


     (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from Banque Arabe du
Developpement Economique en Afrique (hereinafter called BADEA) a
loan (hereinafter called the BADEA Loan) in an amount equivalent to
five million dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and BADEA; and


     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and SLEC;


     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 -2-


                               ARTICLE I


                    General Conditions; Definitions


     Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


     (a)     "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Asso-
ciation and SLEC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;


     (b)     "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SLEC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time; and
                               -3-

      (c)  "Ministry of Finance" means the Ministry of the Borrower
responsible for Finance.
                           ARTICLE II


                           The Credit


     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million two hundred thousand dollars ($8,200,000).


     Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


     Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit,   shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section
2.05 of the Project Agreement.


     Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
                               -5-

of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


     Section 2.06.   Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in   each year.


     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1987, and ending March 15,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 15, 1997 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


     Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III


                     Execution of the Project


    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part F of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and technical assistance
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


     (b)   For the purposes of Parts A through E of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend the equivalent of seven million one
hundred thousand dollars ($7,100,000) out of the proceeds of the
Credit to SLEC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SLEC under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association.


     (c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause SLEC to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SLEC to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performan.e.


     (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
                                -7-

of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


     Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:


     (a)   continue to provide SLEC with such annual subsidy as
shall compensate SLEC for the actual financial losses,   if   any,   on
its provincial operations calculated in accordance with appro-
priate accounting procedures acceptable to the Association, said
subsidy to be paid not later than four months after the end of
SLEC's fiscal year; and


     (b)   except as the Association shall otherwise agree, provide
SLEC, promptly as required, on terms acceptable to the Association,
with financing in foreign currency equivalent to approximately
seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000) to assist SLEC in the
execution of its investment program other than the Project during
the period FY 77-80.


     Section 3.03. In carrying out Part F of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall:


     (a)   until alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation shall have been made, establish a Bumbuna Development Com-
mittee, with powers and functions acceptable to the Association,
which shall include the Vice-President of Sierra Leone, as Chairman,
and representatives from Ministries of Energy and Power, Labour,
Works and Finance and from SLEC and the Chamber of Commerce, as
members, to give general directions for the proper implementation
of such Part of the Project;
                               - 8 -


     (b)   appoint an executive engineer,   with qualifications,   ex-
perience and terms and conditions of employment,    and with powers
and functions, satisfactory to the Association, to supervise,
under the general direction of the said Bumbuna Development Commit-
tee, the planning and execution of such Part of the Project; and


     (c)   select and employ consultants referred to in   Part F of
the Project, with qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment satisfactory to the Association, in accordance
with the guidelines set forth in the "Uses of Consultants of the
World Bank and its Borrowers", dated April 1974.
                                   -9-


                              ARTICLE IV


                            Other Covenants


     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall ensure that the General
Manager who is the Chief Executive Officer of SLEC may fully
and effectively exercise his executive and management respon-
sibilities.


     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall not require SLEC to increase
the number of SLEC's employees until an appropriate staffing and
training plan referred to in Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement
shall have been agreed upon between the Borrower, the Association
and SLEC.


     Section 4.03.   (a)   The Borrower shall cause its   Ministry of
Finance to pay directly, promptly and fully to SLEC all future
electricity bills for all of its Ministries, departments and
agencies.


     (b)    The Borrower shall permit SLEC to disconnect electri-
city to any autonomous agency if such agency shall have failed to
pay any electricity bill within sixty days after issue thereof.
Provided, however, that the Borrower may agree with SLEC on a list
of selected autonomous agencies for which the foregoing provision
shall not apply; in which case the Borrower shall assume the res-
ponsibility for,   and cause its    Ministry of Finance to pay directly,
promptly and fully to SLEC,     any electricity bill   any of such se-
lected autonomous agency shall have failed to pay within sixty days
after issue thereof.
                                  -   10 -



       Section 4.04. Not later than September 30, 1977, or such other
date as may be agreed upon by the Borrower, the Association and
SLEC, the Borrower shall take all steps necessary to convert all
of SLEC's Loan Stock "A" held by the Borrower to equity in SLEC.


       Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not require SLEC to assume the financial obliga-
tions of the Guma hydroplant.


       Section .4.06. Without limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall per-
mit SLEC to revise electricity tariffs from time to time so as to
achieve annual rates of return as specified in Section 4.03 of the
Project Agreement.


       Section 4.07. The Borrower shall:     (i) maintain unchanged, or
cause to be maintained unchanged, until December 31,      1977 or a
later date, the price SLEC pays for fuel; and (ii)      thereafter take
all necessary measures to ensure that fuel price increases to SLEC,
if   any,   shall not exceed increases in the world market price of
fuel. For the purposes of this Section,      the computation of such
increases shall be made on a basis to be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
                                        -   11   -




                                   ARTICLE V


                          Remedies of the Association


      Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph      (h) thereof:


      (a)   the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dis-
solution or disestablishment of SLEC or for the suspension of its
operations;


      (b)   a default shall have occurred in                the performance of any
obligation on the part of SLEC under the Project Agreement;


      (c)   a default shall have occurred in                the performance of any
obligation on the part of the Borrower or SLEC under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and


      (d)   (i)     subject to subparagraph (ii)             of this paragraph:


                    (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                          proceeds the BADEA Loan made to the Borrower
                          for the financing of the Project shall have
                          been suspended,            cancelled or terminated in
                          whole or in       part, pursuant to the terms of
                          the BADEA Loan Agreement,            or


                    (B)   the BADEA Loan shall have become due and pay-
                          able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
                                        -   12 -


              (ii)   subparagraph (i)       of this paragraph shall not
                     apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                     satisfaction of the Association that: (A)
                     such suspension, cancellation, termination
                     or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                     of the Borrower to perform any of its obli-
                     gations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
                     funds for the Project are available to the
                     Borrower or SLEC from other sources on terms
                     and conditions consistent with the obligations
                     of the Borrower under this Agreement and of
                     SLEC under the Project Agreement.


      Section 5.02.      For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions,    the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d)      thereof:


      (a)     any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (d)            of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and


      (b)     any event specified in        paragraphs (b)   and (c)   of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and SLEC.
                               -   13 -


                             ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


     (a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of SLEC have been duly authorized or ratified by all nec-
essary corporate and governmental action;


     (b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and SLEC, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action;


     (c)   the execution and delivery of the BADEA Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and BADEA, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;


     (d)   the local counterpart referred to in Section 2.04 of the
Project Agreement has been duly appointed;


     (e)   the financial consultants have been appointed in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement; and


     (f)   the Borrower has paid SLEC an annual subsidy to compensate
SLEC fully for actual financial losses incurred by SLEC on its pro-
vincial operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1977 in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
                                - 14 -


     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:


     (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SLEC, and is legally binding upon SLEC in accor-
dance with its   terms;


     (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and SLEC,    and is    legally binding
upon the Borrower and SLEC in   accordance with its     terms;


     (c)   that the BADEA Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower, and is legally binding upon the Bor-
rower in accordance with its terms.


     Section 6.03. The date December 28, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                  -   15 -

                            ARTICLE VII


             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses


      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
                                                            the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


     For the Borrower:

           The Financial Secretary
           The Ministry of Finance
           Freetown, Sierra Leone

          Cable address:

                MINFIN
                Freetown

     For the Association:

          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:

               INDEVAS
               Washington, D.C.
                                    -   16 -

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia,   United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.


                     SIERRA LEONE



                     By ./s/ A.B.       Kamara
                                                 Authorized Representative



                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                     By /s/   Roger Chaufournier
                                             Regional Vice President
                                                      Western Africa
                                 -   17 -

                              SCHEDULE 1


              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit


 1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
 financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:


                               Credit Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   For Parts of the
      Project to be car-
      ried out by SLEC:

      (a)   Equipment for            6,o8o,ooo      100% of foreign
            King Tom exten-                         expenditures
            sion

      (b)   Civil works for            550,000      60%
            King Tom exten-
            sion

      (c)   Data processing            200,000     100% of foreign
            equipment                              expenditures

      (d)   Engineering                270,000     50% of foreign
            services for                           expenditures
            King Tom exten-
            sion

(2)   Project preparation              900,000     100% of foreign
      for Bumbuna hydro-                           expenditures
      plant

(3)   Unallocated                      200,000


                     TOTAL           8,200,000
                                   - 18 -


2.      For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in    the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


3.      The disbursement percentages have been calculated in    compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent.with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement,     except that withdrawals,
in   an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $5,700,000,
may be made in respect of Category (1)      on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1975;
and (b) under Category (2): (A)    in respect of expenditures for Part
F (1) of the Project until the Bumbuna Development Committee referred
to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement shall have been established
and the executive engineer referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this
Agreement shall have been appointed; and (B) in respect of expendi-
tures for Parts F (2) and (3)     of the Project unless the technical,
                               -   19 -


 economic and financial viability of the Bumbuna hydroelectric
 development shall have been established to the satisfaction of the
 Association by the feasibility study under Part F (1) of the Proj-
 ect.


 5.  Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
 of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.


6.      If
        the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
                                                               or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
                                                             can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
                                  - 20   -



                               SCHEDULE 2


                       Description of the Project


     The Project consists of the following Parts:


Part A:   The installation of a 9.2 MW diesel-electric generator
          at the King Tom power station including auxiliary
          facilities.


Part B:   Measures to prevent electric generator outages at the
          King Tom power station by (1) hiring of a specialist
          to study the causes of such outages and the electric
          protection schemes of the generators and to design,
          and supervise procurement and installation of additional
          protective devices required, and (2) procurement and
          installation of such protective devices.


Part C:   The construction of the first stage of a 33 kV dis-
          tribution in the Western system.


Part D:   The installation of a 1,000 kW diesel-electric generator
          at Makeni,    one 500 kW diesel-electric generator at
          Lungi and eight 100 kW diesel-electric generators in    other
          provincial centers to be determined by agreement with
          the Association.
                               -   21   -



Part E:   (1)   The employment of consultants to: (1) procure, plan
                and supervise the construction or installation for
                Parts A, C and D above;     (2)   prepare a master plan
                for the further electrification of provincial areas;
                and (3) strengthen SLEC's financial management and
                accounting procedures.


          (2)   Purchase of data processing equipment for SLEC.


Part F:   The employment of consultants to: (1) complete the
          feasibility study of Bumbuna hydroplant; (2) design the
          first stage of such plant to the detail required for the
          preparation of tender documents for the main items
          of equipment and civil works; and (3)        to preDare such
          tender documents.




     The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1979.
