Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3>542-UV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELCOMMUNICATIONS
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
March 25, 1982
Western Africa Regional Office
Transportation, Water and Telecommunications Department
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.  |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1      =  CFAF 270
CFAF 1    =  US$0.0037
SDR 1     =  US$1.1478
US$1          SDR 0.871199
SDR 1         CFAF 309.91
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED 1N THE REPORT
AfDB               : African Development Bank.
Cabinets              Connecting points in a cable network which provide
flexibility between main and distribution cables.
CAMA               :  Central Automatic Message Accounting.  Equipment which allows
separate details of long distance calls to be recorded rather
than bulked charges on the local call meters.
CCCE                : Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French lending
agency).
Channel            : Frequency band of a carrier or multiplex system carrying
signais of one telephone telex or data circuit.
CIDA                : Canadian International Development Agency.
CIF                ,  Cost Insurarice and Freight.
CNDI               :  Caisse Nationale des Depots et d'Investissemerits.
ICB                :  International Competitive Bidding.
INTELSALT             International Consortium for Telecommunications via
satellites
ITU                    I International Telecommunication Union.
Microwave             Wide band radio system working at frequencies above 2 GHz.
Equipment used to provide a number of speech, telex or
Multiplex          : data circuits over one bearer.
MIP                : Management Improvement Program.
NTF                : Nigerian Trust Fund.
OPT                : Office des Postes et Telecommunications.
PANAFTEL              Panafrican Telecommunications Network (main transmission
routes between African countries.
PCAS               :  Postal Checking Account System.
Public Call        : Telephones installed at a convenient location for public use,
Offices             usualiy under control of an attendant (in the Post Office).
Satellite Earth   : Low capacity and low cost type of earth station standardized
Station Type B      by INTELSAT.
GDR                 : Special Drawing Right (IMF monetary unit).
STD                :  Subscriber Trunk Dialing (direct long distance dialing).
Subscriber Lines  : Main lines terminating on telephone exchanges.
or Connections
Telephones         : Telephones of all types, whether connected individually
on main lines or as extensions.
Telex/Gentex       : Teleprinter exchange used for switching private or
public (telegraph office) messages.
UAPT                : Union Africaine des Postes et Telecommunications (P&T
union restricted to French speaking countries).
UHF                : Ultra High Frequency.  Radio systems working in the range of
300-3,000 MHz.
VHF                : Very High Frequency.  Radio systems working in the range of
30-300 MHz.



FOR OlFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page Number
I.   THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR  ........               ................. .                1
Background and Organization  ..............              ...     ..............        1
Access to Service  ....................................... .                           2
Usage of Service   ........................................ .                          2
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities  ............ .. .                          2
Demand for Service  ...................................                                3
Sector Goals   ..........................................      .                       4
Sector Constraints  .........            ..................... .                       5
The Association's Role  ........             .................... .                    6
Il.   THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT  .......                ................... .                7
The Program          ......................................    .                       7
Project  Concept            ..........................................                 8
The Project          ...................................... .                          8
Project Cost            ................................... .                          9
Contingencies          ..................................... .                        il
Items and Sources of Financing  ......               ................ .              il
Procureinent .       ..............................................                   12
Project  Implementation  .........              ..........................            13
Disbursements            ............................................                 13
Performance Indicators  .........               ..........................            14
III.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..........................................                            14
Telecommunications and Economic Development  .............                    .       14
Tariff Policy          ......................        ......................           15
Least Cost Solution  ......................................                           16
Return on Investment  ..................                  ...................         16
Risks  ....................................................                           17
Environmental and Health Aspects  ..........               ..     .............       17
IV.   THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY  ...................................                            17
Organization  ............              .................................             17
Postal  Branch  ............................................                          18
Postal Checking Account System  (PCAS)  ....................                          19
Staff . ....................................................    20
This report is based on findings of a Bank appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. G. Buttex, Sr. Telecommunications Engineer, and H. Busz, Financial
Analyst, which visited Upper Volta in February 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duthes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page Number
Accounting  .        ..............................................                  20
External  Auditing Arrangements  ...........................                         21
Data Processing ................................                                     21
Insurance ............                                                               21
Managemerit Improvement  Program  (MIP)  .....................                       21
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ........................................                           22
Past Performance and Present  Financial  Position  ....                  ......      22
Accounts  Receivable  ......................................                         24
Valuation  of Assets  ......................................                         25
Financing  Plan  ...........................................                         25
Other  Investments  ........................................                         27
Future Finances  ..........................................                          27
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ............................                           28
LIST OF ANNEXES, CHARTS AND MAPS
1.  International  Telephone Statistics  ......................                          31
2.   Survey of Telephone  Book Listing  ........................                         32
3. Exchange Capacity and Subscriber Lines as of December 31,
1980 and Forecast  (1981-1987)  .........................                        33
4. Historical and Projected Growth of Expressed Demand and
Subscribers ........                                                             34
5.   Summary of Physical  Targets  at End  1980 and  1985  ....                ....      35
6.   Investment  Program 1982-1985  ............................                         36
7.   Construction Schedule  (chart WB 22659)  ..................                         37
8.   Disbursement  Schedule  ...................................                         38
9.   Performance Indicators  ..................................                          39
10.   Summary of Principal Tariffs  ............................                         40-41
11.   Rate of Return on Investments  ...........................                         42-43
12.   Existing Organization  Chart  .............................                         44
13.   Income Statements  (1974-1987)  ...........................                         45
14.   Funds Flow Statements  (1974-1987)  .......................                         46
15.   Balance Sheets  (1974-1987)  ..............................                         47
16.   Notes and Assumptions on Financial  Statements  ....                   .......     48-49
17.   Terms of Reference for Management  Improvement Program....                         50-56
18.   Documents  Available  in the Project  File  .....                  ............    57-58
Map: IBRO 15669



I. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background and Organization
1.01      Upper Volta, a Sahelian country, has an area of 274,000 km2 and a
population estimated at 5.7 million. The population growth rate is about
1.6% per year. The country's economy faces a number of constraints to
development. Among them are generally poor soils, lack of water, landlocked
position, uneven population distribution, low level of education and
technical know-how, and limited domestic markets. The economy is
overwhelmingly agriculture-oriented and extremely vuinerable to the vagaries
of the weather. Agriculture provides a livelihood to some 90% of the
population and is characterized by a low level of productivity. Exports
consist virtually exclusively of agricultural products, including livestock.
Modern manufacturing, though still young and confined largely to food
processing and textiles, has been expanding over the years'\and is beginning
to diversify. The development of modern industry has been stimulated by
government policy, but in spite of this, the industrial sector is still
dominated by small scale industries which provide the bulk of industrial
employment. There is no significant mineral production in the country. The
GNP per capita, close to US$180 in 1979, is among the lowest in the worid.
1.02      As is the case with other Sahelian countries, Upper Volta has
significant communications problems. Efficient telecommunications services
are particularly vital for stimulating the development of industrial,
business and agriculture-related activities, encouraging decentralization of
economic development outside of the main cities and reducing transport and
communications related costs for a wide spectrum of economic and social
sectors.
1.03      In 1969, following IDA recommendations, a new automonous entity,
the Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT), took over responsibility
for the domestic and regional telecommunications services in addition to the
postal/financial services. Since 1977, following the commissioning of an
earth satellite station, OPT also provides international overseas
telecommunications services which were previously provided by the French
company France Cable & Radio (FCR). At present, with the exception of
military, civil aviation and railways weich, as in many countries, have their
own telecommunications network, OPT provides all domestic, regional and
overseas international telephone, telegraph and telex services. The Ministry
of Information, Posts and Telecommunications is the licensing authority for
the telecommunications sector but control and policy direction is exercised
mainly by OPT's Board of Directors. There is no manufacture of
telecommunications equipment in the country.



- 2_
Access to Service
1.04      In 1980, the telephone density in Upper Volta averaged 0.16
telephones per 100 inhabitants, one of the lowest in the world. A comparison
with other developing countries shows the following: Kenya 1.05, Senegal
0.79, Tunisia 2.65, India 0.38, Pakistan 0.40 and Thailand 0.91. The
telephone density in the two main cities of Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso
averaged 1.97. Annex 1 sets out international telephone statistics. About
80% of the main telephone lines are installed in the capital city Ouagadougou
(59%), and Bobo-Dioulasso, the second main economic center (21%). Ninety one
percent of the main telephone lines are connected to automatic exchanges
located in the two above-mentioned cities and in four major provincial
towns.  Subscriber long distance dialing has been introduced in the domestic
network and with France. In the six other provincial towns where the
population exceeds 10,000 inhabitants each, telephone service is provided
through small manual switchboards linked to the national network by overhead
lines and rural carrier equipment. Public telephones are available at the
post office in each of the few localities provided with telephone service.
Telegraph service is also available to the public in each post office which
transmits the messages directly by teleprinter through the domestic and
international gentex system, or by telephone to the main telegraph center in
Ouagadougou. In some remote locations without telephone service,
transmission is by morse telegraphy through HF radio.
1.05      Mhen new telephone lines become available, priority allocation is
given to government services, senior officials, embassies, medical doctors
and the press. Any remaining lines are allocated to registered waiters on a
first come first served basis with no distinction between business or
residential applicants.
Usage of Service
1.06      Comprehensive data on the characteristics of telephone users, and
the purposes for which their telephones are used, are not available. A
recent survey of telephone directory listings (see Annex 2) for three
provincial towns with local and long distance subscriber dialing and for six
smaller towns with small manual exchanges shows, however, that a very high
proportion of main telephone lines are related to government administration
and business usage. In the three larger towns which were surveyed, 37% of
the lines relate to central and local government service activities while 43%
are clearly associated with business endeavors; less than 20% of the
telephones are listed only under the names of individual subscribers. In the
six smaller locations, public services activities represent 67% of the total
copnected lines, and businesses 20%. The remaining 13% of the lines in the
smaller towns are listed under individual names which could also include some
shops or businesses.
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities
1.07      Since the commissioning of the new transmission and switching
facilities under the second IDA project, the quality of the local, domestic



-3-
long distance and overseas telephone service in Upper Volta is generally
above the rather poor quality of service available in most other Western
African countries. This applies, primarily, to those subscribers who have
access to the automatic telephone and telex services.
1.08      Upper Volta has presently eight local automatic telephone exchanges
with a total installed capacity of 7,800 lines, 5,549 connected main
telephone subscriber lines, and 210 telex subscribers. Exchange capacity and
subscriber lines as of December 31, 1980 and forecast (1982-1987) are given
in Annex 3.  The outside plants in urban areas are saturated, fault prone,
and repairs are often slow. The proposed third telecommunications project is
aimed partly at improving the reliability and capacity of these local
networks which are now the weakest link of the currently installed Voltaic
telecommunications system (para. 2.04).
1.09      The main domestic and regional long distance transmission facility
consists of a backbone microwave link from the south western border with
Ivory Coast to the eastern border with Niger. This link, which is part of
the PANAFTEL telecommunications network, carries both the main domestic long
distance traffic and the regional/international traffic with the neighboring
countries of Ivory Coast, Niger, Mali and Togo. The long distance
transmission routes which serve the rural areas consist of overhead lines
with copperweld wires supplemented with radio carrier equipment. Most of
these long distance overhead lines have been constructed or rehabilitated
under previous development programs and are in acceptable condition (see Map
IBRD 15669). OPT's subscribers have access to overseas telephone, telegraph
and telex services through a Type B satellite earth station located near
Ouagadougou.
Demand for Service
1.10      Given the extremely low telephone density in Upper Volta, the
embryonic nature of the network and the lack of penetration into many regions
of the country, it is difficult to accurately forecast the future demand for
telecommunications services. Historical expressed demand and traffic levels
reflect, in many cases, a supply constraint rather than the real existing or
potential demand. Annex 4 shows historical and projected growth of expressed
demand and connected subscriber lînes in operation. The figures of expressed
demand and of historical growth of connected subscriber lines tend to
underestimate the speed with which the demand for telephone service will grow
as new areas gain access to reliable telecommunications facilities, the
quality of service improves and subscriber trunk dialing is introduced in
many of the population centers of the country.
1.11      During the five year implementation period of the second project
(1974-1979), the number of telephone subscriber lines in operation in Upper
Volta increased at an average annual rate of 18% and telex subscriber lines
increased by 24% per year. Civen the present supply constraints due to the
saturation of the local networks, the unsatisfied expressed demand
(registered only in the main cities) represents 20% of the total recorded



- 4 -
demand at the end of 1980 and as shown below is expected to keep increasing
until the commissioning of the new facilities under the proposed third
project:
Subscriber      Unsatisfied Demand             Total
Year      Lines          in Major Centers         Recorded Demand*
1979       5,368               1,292                   6,660
1980       6,162               1,600                   7,662
1981       6,401              2,410                    8,811
1982       6,754               3,378                  10,132
1983       7,031              4,621                   11,652
1984       9,571               3,829                  13,400
1985      12,085              3,315                   15,400
1986      13,426               4,274                  17,700
*/ Total recorded or expressed demand is the sum of subscriber
lines in operation plus registered unsatisfied demand.
Past increases of telecommunications tariffs in Upper Volta had little effect
on the demand for -new connections. Thus, the assumption of a 15% annual
growth of demand during project implementation is conservative and presents
little danger of overprovisioning of the facilities.
Sector Goals
1.12      The sector objectives during the initial stages of development in
Upper Volta have been to: (a) establish reliable telecommunications
facilities in and between towns with the most important economic activity and
largest populations; (b) establish an institutional framework for sector
development; and (c) gradually develop a sound financial basis for future
operations and investments. A good beginning toward the first objective of
opening up Upper Volta to telecommunications has been made with IDA's
assistance (see para. 1.15), under the previous development programs.
Current strategy for future development in the sector still reflects the same
objectives but, in addition, it aims at establishing reliable
telecommuriications services in six additional provincial towns located in the
regions where many agricultural projects are being implemented, as well as
providing the necessary further extensions of local and long distance
services in and between the two main cities and four provincial towns where
these services have been introduced by the previous projects. Regarding the
second objective of institution building, the framework of a satisfactory
autonomous entity has been established but the organization needs to be
further refined (para. 4.04). Management, operations, maintenance,
accounting, management information systems and training, need also to be



-5-
improved in order to maintain and operate adequately the expanding network.
The development of a sound financial basis for future development remains a
major objective of the sector.
1.13      OPT's 1982-1986 investment program will provide for increase of the
number of telephones in operation in Upper Volta from 11,000 telephones in
1980 to about 22,000 telephones by the end of 1986 (or some 0.39 telephones
per 100 inhabitants, assuming a population growth rate of 1.6 percent p.a, as
experienced between 1970-78. Over the period 1982-1986, the number of
connected subscriber lines is expected to increase at 16% per annum. By
1986, 76% of the expected recorded demand for subscriber lines should be
met. Selected parameters reflecting estimated changes in access to service
are indicated below:
1980        1986         %
End of Year                 (Actual)   (Forecast)   Change
Subscriber lines in Service
* Upper Volta                            6,162        13,426      118
* Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso         4,880       11,100       127
* Rest of Upper Volta                    1,282         2,326       81
Telephones per 100 Population
Upper Volta                            0.20          0.39       95
Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso         1.97          3.94      100
* Rest of Upper Volta                     0.02         0.03        50
Satisfied Demand * (%)
Upper Volta                             80            76       - 5
Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso          80            76       - 5
* Rest of Upper Volta                     n.a           n.a       n.a
* Defined as the ratio of subscriber lines in service to expressed
demand. Expressed demand is the sum of subsriber lines in service
plus registered unmet demand.
Sector Constraints
1.14      The primary constraint in the sector is a shortage of middle level
administrators, engineers and intermediate and lower level skilled technical
manpower. While the technical competence of the staff employed by OPT,
including the assistant engineers, is acceptable, the situation with regard
to technicians and workmen needs improvement. In recent years, excessive
political pressure on OPT's management disrupted a competent and dedicated
management team and resulted in overstaffing (mainly,unskilled manpower), and
in a lack of financial discipline. Staff morale and efficiency sunk to very



-6-
low levels. The new Government is well aware of these problems and is
determined to reverse the trend. A substantial technical assistance
component included in the proposed third project, as well as
on-the-job training during project execution, are expected to improve the
situation (para. 4.18).
The Association's Role
1.15       The telecommunications sector in Upper Volta has received two IDA
credits. Credit 141-UV of US$ 0.8 million (1969) helped finance a project
with a total cost of US$1.4 million equivalent.  The first project was the
fruit of efforts dating back to 1966 when the Association encouraged and
assisted in the creation of an autonomous commercially oriented entity. The
physical content of the project involved only the rehabilitation of outside
plants in the two main cities and the construction of long distance overhead
lines in the country interior. The project was completed satisfactorily by
the end of 1974. The June 1976 audit report prepared by OED pointed out
that, with IDA support, OPT became a efficient organization in comparison
with neighboring countries, established a satisfactory accounting system and
managed to recruit and train competent executives, thereby reducing its
dependence on expatriate services. The second credit (431-UV) of US$4.5
million (1973) helped finance a project which involved essentially the supply
and installation of automatic telephone exchanges in the two main cities and
in four provincial towns and the expansion of associated transmission routes
and local networks. It was executed concurrently with the PANAFTEL
transmission routes to Ivory Coast and Togo, the satellite earth station and
telex exchange projects financed by bilateral sources. The second project
was implemented on schedule and successfully completed by the end of 1979. A
project completion report tPCR) was distributed in September 1981; a Project
Performance Audit Report is under preparation. The PCR concluded that, on
balance, the project has been successful, the number of subscriber lines
connected to the system and the increases of traffic and operating revenues
have largely exceeded originally agreed targets, and a reasonably
satisfactory level of service was achieved in these areas where new
telecommunications facilities were made available. However, attempts made
during the second phase of the project to keep the sector organization in
line with the network expansion were less successful, and management problems
which adversely affected the overall institutional performance began to
develop in 1977-78, partly due to outside political pressures (para. 1.14).
1.16       The Association's role in the sector in Upper Volta focuses on
providing a base for further institutional improvements on a cooperative
basis and on providing stable and assured long-term funding for the
development of the telecommunications network. IDA also endeavors to ensure
that independent advice is available regarding the optimal use of scarce
resources and that proposed investments in the sector match and directly
support the development objectives of the country.
1.17       During implementation of the third project, IDA will assist OPT to:
(a) set priorities;  (b) select least cost technical and economic solutions;
(c) make balanced investments; (d) introduce adequate management systems and



-7-
procedures in all areas (para. 4.18); (e) train managers and staff; and (f)
reduce the relative size of its staff (para. 4.13).
II. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
2.01      OPT's telecommunications investment program for the period
1982-1986 aims at: (i) meeting by the end of 1986 at least 75% of the
rapidly growing expressed demand in Ouagadougou, Bobo Dioulasso and other
main cities; and (ii) expanding reliable telecommunications services in the
South-Western, Western and Northern provinces. The program comprises the
following main items:
(a) the proposed project (para. 2.04 and 2.05);
(b) a reduced Liptako-Gourma telecommunications project (para
2.02)
(c) construction of rural overhead lines and provision of
manual switchboards (Dutch rural projects);
(d) miscellaneous investments, including extension of the
automatic telephone exchanges of Banfora, Quahigouya and
Koudougou; extension of the Ouagadougou telex exchange;
provision of teleprinters, telephone instruments and
private branch exchanges (PBX); and
(e) pre-investments for the investment program from 1987
onwards (possible fourth telecommunications project).
2.02      The Liptako-Gourma telecommunications project is a multinational
scheme covering the semi-arid Sahelian region of Niger, Mali and Upper
Volta. Appraised in 1978 by the African Development Bank (AfDB), this
project was first estimated to cost about US$26.8 million, the Upper Volta
share of the total project cost being 48% or about US$12.9 million. However,
following project modifications and additions as requested by member states
and further engineering studies and price increases, the project cost was
expected to increase by about 34% (US$35.9 million, and US$17.2 for Upper
Volta). IDA questioned the justification of some components of the
Liptako-Gourma telecommunications project, the cost of the investment in
relation to expected demand and the service provided, the internal rate of
return on the investment, provisioning for the transmission of television
programs, and the negative impact of this investment on the financial
performance of the Post and Telecommunications entities of the three
countries. An IDA mission in July 1981 requested the Government to
reconsider the proposed investments, particularly some of the project
components which were obviously oversized and premature. The Government of
Upper Volta has now formally agreed to significantly reduce (by 40 percent)
its proposed Liptako-Gourma telecommunications program including the



- 8 -
elimination of television transmission facilities to ehich Mali has also
agreed. Consequently, IDA is now in general agreement with Upper Volta's
overall telecommunications investment program.  Final composition of the
regional Liptako-Gourma telecommunications project, which is still in
procurement stage, wili only be decided after bid opening now expected for
June 1982, but will have to be reduced due to expected large cost overruns
(about 50 percent). The Association would continue to advise the respective
Governments to assure that the final Liptako-Gourma telecommunications
project investments are coordinated and are technically and economically
sound.
2.03      Contracts for supply and installation of equipment and material for
the extension of telephone and telex exchanges have been placed and are
scheduled to be implemented by December 1983. Other small investments will
be contracted during the four years investment period. Annex 5 sets out a
summary of physical targets at the end of 1980 and 1986. Annex 3 sets out
the exchange capacity and subscriber lines at the end of 1980 through the end
of 1987. Map IBRD 15669 sets out the proposed telecommunications network.
2.04      The 1982-1986 OPT investment program is estimated to cost about
CFAF 20.3 billion (US$75.2 million equivalent), including a foreign exchange
component of about CFAF 15.1 billion (US$56.0 million). The total program
cost also includes about CFAF 5.2 billion (US$19.4 million) of preinvestments
for the investment program from 1987 onwards. Annual program costs from 1982
to 1986 are set out in Annex 6.
Project Concept
2.05      The proposed Third Telecommunications Project is aimed at providing
the necessary further extensions of existing local and long distance services
and reliable telecommunications services in the South Western and Western
provinces where major rural development and agricultural projects are being
undertaken. Although the second project's objectives were broadly achieved
(paras. 1.07, 1.08 and 1.09), partly because of lack of skilled technicians
OPT has not been able to extend the urban cable networks as needed and thus
connect the new waiting subscribers to the existing switching capacity. The
third project has been conceived partly to correct this unbalance by
including a substantial local network component and also by providing
technical assistance for planning, design, installation of local network
extensions, organization of proper maintenance and subscriber repair service
and monitoring of the repairmen in the field. This component includes
on-the-job training for Voltaic technicians. Parallel with the physical
expansion of the telecommunications network, the project includes a
substantial Management Improvement Program (para. 4.18) to assist OPT in
ilmproving its management, information system, accounting and data processing.
The Project
2.06      The project was prepared by OPT in close cooperation with
consultants financed under a PPF of US$495,000 (approved March 8, 1979). The
size and composition of the project are based on reasonable market



- 9 -
assumptions, unsatisfied demand, and the urgent need for expansion into
provincial and rural areas (paras. 1.04 and 3.03)
2.07      The proposed project consists of the following items:
(a) about 3,600 lines of local automatic telephone exchange
equipment in Ouagadougou and about 4,000 lines in Bobo
Dioulasso;
(b) provision of six containerized telephone exchanges
totaling about 1,200 lines to be installed in the towns
of Dedougou, Diebougou, Gaoua, Koupela, Tenkodogo and
Tougan;
(c) extension of the national automatic transit exchange in
Ouagadougou and installation of central automatic message
accounting (CAMA) equipment for both long distance and
international traffic;
(d) construction of ducts and installation of subscriber
cables and distribution cabinets in the urban local
networks of Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso, and
construction of local networks in the six abovementioned
provincial towns;
(e) construction of the following transmission routes:
(i) Ouagadougou-Dedougou long distance cable;
(ii) Dedougou-Bobo Dioulasso; and
(iii) Bobo Dioulasso-Diebougou-Gaoua (120 channel
microwave links).
(f) engineering consultants to assist OPT in bid
evaluation,supervision of civil works construction and
microwave installation, supervision of the installation
of urban cable networks (including on-the-job training of
Voltaic technicians), preparation and implementation of
maintenance procedures and organization of maintenance
and repair services; and
(g) management improvement program including assistance to
and training for OPT's accounting department, data
processing services and postal branch, as well as expert
review of staffing requirements and tariffs, and
fellowships for training abroad (para. 4.18).
Project Cost
2.08      The total cost of the project, including the PPF advance of US$0.5
million, is estimated at about CFAF 10.8 billion (US$40.6 million equivalent)
with a foreign exchange component of about CFAF 7.6 billion (US$28.6
million). Project costs are summarized below:



- 10 -
----CFAF Million-----   ----US$ Million----
Item                    Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total
1.  PPF                                 -      185      185       -    0.5      0.5
2.  Switching Equipment                 82   2,085   2,167       0.3   7.7      8.0
3.  Local Networks                   2,073   1,794   3,867       7.7   6.6    14.3
4.  Transmission                       187   1,506   1,693       0.7   5.6      6.3
5.  Buildings                           40     -         40      0.1    -       0.1
6.  Tools and Vehicles                   -      100     100      -     0.4      0.4
7.  Engineering                          -     240      240      -     0.9      0.9
8.  Technical Assistance                -      250      250      -     0.9      0.9
9.  Contingencies                      856   1,630   2,486       3.2   6.0      9.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST            3,238   7,605  10,843    12.0  28.6    40.6
2.09       The foreign exchange costs of project components proposed for IDA
financing are based on prices for similar equipment obtained in 1980 through
international competitive bidding and adjusted for inflation during 1981.
The project's local costs, covering mainly civil works, are based on 1980
prices also adjusted for inflation, as experienced in Western Africa for
similar works procured through local competitive bidding. Part of the cost
of switching equipment and local networks (in six provincial towns), is
proposed for CCCE financing (para 2.12). Costs are based on the actual
prices of equipment and plant that CCCE agreed to finance after obtaining
some reduction in quantities and prices. The average man/month consultancy
cost is about US$12,000 for the engineering consultants in charge of the
project components proposed for IDA financing. The estimated or actual costs
of the different project items are above the worldwide average of ICB
procured items. This is so because: (a) extensions of existing switching
equipment must be obtained from the original supplier; (b) other new
switching and transmission equipment financed by bilateral aid agencies
(para. 2.11) is subject to limited competitive bidding; and (c) experience
with other telecommunications projects financed by the Bank/IDA in the
Western Africa region indicates that the estimated cost of project items
proposed for IDA financing reflects not only the small size of the contracts



- 11 -
(which does not attract large international competition), but also the fact
that equipment installation takes place in a country where technical skill is
scarce and needs to be imported at high cost. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that OPT is exempt from custom duties and import taxes
on all imported goods and services required for the project.
Contingencies
2.10       Price contingencies for goods and services financed by IDA and
procured through ICB amount to 24 percent of the total base cost of the
foreign exchange component. They result from the year to year estimated
foreign cost increases for equipment and material of 8.5 percent in 1982, and
7.5 percent annually from 1983 through 1986. Price contingencies for civil
works and other local expenditures amount to 37 percent of total base cost.
They result from the year-by-year estimated local cost increases of 12
percent per annum from 1982 through 1986. This corresponds to the average
annual inflation rate experienced in Upper Volta between 1972 and 1982.
Price contingencies for the project components financed by CCCE amount to 36
percent of total base cost of material, equipment and installation. They
take into account applications of the price escalation formula included in
the contracts and of the estimated cost increases in the country of origin.
Since project preparation is already well-advanced and detailed design of the
major components is completed, no physical contingencies have been included
in the cost est imates.
Items and Sources of Financing
2.11       The project would be cofinanced by the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and Dutch bilateral aid. Taking into account
the different rules applied for procurement of goods and services by each
bilateral aid agency and IDA (para. 2.14), it has been agreed that each
lending agency would finance their project components separately (parallel
financing).  The project financing plan (including the PPF advance) is as
follows (in US$ million):
Local      Foreign      Total
IDA             3.0          14.0        17.0
CCCE             1.1         11.9        13.0
Dutch Aid       0.5           2.7         3.2
OPT             7.4            -          7.4
Total        12.0         28.6         40.6
2.12       CCCE has already approved a loan of FF. 70.0 million (US$13.0
million) at 5% for 15 years, including 5 year grace period, which would cover
foreign and local costs of switching equipment and local networks in six
provincial towns. Foreign costs for the supply and installation of a long
distance cable and multiplex equipment for the Koudougou-Dedougou
transmission route which are based on actual contract price are financed by a
Dutch bilateral aid grant of Dutch florins 8.6 million (US$3.2 million).



- 12 -
2.13       Including the PPF advance of US$0.5 million, the items proposed for
IDA financing in US$ million are as follows:
*  PPF                                                0.5
*  Cables and local networks material                 5.6
*  Civil works construction                           2.2
*  Microwave links and multiplex equipment            3.1
*  Tools, vehicles                                    0.4
* Consultants (Engineering, para. 2.07 and
MIP, para. 4.18)                   1.8
*  Unallocated                                        3.4
17.0
IDA's proposed credit of SDR 14.9 million (US$17.0 million) would finance
100% of foreign cost for equipment, material and consulting services, and 60%
of local cost for civil works for the first two construction phases of the
Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso networks.
Procurement
2.14      The following procurement procedures, similar to those
satisfactorily used for preceding projects, would apply:
Project Element                            Procurement Procedure
(1)   Cables and outside plant material   (i)+(ii)  International competitive
for Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.          bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for procurement
(ICB).
(il)  Microwave links and multiplex
equipment.
(iii)  Civil Works.                          (iii)  International competitive
bidding with a 7.5% margin of pre-
ference for local contractors.
(iv)  Vehicles and tools.                    (iv)  ICB or local competitive bid-
ding if contract estimated to cost
less than US$40,000 equivalent.
(v)  Switching equipment and                 (v)  ICB limited to Franc Zone and
local networks in six provincial             for switching extensions,
(Element financed by CCCE)                   negotiated contracts with existing
suppliers.
(vi)  Long distance cable (Element           (vi)  Dutch suppliers.
financed by a Dutch grant).
(vii)  Consultants                           (vii)  World Bank Guidelines for
selection of consultants.



- 13 -
Project Implementation
2.15       OPT selected engineering consultants for the planning and design of
the local network extension and transmission routes to be included in the
proposed third projeCt. The consulting services financed by the PPF as well
as the preparation of bid documents for the project components proposed for
IDA financing are completed. The bids covering all these goods have been
invited in March 1982 and OPT's award recommendations are expected by August
1982. OPT intends to employ the same consultants for: (a) bid evaluation,
procurement, supervision of microwave links, multiplex and switching
equipment installation; (b) local network design, supervision of civil fork
construction and cable installation; and (c) quality and performance testing
in the factory, and final inspection and testing on site. The suppliers
would install the main equipment (telephone exchanges, extension of switching
equipment in existing exchanges, microwave links and multiplex equipment)
under the supervision of the consultants. Most of civil works for the local
networks are expected to be carried out by local contractors under the
supervision of the consultants. Laying and jointing of primary cables and
secondary distribution cables and installation of distribution cabinets,
poles, aerial cables and t-erminal cabinets would be carried out by OPT staff
with the consultants's assistance and supervision. The consulting services
include a substantial element of vocational training and on-the-job training
of Voltaic technicians and transfer of know-how for the local contractors in
charge of the civil works (telephone ducts and manholes). OPT's management,
together with the consultant's assistance, is capable of carrying out this
project satisfactorily. Taking into account OPT's performance in
implementing the previous projects, the schedule proposed by OPT as set out
in Annex 7 (Chart WB 22659) is realistic. Project completion is scheduled
for September 30, 1986.
Disbursements
2.16       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 14.9 million (US$17.0 million) would
be disbursed as follows:
Anount               % financed by IDA
(SDR '000)
1. Civil Works                 1,920           60%
2. Materials and Equipment  1,580              100% of foreign expenditures
3. Tools, Vehicles               350           100% of foreign expenditures,
and 75% of local expenditures
4. Consultants Services        1,570           100% of foreign expenditures
and fellowships
5. Refinancing of PPF            440           amount disbursed and out-
standing
6. Unallocated                 3,040



- 14 -
Disbursements would be fully documented.  The estimated disbursement schedule
set out in Annex 8 follows the Bankwide average historical disbursement
schedule for telecommunications projects. However, it takes into account
that, due to the use of the project preparation facility, project execution
and thus disbursements related to the financing of equipment and material are
expected to be two years advanced compared with the historical figures. All
disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1987.
Performance Indicators
2.17      A set of selected indicators to help OPT's management and IDA
monitor project implementation and operational and financial performance are
shown in Annex 9. These indicators and their expected annual variations
represent agreed construction objectives and operational and financial
targets; they will be compared with actual figures during the project period
and will be included in OPT's progress reports to IDA. These performance
indicators have been agreed upon during negotations.
III. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
3.01      The economic analyis relates to OPT's 1982-86 investment program of
which the proposed project is an integral part.
Telecommunications and Economie Development
3.02      The 1982-86 telecommunications investment program (para. 2.01)
provides for the expansion of the most productive existing facilities
required for the main economic centers to meet an increasing demand from
industry, business and administration, and for the construction of new
facilities required to expand the network into rural areas and to improve its
reliability and efficiency. Although the program will not eliminate all
unmet demand for subscriber connections (para. 1.11), it will significantly
improve the present situation.
3.03      The investment program is specifically designed to support
Covernment's current economic development program. Government objectives
include balanced regional development and involvement of the entire
population in the development process. In Upper Volta, with numerous and
remote rural population centers, large distances between population centers
and poor transport facilities, access to communications is a basic
prerequisite for the achievement of balanced development. There is also an
additional need to extend satisfactory basic telecommunications services to
the smaller and more isolated government and administrative centers and
outposts. Given the large sparsely populated areas and the existing
transport constraints, telecommunications tends to be the least cost means



- 15 -
for maintaining even rudimentary nationwide communications.  When the means
for rapid and efficient transmission of information are inadequate, the most
remote areas of the country, generally the poorest, suffer most.
3.04       The lack of access to adequate telecommunications facilities in
most of the rural areas of Upper Volta has hampered management and
coordination of activity in all sectors. Establishment of a reliable
telecommunications system is vital to stimulating commerce, agriculture and
small'scale industry outside of the major metropolitan areas, encouraging
decentralization, and reducing transport and communications-related costs for
all economic and social sectors (see Annex 2 for an indication of the
dominance of business and administrative uses of the telephones in small
rural towns). The provision of services related to agricultural extension
work, health, welfare and education in rural areas often involves the use of
staff with limited expertise who need direction and advice that could be
obtained over the telephone or telex from more qualified personnel in the
principal centers. The major problems of coordination, food transport and
distribution encountered during the drought relief operations in the early
seventies could have been reduced with the aid of adequate telecommunications
facilities.   Communications constraints also impede the operation and
maintenance of an efficient transporation system that could reduce the growth
in fuel consumption. Trucks often return empty even though there is cargo
waiting somewhere; breakdowns are not quickly reported and there are delays
in ordering and receiving spare parts and tools. Agricultural development
efforts suffer because of slow and unreliable communications. Supplies are
not ordered or provided on a timely basis, and information on prices and
transport is either untimely or unavailable. In the absence of adequate
telecommunications, government officials and businessmen must frequently make
time and fuel consuming trips to discuss matters which could have been
discussed and settled over the telephone.
3.05       Increased domestic and international telex facilities are
considered essential to business transactions where a written record is
required. Although the major part of demand will continue to be
in Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso, there are already known requirements for
business and industry in other cities, such as Koudougou.  In Upper Volta,
telex service is still practicable on a least cost basis from one single
telex exchange located in Ouagadougou and is very profitable in operation.
Tariff Policy
3.06       Partly as a result of the existing large unsatisfied demand (para.
1.11), pricing policy is used as a means by which the benefits of existing
and new sector investments are focused on priority users who contribute to
economic development. Upper Volta's telecommunications tariffs are presently
among the highest in the world; a metered local call costs about US$0.19 and
average annual revenue per DEL was a very high US$1,187 equivalent in 1980.
Tariffs have to be approved by the Government following recommendations of
OPT's Board of Directors; changes are initiated and proposed to the Board by
OPT's management. Upper Volta generally follows the tariff policies
recommended by the Union Africaine des Postes et Telecommunications (UAPT)



-16-
and the Conference administrative des Postes et Telecommunications des Etats
de l'Afrique Occidentale (CAPTEAO). Tariffs were last increased in May 1977
by an average of 25%. A summary of the principal telecommunications tariffs
in effect as of December 31, 1981 is given in Annex 10.
3.07      In view of the rapid development of Upper Volta's
telecommunications network and the considerable accompanying investment
expenditures, a review of the teLecommunications tariff structure is needed.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that OPT will carry out a
tariff study, to be completed no later than December 31, 1982, and that it
will appoint to this end consultants under terms of reference agreed with
IDA (Annex 17). About six man-months of consulting services have been
included under the technical assistance component of the proposed project for
this purpose (para. 4.18). Following the tariff study and a review of its
recommendations, OPT intends to introduce a revised tariff structure and
tariff levels that would enable it to achieve the covenanted rates of return
on average net fixed assets in operation as of January 1, 1983 (para 5.14).
For purposes of the financial projections used in this report, a general
tariff increase of at least 15 percent has been assumed (para. 5.13).
Least Cost Solution
3.08      The least cost solution for providing telecommunications services
depends on: (a) having made the correct technical and economic decisions
initially when the network was planned; and (b) following the optimum path
in the design, dimensioning and timing of the installations which comprise
continuing system expansion. The existing telecommunications domestic
network incorporates some investments that were purchased at unfavourable
prices or not designed with the most appropriate dimensioning or technology
(para. 5.07).  These investments, while costly in a financial sense, do not
adversely affect the overall technical operation of the network, nor do they
prevent selection of appropriate least cost solutions for the proposed
project.
3.09      Planning,, design, dimensioning and timing of the local and long
distance telephone and telex network expansion included in the project, which
are based on studies carried out by engineering consultants, represent the
least cost technical means for providing and improving the services.
Return on Investment
3.10      The internal financial rate of return on the 1982-1986 investment
program, defined as the discount rate which equalizes the stream of expected
revenues attributable to the program with the stream of capital and operating
costs (at constant 1982 price levels), is 25% (Annex 11). Using a conversion
factor of 0.83 for local currency, and assuming that new subscribers are
willing to pay the same tariffs in real terms as existing subscribers, the
estimated economic rate of return of the program is 30%.



- 17 -
3.11      The foregoing estimate of benefits underestimates total program
benefits, since it does not include the consumer surplus which callers or
subscribers receive, and does not fully account for external benefits
associated with transport substitution, business opportunity, administrative
efficiency, etc.
Risks
3.12      There are no unusual risks associated with the program.  A possible
risk may arise out of delayed physical implementation due to unforeseen
circumstances, such as delays in civil works for local networks and receipt
of material or equipment, or installation of equipment and plant. However,
the previous project was implemented roughly according to schedule. With the
assistance of engineering consultants (para. 2.16) appointed by OPT,
implementation of the proposed project is expected without major
delays. Moreover, in telecommunications projects which comprise a large
number of independent works, a delay in the implementation of a few works
does not generally prevent the use of other newly created assets. When such
delays do occur, the costs and revenues are delayed by roughly the same
degree so that the overall impact on the return on investment is not
significant. A sensitivity analysis on the internal financial rate of return
(Annex 11) indicates that a 10% increase in capital expenditures and
operating expenses and a 10% decrease in operating revenues would result in a
rate of return of 20%.
Environmental and Health Aspects
3.13      No adverse environmental or health effects are expected from the
project. Telecommunications works have very little negative impact on the
environment and the plant consumes little energy. On the other hand, through
its use as an alternative to communications involving physical movements,
telecommunications has the potential to conserve energy. Better
telecommunications should also result in better utilization of transport for
movement of food, medicine and patients in emergency situations.
IV. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
Organization
4.01      The proposed beneficiary and implementing agency, OPT, is a
government owned entity. Originally established as a government department
when the country became independent, it became an autonomous government
entity (Office) in 1969. The statute creating OPT gives it an industrial and
commercial character and endows it with legal and financial autonomy. OPT is
substantially autonomous in its day-to-day operations. Policy direction is
provided by its Board of Directors (para. 1.03).
4.02      OPT's Board of Directors is appointed by the Government and
consists of 13 members under the chairmanship of the Minister of Posts and



- 18 -
Telecommunications. The Board members represent varlous ministries, the
National Assembly, the Economic Council, the Chamber of Commerce and OPT's
staff.
4.03       OPT's chief executive is the Directeur General %ho is assisted by a
Deputy (Directeur General Adjoint). Both are appointed by the Government.
OPT's internal organization (Annex 12) is based on eight headquarters
departments dealing with Telecommunications, Postal and Financial Services,
Administration and Personnel, Finance and General Accounting, Buildings and
Transport, Studies and Planning, the National Posts and Telecommunications
School and the National Savings Bank (Caisse Nationale d'Epargne). Seven of
these departments are headed by a Director appointed by the Minister of Posts
and Telecommunications. The head of the Finance and Accounting department
(Agent Comptable) is appointed by both the Minister of Posts and
Telecommunications and the Minister of Finance. Central headquarters is
responsible for directing OPT's operations, managing OPT's financial and
staff resources and dealing with planning development programs, procurement
and project execution. Operations are decentralized on a territorial basis
through five Regional Directorates of Posts and Telecommunications (Annex
12). Under the present organizational setup, eight department directors and
five regional directors directly report to the Directeur General or, in his
absence, to the Deputy Directeur General.
4.04       OPT's present organization, as described above, needs to be further
refined.  Too many subordinates (13) report directly to the Directeur General
and no particular responsibilities have been assigned. to the Deputy Directeur
General. The latter position has been vacant since January 1981. To
alleviate the Directeur General's workload and ensure efficient coordination
and optimum separation of responsibilities among the departments and
divisions of OPT's headquarters and its regional offices, Gôvernment and OPT
agreed, during negotiations, to reorganize OPT's top level structure
according to details given in a side letter. In the framework of this
reorganization, a new structure will be designed to take into account the
importance of the two principal fields of activity, that is, the postal and
financial branch and the telecommunications branch, as well as the support
units, such as finance, budget, accounting, personnel, planning, etc. In the
first phase, which will be implemented by June 30, 1983, the reorganization
will encompass the restructuring and, where necessary, the regrouping of
certain organizational units of OPT's headquarters and the definition of the
hierarchical order and functional lines of communication among its various
organizational units as well as between the headquarters and the regional
offices. In the same phase, job descriptions for each management position
will be drawn up. The qualifications, duties and responsibilities of the
managers of the principal organizational units should be satisfactory to IDA.
Postal Branch
4.05       The Postal branch of OPT performs the usual postal services,
operates a Postal Checking Account System (PCAS) and collects and disburses
funds on behalf of the Caisse Nationale d'Epargne. During the period
1974-1980, the Postal branch had a negative net cash flow in each year
except in 1975, increasing from minus CFAF 19 million in 1974 to minus CFAF
439 million in 1980.



- 19 -
4.06      Despite the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of the Guarantee
Agreement of Credit 431-UV, the Government has not provided all funds
necessary to ensure that the postal operations of the office would be carried
out efficiently. Instead, OPT has drawn about CFAF 2.2 billion from the PCAS
to cover the deficits of the Postal branch (para. 4.10). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government will repay to the PCAS
the amounts withdrawn by the Postal branch over a period of ten years.
4.07      The poor financial performance of OPT's Postal branch is due
primarily to overstaffing and inadequate service to the public. A general
staff freeze would be in effect for the duration of the project
implementation period (para. 4.13). As a result of the poor service, the
public makes extensive use of alternative means of transporting mail and
packages. The physical volume of mail and packages handled by OPT has
virtually stagnated since 1976. Under the proposed project, technical
assistance would be provided to assist in putting the postal service on a
more commercial and efficiently run basis (para. 4.18).
4.08      Postal tariffs were increased by an average of 30% in 1976 and by
10% in 1981. Although bigger increases would be warranted, it would reduce
only marginally future postal deficits and would at this time probably be
counterproductive because of the very poor service(para 4.07). The
Telecommunications branch will not be able, in the near future, to subsidize
postal operations (para. 5.16). During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that Government will provide promptly, as required, all funds
necessary to cover the overall deficits, including investments, of the Postal
branch during the project implementation period.
Postal Cheeking Account System (PCAS)
4.09      OPT operates a nationwide postal cheeking account system.   During
the period 1974-1980, deposits increased at an average rate of 40% per annum,
from CFAF 1,063 million to CFAF 7,956 million (US$29.5 million equivalent).
OPT is required to place private sector deposits with the Caisse Nationale
des Depots et d'Investissements (CNDI).  However, during 1980 OPT reduced
deposits with CNDI to CFAF 757 million, leaving only 36% of private sector
deposits covered. Funds deposited by the public sector were until recently
not subject to any regulations concerning their usage. One of the objectives
of the proposed project is to close any remaining loopholes (para. 4.11).
4.10      During the last few years, and in particular since 1978, there has
been a gradual relaxation of financial discipline in OPT. Despite a covenant
in the Project Agreement under the Second Telecommunications Project (Section
4.08.c) intended to limit borrowing from the PCAS, OPT has utilized CFAF
4,616 million (US$17.1 million equivalent) from the system. Out of this
total, CFAF 2,427 million has been used by the Telecommunications branch;
the remaining CFAF 2,189 million has been used by the Postal branch (para.
4.06). A recent mission of the West African Central Bank (BCEAO) confirmed
IDA's findings.



- 20 
4.11      To deal with the PCAS's procedural problems the Government informed
IDA that OPT has been barred from using PCAS funds since March 1981 . In
addition, the Government has Instructed OPT to transfer all new funds
deposited in the PCAS to the CNDI or other designated financial
intermediaries. The interest rate to be paid to OPT on these deposits, and
which should cover at least the costs incurred by OPT in providing postal
checking account services, is now being reviewed. In the future, OPT would
only be entitled to keep a working balance on hand to accommodate deposit
withdrawals. The Goverriment's measures are satisfactory to IDA. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that OPT will not use PCAS funds
during the project implementation period. Borrowings of PCAS funds on
suitable terms via financial intermediaries would be acceptable, subject to
the requirements of the debt limitation covenant (para. 5.15).
4.12       In order to put the PNAS again on a financially sound basis, the
amounts borrowed by OPT from the PCAS will be paid back.  The Government will
provide the funds owed by the Postal branch (para. 4.06). During
negotiations, assurances were obtaïned from OPT that the balance of PCAS
funds used by the Telecommunications branch will be repaid out of
telecommunications revenues over the ten year period 1983-1992.
Staff
4.13      OPT's permanent staff increased from 696 in 1974 to 1,653 as of the
end of 1980. The Telecommunications branch had a staff of 946 and the Postal
branch had 707 (including a 50% allocation to each branch of a common
services staff of 444). For both branches, this represents a level of
overstaffing which has had a major negative influence on operating results,
staff productivity and staff morale. The Telecommunications branch now has
153 employees per 1,000 subscriber lines in service, or about 90 per 1,000
telephones, which compares with 27 in Senegal and 29 in Kenya. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that OPT will freeze, for the duration
of the project implementation period, the total number of permanent staff at
the level existing as of the end of 1980, and that the amount allocated for
temporary and occasional staff will be frozen, in real terms, at the 1981
budget level. With these measures, the Telecommunications branch's ratio of
staff per 1,000 subscriber lines in service is expected to decrease from 153
in 1980 to 70 in 1.986. Staff and staff ratios will be included in OPT's
reporting requirements as one of the principal performance monitoring targets
(para. 2.17). Under the proposed project an expert will be provided to
review OPT's staff requirements and to recommend improved personnel
management procedures (para. 4.18).
Accounting
4.14      Under the first IDA project, OPT established a reasonably
satisfactory accounting system and separated accounts between the
Telecommunications branch and the Postal branch. However, adherence to
accounting procedures declined considerably since 1975 and the external



- 21 -
auditor could not certify the accounts for the years 1975 through 1978.
Following technical assistance to OPT financed under the PPF, the accounts
for 1979 and 1980 were recently certified. However, further improvements are
required in areas such as the application of accrual concepts, inventory
valuation and control, closing of the books (para. 4.15) and budget
preparation and monitoring. The number of staff in the Agence Comptable is
sufficient, but improved supervision as well as training are required. Under
the proposed Management Improvement Program, technical assistance will be
provided for a two year period to assist and train the accounting staff
(para. 4.18) and to ensure that adequate accounting and internal controL
systems will be in place.
External Auditing Arrangements
4.15       The present external auditing arrangements are satisfactory but,
until recently, the auditor's reports were issued with considerable delays
due to the fact that OPT frequently postpones closing of the books far beyond
the end of the fiscal year.    However, the new Government asked OPT to close
its books for 1980 on time and financial statements for that year were ready
by May, 1981; the external audit took place immediately afterwards. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that OPT will continue to use external
auditors acceptable to IDA and submit the annual external auditor's report
within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Data Processing
4.16       Inadequate data processing equipment has been one of several
reasons why OPT has been tardy in closing its books and preparing its
financial statements. To remedy this, OPT purchased in April 1980 a
minicomputer. To date, however, this computer is being used primarily for
preparation of the payroll and for some general accounting purposes.
Technical assistance is required to introduce monthly billing and collection
procedures, a management information system and to provide staff training in
operating and maintenance procedures. Such technical assistance and funds
for training abroad will be provided under the MIP (paragraph 4.18).
Insurance
4.17      With the exception of motor vehicles, OPT does not have insurance
coverage on its fixed assets for such risks as fire and theft.  The cost of
such insurance coverage would be high compared with the relatively small
risks. In addition, since OPT is a state-owned entity, the Government would
provide the necessary funds should serious losses occur. This policy is in
line with the approach adopted in many other countries and is acceptable.
Management Improvement Program (MIP)
4.18      Major improvements are needed in OPT's management in order to make
the entity function more effectively and efficiently. Thus, under the
project, a Management Improvement Program will be financed from the proceeds
of the proposed credit. IDA will finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost



- 22 -
(US$0.9 million) of about 72 man-months of consultants and experts at a cost
of US$12,000 per man-month, including about 24 man-months for staff
training plus fellowships for training abroad. The MIP would provide the
following experts and services over a period of up to three years:
(a)  assistance and training for the accounting department
(one expert for 24 man-months);
(b) assistance and training for the data processing service
for programming, introduction of computerized billing and
collection and a management information system, and
operation and maintenance of data processing equipment
(one expert for 12 man-months);
(c) assistance to the Postal branch to put this service on a
more commercial basis (one expert for 24 man-months);
(d)  review of OPT's staffing needs and personnel management
procedures (one expert for 6 man-months);
(e) review of telecommunications tariffs (6 man-months);
4.19      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from OPT that the MIP
will be carried out in accordance with a timetable and under terms of
reference as agreed with IDA (Annex 17).
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Performance and Present Financial Position
5.01      The financial performance of OPT's Telecommunications branch over
the period 1974-1980 has been mixed. The rate of return on the book value of
average net fixed assets in service fluctuated between a low of 2.7% in 1975
and a high of 13.8% in 1977 (tariffs were increased by an average of 25% in
May 1977).  OPT has met the revenue covenant under Credit 431-UV during the
period 1974-1978, except in 19751.  This covenant called for a rate of
return on the current value of average net fixed assets in service of 6%
during the period 1974-1978 and of 8% in 1979 and thereafter.  In 1979 a
steep decline started in the operating results and the rate of return
decreased to 5.7%. The principal reason for this was overstaffing (para.
4.13) combined with sharp salary level increases. The 1980 rate of return
improved to 7.4%, thus virtually meeting the requirements of the revenue
covenant.
1/  Subject to the reservations expressed about OPT's accounts in paragraph
4.14 and which may have distorted operating results in individual years.



- 23 -
5.02      Like the Postal branch, the Telecommunications branch has drawn
extensively on funds from the Postal Checking Account System (PCAS, paras.
4.09 - 4.12).  The Telecommunications branch used CFAF 2,427 million (US$9.0
million equivalent) from the PCAS through March 1981. The availability of
these free funds has contributed substantially to the gradual relaxation of
financial discipline within OPT. This situation would be rectified under the
proposed proJect (paras. 4.11 and 4.12).
5.03      The financial statements of the Telecommunications branch are
presented in Annexes 13 through 15. A summary of the key indicators of its
past financial performance follows:
Key Financial Indicators, 1977-1980
FY ending December 31           1977      1978    1979    1980
Operating revenues (CFAF min.)    1,200   1,731   2,400    2,534
Operating expenses (CFAF mln.)         920   1,374   2,128    2,149
Operating income (CFAF mIn.)           280     357      272       385
Operating ratio  (%)                    77      79       89        85
Rate of return * (%)                  13.8    10.5      5.7       7.4
Current ratio  (times)                 2.2     3.0      1.5       2.8
Debt/equity ratio                   65/35   59/41   59/41    58/42
Debt service coverage (times)          2.5     1.9      2.4       2.8
* On the current value of average net fixed assets in operation.
5.04      The operating ratios and rates of return were relatively
satisfactory during the period 1977-1978, but deteriorated considerably in
1979 due to sharp increases in operating expenses (para. 5.01). The current
ratio was satisfactory at an average of 2.4, if the amounts withdrawn from
the PCAS are regarded as long term debt rather than as a current liability.
Similarly, the debt/equity ratio would average about 60/40 if this adjustment
were made. In view of the fact that these withdrawals have, in fact, become
a long term debt (para. 4.12), OPT's accounts will be revised to reflect
this, starting with the accounts of 1981.
5.05      A summary of the financial position as of December 31, 1980 is
given below. The adjustments discussed in paragraph 5.04 are incorporated in
the balance sheet.



- 24 -
Balance Sheet
December 31, 1980                CFAF Million
Assets
Gross fixed assets                       7,900
Less:  depreciation                      2,518
Net fixed assets                    5,382
Work in progress                           897
Other investments                           116
Current assets                           1,915
Total Assets                       8,310
Liabilities
Equity                                   3,190
Long term debt:
-  Loans                            1,999
-  PCAS                            2,427
Current liabilities                        694
Total Liabilities                  R,3
Current ratio                                2.8
Debt/Equity ratio                          58/42
Accounts Receivable
5.06       As of December 31, 1981, the Government owed OPT CFAF 797 million
for telecommunications services, equivalent to 15 months of billing.
Although the Government settled in 1979 all arrears outstanding as of the end
of 1978 and increased the budget for telecommunications usage from CFAF 250
million in 1979 to CFAF 450 million in 1982, the latter is still below actual
Government consumption of CFAF 630 million. Government arrears have been a
persistent problem and are one of the reasons why OPT has used PCAS funds
(para. 4.10). During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that it will settle its arrears prior to December 31, 1982.
Section 3.02 of Credit Agreement 431-UV requiring Government to promptly pay
its bills for telecommunications usage would be maintained under the proposed



- 25 -
project, with the additional provision that bills will be paid within four
months of receipt at the latest. The installation of central automatic
message accounting equipment (para. 2.07.c) is expected to substantially ais'
Government in reducing unauthorized international calls, which are believed
to constitute a significant portion of its total usage. Accounts receivable
from the private sector stood at about four months of billing as of the end
of 1981. In view of the bimonthly billing cycle, this is acceptable. A
morithly billing cycle is expected to be introduced in 1982 and would further
reduce accounts receivable.
Valuation of Assets
5.07      As of the end of 1980, gross fixed assets were shown at an
acquisition cost of CFAF 7,900 million, which is equivalent to approximately
US$3,200 per installed line. The estimated cost per installed line under the
project is about US$3,091 equivalent in 1980 prices.- For inflation
monitoring purposes, assets have been revalued here by 6% per year from 1981
onwards. OPT's fixed assets include assets which were aquired either as
grants from bilateral donors or purchased at unfavorable prices. Some of
these assets, which are bôoked at values significantly exceeding ICB prices,
generate little operating revenues while adding substantially to operating
expenses. It is likely that, upon obsolescence, these assets would be
replaced by equipment and plant designed with a more appropriate dimensioning
and technology and thus providing a lower cost solution.
5.08      Upper Volta's part of the Sahelian transmission route of the
Panaftel telecommunications network financed by a bilateral grant of US$5.5
million equivalent is expected to be completed in 1983. However, this
investment will not generate revenues for several years since the necessary
international switching transit centers in Benin, Mali and Niger are
expected to be commissioned only in 1985. Consequently, this investment will
be considered here as work in progress during the years 1982-1984.
Financing Plan
5.09      In order to improve OPT's financial performance, measures need to
be taken to curb the increase in operating expenses, particularly those for
personnel (para. 4.13). OPT intends to introduce, effective January 1, 1983,
a tarif increase yielding at least a 15% average increase in revenues (para.
3.07).  Although during a transition period (1982-83) net internal cash
generation would be relatively low due to the increase in investment
expenditures and to the fact that very few new subscribers can be connected
to the network, the medium term outlook is good (para. 5.13).
5.10      The forecast funds flow statements for the period 1981-1987 are
shown in Annex 14. A summary of the sources and applications of funds during
the project implementation and disbursements period (1982-1987) follows:



- 26 _
FlNANCING PLAN
CFAF          US$
million      million    Percent.
SOURCES
Internal cash generation              20,920          77.5         79
Less: - Debt service                   5,268           19.5        20
- PCAS repayments                1,215           4.5          4
Net internal cash generation          14,437          53.5         55
Borrowings:
-  Proposed IDA credit*/             4,474          16.6         17
-  Proposed CCCE                     3,500          13.0         13
-  Future borrowings                 1,805           6.6          7
Total                                99779
Grants                                 2,134            7.9         8
TOTAL SOURCES                    26,350          97.6
APPLICATIONS
Proposed project                      10,843          40.2         41
Other capital expenditures            14,498          53.7         55
Change in working capital              1,009            3.7         4
TOTAL APPLICATIONS               26,350          97.6        100
*/  In addition, CFAF 76 million has been disbursed in 1981 under the PPF.
Assurances were obtained that the proposed US$17 million IDA credit will be
onlent by the Government to OPT at 11.6% interest and a final maturity of 20
years, including a grace period of 5 years. This interest rate is slightly
higher than the rate presently charged by the West African Central Bank to
non-preferential official borrowers and is expected to be a positive interest
rate in real terms during the project period and beyond. The proposed CCCE
loan is assumed to have a 5% interest rate and a 15 year final maturity,
including a 5 year grace period. Signature of the loan agreement between
CCCE and OPT is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. Future
borrowings are assumed to have terms similar to the onlending rate for the
proposed IDA credit. Grants will be provided by the Dutch Government for a
total amount of CFAF 1,134 million, which includes part of the proposed
project (para. 2.14) and by the Canadian Government (CFAF 1,000 million) for
the proposed PANAFTEL link.  During the project disbursement period OPT would



- 27 -
finance 55% of total applications from net internal cash generation, which is
satisfactory.
Other Investments
5.11      In addition to the proposed project, OPT plans to undertake during
the period 1982-1987 other investments (para. 2.01) for a total amount of
CFAF 14,498 million (US$53.7 million equivalent). About 64% of this total is
for preinvestments (11%) and investments (53%) for the next five year
program; 17% for rural and miscellaneous works; 7% for the PANAFTEL; and 3%
for expansion of the satellite earth station. A further 9% (CFAF 1,360
million) is for investments in the Liptako-Courma region; this corresponds to
one-third of the revised côst of Upper-Volta's share of the Liptako-Gourma
project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
will finance two-thirds of the annual investment expenditures incurred for
the Liptako-Gourma telecommunications project. Also during negotiations,
assurances were obtained from OPT that no additional works outside the agreed
program involving capital expenditures greater than US$1 million equivalent
in any one year will be undertaken during the project period without prior
agreement from IDA.
Future Finances
5.12      Forecast income statements and balance sheets for the period
1981-1987 are given in Annexes 13 and 15. The key financial indicators of
the telecommunications branch for the project period are given below:
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1982-1987
FY ending December 31                1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Operating income (CFAF min.)           464  1,012  1,735  2,798  3,539  4,208
Operating ratio (%)                     85     75      67      60     58      58
Rata of return* (%)                    7.3   13.5   17.4   19.5   18.9   18.9
Debt/equity ratio                   43/57  42/58  44/56  42/58  37/63  32/68
Current ratio                          1.7    1.8    1.9    2.1    2.2    2.2
Debt service coverage                  2.5    2.1    2.8    4.0    3.6    3.4
Net internal cash generation** (%)   23        27      41     61      70      81
* On the current value of average net fixed assets in operation.
** As a percentage of total applications.
5.13      Operating income and the operating ratio are expected to show
considerable improvement as the combined effect of measures to curb operating
expenses and a 15% tariff increase in 1983 take hold. The operating ratio



- 28 
would decrease from 85 in 1982 to 58 in 1987. The rate of returri on the
current value of average net fixed assets in service would increase from 7.3%
in 1982 to 13.5% in 1983, 17.4% in 1984 and about 19% thereafter. The
current ratio would be satisfactory, ranging from 1.7 in 1982 to 2.2 in
1987. The debt/equity ratio and the annual debt service coverage ratio both
indicate that there would be room for future borrowing starting in 1984.
5.14      Net internal cash generation would show very satisfactory progress,
increasing from 23% of total applications in 1982 to 81% in 1987, giving an
overall contribution of 55% (para. 5.10). The relatively low rates of net
internal cash generation in 1982 and 1983 are caused by the sharp increase in
the investment program; the corresponding rates of return would be quite
satisfactory.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that OPT will
achieve a rate of return of at least 13% on the current value of average net
fixed assets in operation in 1983 and at least 15% in 1984 and the years
thereafter. At this level, net internal cash generation would still
contribute 45% of total applications during the project period, which is
acceptable.
5.15      Debt service coverage is expected to be satisfactory, increasing
from 2.5 in 1982 to 3.4 in 1987. Debt service includes repayment of the
amounts borrowed by the Telecommunications branch from the PCAS (para.
4.12). During negotiations, assurances were obtained from OPT that no debt
will be incurred without prior IDA approval unless internal cash generation
of the preceding 12 months would cover the maximum future debt service
requirements (including repayments to the PCAS) at least 1.5 times. Also
during negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it
will assume, effective 1981, the loans from the African Development Bank and
the Nigeria Trust Fund (totaling about CFAF 2.3 billion) incurred in
connection with the Liptako-Gourma project (para. 5.11) and which were
initially charged against OPT.
5.16      The provisions of Section 4.06 of the Project Agreement under
Credit 431-UV have been retained. This covenant states that, during the
project implementation period, funds from telecommunications operations will
be applied to other OPT purposes only after the operations, debt service and
irivestment requirements of the Telecommunications branch have been met
(para. 4.08).
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a)  by June 30, 1983, OPT will be reorganized in accordance
with details given in a side letter. The qualifications,
duties and responsibilities of the managers of the
principal organizational units will be satisfactory to
IDA (para. 4.04);



- 29 -
(b)  it will repay to the PCAS the amounts borrowed by the
Postal branch over a period of ten years (para. 4.06);
(c) it will cover, as necessary, the overall deficits
(including investments) of the Postal branch (para.
4.08);
(d) it will settle its telecommunications arrears prior to
December 31, 1982 and it will pay promptly and at the
latest within four months of billing its bills for
telecommunications usage (para. 5.06);
(e) it will finance two-thirds of the annual investment
expenditures incurred for the Liptako-Gourma
telecommunications proJect (para. 5.11); and
(f) it will assume, effective 1981, the ADB and NTF loans
currently charged against OPT (para. 5.15).
6.02       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from OPT that:
(a) PCAS funds used by the Telecommunications branch will be
repaid oVer the period 1983-1992 (para. 4.12);
(b) the total number of its permanent staff will be frozen at
the level existing as of the end of 1980 for the duration
of the proJect implementation period, and allocations for
temporary staff at the 1981 budget level (para. 4.13);
(c) it will continue to use external auditors acceptable to
IDA and submit the auditors' reports within six months
after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.15);
(d) it will implement the Management Improvement Program in
accordance with an agreed timetable and terms of
reference (para. 4.19), and carry out a tariff study by
December 31, 1982 (para. 3.07);
(e) no additional works involving capital expenditures
greater than US$1 million equivalent per annum will be
undertaken outside the agreed investment program without
prior IDA approval (para. 5.11);
(f) it will achieve a 13% rate of return on the current value
of average net fixed assets in operation starting in 1983
and at least 15% in 1984 and thereafter (para. 5.14);



- 30 -
(g)  no debt will be incurred without prior IDA approval
unless maximum future debt service requirements be
covered at least 1.5 times (para. 5.15);
(h)  no PCAS funds will be used during the project
implementation period (para. 4.11); and
(i)  funds from telecommunications operations will be applied
to other OPT purposes only after the requirements of the
Telecommunications branch have been met (para. 5.16).
6.03      The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and OPT to onlend the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit on
suitable terms and conditions, and signature of a loan agreement between CCCE
and OPT (para. 5.10) are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
6.04      Subject to the above agreements the proposed project is suitable
for an IDA credit of SDR 14.9 million (US$17.0 million), including SDR
440,000 in PPF funds.



31 -
ANNEX 1
UPPER VOLTA
OFFlCE DES POSTS ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Ite-ti ... 1 Teleph.. SttltJs
A-- AI
8-1- ag, ge N-
-, N.. N..f
P,iipal Citil,         Ret   f C ... t'y                   N, 100 p.P1at!-                    Li-         f       fE.P[.)-
TIlIph.e,              (% If                    1% 1,  atio..l          =ta  TIlIph                             --       (% -f    Pl-         Tele-
pqp-           1  Mai.                   V.P- 1.1.7 mai  -P.-P-T-.t-.l -m-                                R-t                      R-t T-t ai- ph                    pe,
,1       TII-       Tell-    R.ti.:  .1-   TlI-   TIl I -    Ja- TIlI-   Tel-             N.-   Pi-         f      N-   P, 1 -      f    LI- ) PI                   000
t1        ph.-,  111-          T1a]/  ti-   ph..e, ph-           t 1-   ph.-    ph.-         ti-    lpaJ  C.-        ti-    eip.1  C-11-          0-e- H-e- T-Il-
(00g       (000,)  M.1.                                                          l   Citi-           t'y    al   Citi-        t,y    M   h.ld  h.Id   ph--
WORLD                               472   3                                                                             16 4
AFRICA                                4:,'3                                                                              1:6
-Tg"ia                                   L                                                            17.2    N.A.    2.
1"'(00                                  22        258    1.64    13.0   82.8    N.A.  87.0                              2 14.1   0.4           1.4    N.A.  N.A.    ti.A.    6.1   0.13   N.A.
B.t--(1TU/78               767          W                  .7l      N                       N.A. 3N.A.  N.A.    1).32   N.A.  N.A.   0 8              N      N-A   N.A.   N.A.  N.A            N.A.
1.1   1-IA:    1.1.  1:9    N.A.    C 1 N.A.  N.A.    0.1   N.A    N.A    7 .6                      N.A.            N.A.
Z,,di(AT&T/78)           3, 5 5l         5           3      .65      N.A. 6                                                                             :':        -    9N-A
Cap- V- dl                  314           2           1     1.17    14.4    5.4 17.1    S5.6    4 6   82.9             (:5    3.1   0.1         0 4     0 5    0.4    40.9       4.7    0.02    N.A.
-(ITU/78)             444           2           1    .11      1-1.1.1:1.1tN:I.   N.1.  N:A.  I.A.   0.4    N.A.  N A.    0.3    N A.  N.A.    N.A                        N.A.  N.A.    N.A.
Dj!b-i                     350           4           2      .92    95.7    0 0      0 0      4.3    0 0    0.0        1.2    1.3    0:0        0.6    0:7    0.0       N.A:   4.9    0.18    N.A.
Eg> P' (Al&7/79        40 f)O         486        N.A.  M.A.    27.5          -A.  I.A.  62:1    1.1.  1.1-    1-31   N.1.  I.A.    I.A.  I.A.  N.A.   N-                         -,    "      "'-'
Elhi.pia                30:76,           84          52               6.6   7N6.2 87:4.  11.1        3'8   12.6.    0.;   3.    0.1          0.2    2.2.  0.02    N..'A   ', .0    0.01    3.7
U                           .63    1        9
c11,0                                      3          2      .98      8.7    9.6    N A    8 3        0.4    N.A       0.              0.0      0.3    N.A    N.A.    5 1        4.4    0.03   N.A.
11,450          69          37    1.86    13.9    N.A. 83.2    86.1   N.A. 16.8               0.6    N.A.  N.A.   0.3    1.9          M        N.A.   4.7    0.04   61.0
I- Y C."t                703            78          2     2.67    94 f) 10 .0 100              .0       0     .0              1-'    '-'      0.4    0.4    0 0    24.8         4.6    0.06    I.A.
K-ya                     15,427         16S          70    2.42       9:2  409.0  40:05   960.8   501:0   509.5        :l'   5.8    0.6        0.5    2.0    0 3       N.A      6.0    0.07   30.0
L- t '.(ITU/74)           1,1 56          4           2    2.06       N.A.  N.A.  M.A.    N.A.  N.A.  'I.A.    n.3    N.A.  N.A.   0.2    N.A.  N.A.   N.A.    N.A.  N.A.   N.A.
M,d.9a".,(IIU/77)   410                 32          15    2.12       N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   4.A.  M.A.  N.A.   0.4    I.A.  N.A.   0.2    N A.  4.A.   N.A.   N.A.  I.A.   N.A.
Z-15:q9o                                 2           12    2.32       6 6 54 188.4    93.4   45.9   11.6               0.5    4.0    0.2        0.2    2.8    0.03    N.A.   6.0    0.03   N.A.
Ma.'iti.                   924          396         ?1     1.74    15:6   40:2   31.4    84.4   59.8   68.6           3.9   10.1   2.8         2.3    4.6    1.8    57.4         5.3    0.21   N.A.
M.,.-.                   19, 600        227         N.A.  N.A.    30.6    N.A.  N.A.  69.4    N.A.  N.A.    1.2    N.A.  N.A.    N.A.  N.A.  N.A.    N.A.    5.8    0.06    N.A.
'-211                       961          50          29    .71   110.2   49.2   57 4    89.S   50.8   42.6            5,2   25.2    3.0        3.1  17.2    1.4    19.3         .0    0.31   N.A.
R.-d(AT&T/79)           4, 500           6           4      .61      7.0   62.0   61:3    83.0 3.0   38.7            0.1   0.45  0.06    0.1   (.3    0.04   54.1              4.7    0.01   10.1
5e,Iqal(AT&Ti79          5,085          40          17    2.32    44.5  0.4   84.2    55.5    9.6   15.R             0.8    1:6    0.1        0.33   0.6    0.1       N.A.   N.A.  N.A.  27.4
S,>,hIIl -62                              6           3    2.25    37.2  76.1  76.1   2.S 23.9   23.9                 9.6 19 7        3.7      4.      8.8    1.6      N.   4.7    0.43    N.A.
s-,hAf,i,a              24,1;40      2,662       1,4135     ;.88    34.5   73.3  79.8    65.5   26.7   20.2    10 8 23.0    4:4                 5.7   13        1-S    53.5      5.1   0.46 JIN.A.
Sd-                     18,513          63          4       .41      9.6 91.4  90.2    90.4    8.6    9.8             0:3    3.3    0 03    0.2    233   0.03  68.9            5.0    0.02    9.4
141          l'          4     1:11   11.9. 76.1  i4.0.  H-1. 13.1   i6.0                 1.9   12.6    0.5       0.9    5.5    0.1   79.9          6.n    (.12    N.A.
T- 'a ia(AT&Ti73)  16,13                74          24    3 0        N.A  80.0    N.A        N.A  20.0    N.A.   0.5    N.A.  N.A.    0.2    N.A.  N.A.  66.7                   N.A.  N.A.   N.A.
T- 1.i6,133                             173         100    1.73    19.1    N.A. 67.5    80.9    I.A. 32.5              2.8    N.A.  N.A.        1'6     5.8    0.6      N.A.    5.5    O.lÉ  23.2
Uq-da                   l26 30          46          20    2.37       4.8   76.9   74.6    95.2   23.1  25.4           0.4    5.9    0.09    0.2    2.4    0.04   79.1           5.0    0.02   26.7
uppe, Wlta               6,1(3            5           9     1.8       7.3  97.6   97.6    92.7    2.4    2.4           0.15   190              (.08   1.1              I.A.   N.A.  N.A,  99.0
zai'l                   28,291           3(        N.A.  N.A.    91.9   74.9    N.A.   8.1  25.1    N.A.   0.1   (.09  0.3                      N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   N.A.   4.8    0.01    N.A.
Zi                                                 m                                                              .   2       1NZ-bla   5,650  1  2 2.34    34.9   80.0   98.0    65.?  20.0    2.0  1.1   2.5    0.3  0.5    1.3   0.01   N.A.   4.8    0 05  4S.8
-b.b-                   7,460         214                 N.A.    15.8   50.4    N.A    84.2   19.6    N.A             .9    4 .(,   0.7      N.A        A    N.A.   N.A.   7.6    0:22   78.5
mît ICPIS                          21 0,307                                                                           36.5
ca-da                   23,691    l5,5O         9,477                                                                                        40.0   42.3   38.1    29.8         3.3   2.20    6.7
5     .64    44.4 52.2   47:0    55.6   47.8   53.0    65.7   77.2   56.5
"il,                    il 159          554         3 1      .58    55.3  88.5  90 8    44.7   11.5    9.2             5.0    7.9    1.3        3.1    5.2    0.6    48.8        4.8    0.24   14.0
C.1-hi                 26:395       1,524       1,242    1.23    46.0   75.1   N.A.  54.0   24.9    M.A.    5.8    9.4    2.7                  4.7    M .  N.A.  37.5           5.0    0.29   13.2
C-ta Ri-                  2S7          195         124    1.56    43.11  FI .6   90 3.  56.9   13.4    9.7.   8.9   17.9    2 1                5.7   il 9.   1 0.  27 6         5.6    0.50   14 0
G-l-al                    5: 60          82          80    1..2    47.1060.0    N:A    52.9    0.0    N.A              1.6    3.4    0:0        1.6    N:A    N:A    33:3        5.0    0.08   44:2
11-i-                   71           4,533       2,383    1.9       41.1;  86.9   89.2    58'4 13.1   10.8             6.3   13.2      1.4      3      7-1   0.6    39 5         6.7    0.42    6.1
1'2  7;9   175,505    91,26l                              .9,2   49.1  51.6  É,8.9    5(l.9   48.4   51.1    79.2   83.2  75.3                 241 l         1.3    ?64       Z.8    Z.30    6.0
V-I-Ila                 13,             165        684    1.70    49.2   52.5  82.2    50.8  47.5   17.8               8.6    9.1   8.0         5.0    8.4    1.8    60.1        5.5    0.47   12.9
AsiA6 6    71: 32                                                                                                       5'8
17:511      25              Il             41-1  67.1  11.4    51.7   32.9   34.6    14.6   23.8    8.2                9.9   l5.6   5.R    47.8        4.9    0.71    9.2
7       :5"          73            i10.1 101:0  10( .0        0:0    0.0    0.0    30.2   30:2    0-0    23 4 23.4    0 0    38.4.   4.5    1.40    6.5
1dia                   660,439       2611        1,972        33      7.2   56 7 53.4    92 8 43.3  46.6               1.4    3 1 0.2           0:3    2.2    0:2       N.A       5.2    0.01 1( 3.1
1,do-ia               141,579          393         275    1. 43    l:l   71.1  65.1    89.0   29.5   34 .9           0.3    1.8      0.1      0.2    1.2    0.1       N:1-    5-1   ..l    I.A.
1-Il3830                             1,081         759    1. 43         8 73.172 2    4 .2   2(,.9   27.R    28.2   39.9   15.S    19.8   27.(,11.4                     N A.      3.7    l.^l    9.0
3ap-                   116: 5-      55 422    4( 082    1.38    55.2  60.5    N:A.  484.8   39.5    N.A.  47.6   52.1  41.9    34.4    N.A.  N.A.   N.A.   3.3    1.50    6.0
K   a (Sth)          37 355       2899        2:341    1.24    46.7   72.1  67 0    53.3  37.9   33.0               1      11-1    4:1      6.1   9.1    3.1    51.1         5.1   ().38   il.;
layja(AT&T/79)   13,33              439         273    .6l    10.2   58.6   55:5    89.841.4  44.5                   3 18.9                2.0 i1.2    1.0    64.3           N.A.  N.A         -
0.0    (.0    0.0                       C                                 2
Maidi-                       143           1           1     .00   100.0 100.0  100.0                                  0.6    0,6               0.6    0.6    0.0    5 .7         6.0    0.0       5.,
pk!t..                86 50           314         293       07    9.l  61 3       N.A.  80 9 38.7    N              0.F            0.2         3    N.A.  N A        N.A.   5.7    0.02 110.1
philippi                46 58(l'        52          3 3      -             1                                      -                                              : -  54.8        5.9    0.0    2.5
0         0      .71      6.7   00:0   00.0    83:3    0.0    0:ô           ,      4,.7       o     'O.7    3.9    0 0                           6
""g'p"'                   2,363         625        444    1.41   1 00.0  100.0    N.A.   n.0          0.0    0.0    26.5   26.5    0.0         18.8    N.A.0.0    42.6           4.0    1.10    5.8
S,i La,.1a11&i/79) 13,900               79          9    1.59       6.9   64.7   59.5    93.1  35:3  40.5.   0.6    5.3    0.2                0:4.  3.1.  0 2.  66.2.   5 7            0.03 116.3
S,,9,811                                236       M.A.   N.A.    37.3   82.7    N.A.  62.7    7 3    N.A               2.7     5.9    0.7       N A     N.A    N:A       N.A      5:4    0.15    NA.
Thlla,[               46,114          451         312    1.45    15.1  82.2   81.2    84.9   17.8   18.9             1.0    5.3    0.2        0.7    3.6    0.1   63.3         6.9    0.06  23.3
LUROPE                              177                                                                                23,4
C.I  -l.,.kl            15,280      3,073       1,616    1 90    17.3  37.0   38.9    82.7   63.0   61.1   20.1  43.0   15.3    10.6   23.8    7.8    64.2                       3.0    0.61    N.A.
F, a-                   51          11,111    11,171    1:1          3l_    1 -1   43-1    ^8.4   48.3   568    41.5  678   ?9.3    25.9   35.4   21.5                I.A.   2 .8    1 .2(1   7.0
Ge-        FId.         6 43        26,632    19,229    1.39    27.8   38.6   36.4    72.2  61.4   63.6    43.3  60.2   36.9    31.3  41.0   27.6                        N.A.   2.5    1.10    6 3
G-    l                   9 489     1:611       1,J116    .14    M:1  11.1  69.5    49.8   28.9   30.5    28.1  39.8   16.3    22.7   31.5   73.9    30.0                      3.4    0.95 10:8
It4                    56,999       8 055       2  67       .49      5 4 52.9   51.4    64.6   47.1  48.(,   31.7  47.4   23.1   21.3  31 0 6.l    36 2                        3.2    0.99    4.7
Spa!                    37,775    11,108         6,361    1.75    27.4 47.5  49.4    72.6   52.5   50.6    29.4 51.0 21.3                      ,6.8   30:4    1.7    37:5         3.7    1.10    5 2
d8303                             6 4 7      4,336    1.48    35.8   42.9   43.3    64.2   57.1  56.7    77.2  92.5  68.6    52 2 63.2  46.3    31.1                          2.5    1.90    N.A.
11, Il                      314      4 40        2:755    1.11    34.6   45.1   42.5    65.4   54.4   57.1    71.4   1 -1   51.6    13:1   13-1 31.1    47.1                      2.3    1.11    1-1-
Uitd k!q,1-          55 '946    26,51    17 717         1.50    31.4   38.7   35.5    69.6   61.3  64.5    47.6   58.7   42.6              31.7 35.8   29.8    38.2           2.8    1.30    9.0
LISSR                  264,486    ?2.4    19,164    1.17    10.2   26.2    N.A.  89.8   73.8    N.A.    5.5  21.8    7.0                       7.2    N.A.  N.A.   N.A.   3.1   0.26    N.A.
OCEANIA                                9 276                                                                           42,0
=t,.lia                 14,249      7:396       4,755    .56    68.1  68.3  6 .5    31.9   31.7   32.5    51.9   52.1  51.6    33.4   33.1  34.0                      N.A.   3.3    1.80   11.8
Fiji                        6 4          38          21      .76    13.9   45.9   40.4    86.1  54.1  59.6             6-(   19.9      3.8      3.4   10.0     2.4      N.A.   6.5   O.M    26'7
NI. Za1-d1               3,148      1,730       1,103        57    61.0  69 2 65.1    39.0   30.8   34.9    54.9   62,3  43.4    35.0 37 4 31.3    25.6                          3.2    1.80 14.4
Pap-  N-                  3,125          45          23     :9S      9.0   85.'2   83.9    91.0   14.8   16.1          1.4 13.7    0.2         (.7     6:8     0.1      N.A. 6.4    0.09   60.5
S..," :Th' dta, a,d the                     the-f, i the ab-I table .,I b-ed -                                  -pplild by I-h -,ty, telepl-                                            -Pa.y t.
AT&Ta                                                                                                                          lia l  _    .       .                         ,he,
et    dI- pilId b tht           p-y 1  it. p.bll-tio,  Th, W-ld' T,lIph-e - A Stt!tial C-p    t                                     f Ja .11 1980". -         Pt
1,-i,d i-ted .
DIfiit J_                                RIP,e-t the lat-t a'.11ablI                          -ti-te ,  Ip.,ted by the -p-ti-    tIlIph-I                                           - p-y f.,
P,!,.i"l Cfti-         r"    - tiI,  th-    th-    the USA, the piip.] itiI, -l th-                          dI,ig.atId by I-h                 tellph' I
-p-; i -t --  th,y -  the 1-9-t, -t p-fi-t ., "..Id ., ha,1.9 --iai ., hit. ,ieal  çifj-c,
r., the USA, the P1!.eiP1 1ti- -I th- Fth mplatl.. i, I-I- f 50,000.
R-t   f C.t,y:    Data -    p.p.lati.., tel Ipho.- , It, f.r -l-     f "h                               th-    th-   the Pi.eipal liti-
T.t1 TIlIph.,-:  Tt1 -e-     f                          a-ilable t. the e-al p.b11.  E-Lud-   gite tIlIph.,Is -t --                                 ted to pb1i tIlIph.e
M.fi, TelIph.,I,:   TIlI,h.-     ... ICII di,-t t. the I-hagI.  a1.de tIlIph.,,I ....-ted t. the -h,çI -                                       11,
thl..gh  p,ite b,a,h I-h-ge.
8-1--  Li,,I,:          Tteph.,,I li-                      tIlIph..e .ch-gI t, -b- ib--                            tati.. ., tIlIph.,.I.
Fi .. IhLd:                            -   hy              !,:di,id.a]1y ., l g,..P f., p- idi,%lhe.Il-,   tth f..d -d   the,                                     f-
PI          -be         f    ,IlIp . I  d.1i,t-ti-    ., - p-Y  h. a e f 1ith p,.idi,,g -d -pi.1tig pAli
tIlIph..e
N.A.:                   Dt -t qi-             by tIllph-,                                  Al-    -d W-l qi-                dt.  I-Jt 1 i.pl..,iblI
N.tI:  ThI tIl'ph-             dt. f., "W.,Id" ad the                   .,e ..ly 1,, -p-t   f co-trie, Wih fr.ihed! the data to AT&T.
ThI are likIly t. bI high-
D-be, 3. 1981



UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMHMUNICATIONS
SURVEY OF TELEPHONE BOOK LISTING
Three Larger Towns With       Three   Three            Six Smaller Towns with Small Manual Exchanges h/   Six            Six
200-Line Automatic Exchanges   Towns   Towns   Dedougou  Tenkodogo  Gaoua  Diebougou  Tougan  Koupela  Towns   Towns
Koudougou  Banfora  Ouahigouya  Total  Percent    (67)            (34)       (34)      (34)      (19)      (26)   Total  Percent
Public Service Activities
Government administration a/   50           42         28        120                 18         17         12        13         5         4       69
Education b/                       8         3          4         15                  2          1          2         0         1         0        6
Health c/                          7         6          5         18                  1          2          3         1         1         1        9
Law and order d/                  10         2          0         12                  2          2          3         1         2         0       10
Churches and missions              3         1          1          5                  1          0          2         4         0         1        8        _
78       54         38        170       37        24         22         22        19          9         6     102         67
Economic Activities
Commercial banks                   8         7          8         23                  1          2          1         2         0         0        6
Shops, hotels, garages,
gas stations                     22        28         27         77                  9          2          2         1         3         0       17
Other business establish-
ments, factories, managers e/ 32           40         i9         91                  1          1          1         1         0         1        5
Transport f/                       3         3          1          7      _           0          0          2         1         0         0        3
65       78         55        198       43        il           5          6         5         3         1       31        20
Other
Individual subscribers g!         45        21         20         86                  5          2          0         4         1        *2       14
Public call office                 1         1          1          3      _                      i          1         1         1         1        6        _
46       22          21         89      20         6           3          1         5         2         3       20        13
Total Telephones                   189       154        114        457      100        41         30         29        29        14        10      153       100
a/  Central and local government offices and officials, quasi-government organizations and enterprises such as electrie power company and posts
and telecommunications (offices and officials), international and aid organizations.  Government offices include special programs such as
forestation program, agriculture extension, meteorological service, etc.
b/ Secondary and technical schools, colleges, adult training programs, teachers.
c/ Hospitals, clinics, dispensaries, physicians and medical workers, drug stores.
d/ Police and courts of justice (offices and officials).
e/ Could include some shops.
f/ Railway and truck terminals and agencies.
&/ Telephones listed under individual names (could include some shops and businesses).
h/ Number in parenthesis under town name is subscriber capacity of the manual exchange.
1i



UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Exchange Capacity and Subscriber Lines - Actual 1980 and Forecast 1981 - 1987
------------------------- TELEPHONE -------------------------    Fill %   ----- TELEX ----
Exchange Capacity                          DEL's                    Auto                   Subs.   Fil.
YEAR        Manual    Automatic    Total         Manual    Automatic    Total         Exch.   Capacity    Lines    %
- - - - - - - - -    -   -  - - - - - - - - - A C T U A L - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1980         1,224       7,800        9,024        613         5,549         6,162      71%       268          210    78%
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - F O R E C A S T - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1981         1,224       7,800        9,024        585          5,816        6,401      75%       268          220    82%
1982         1,224       9,400       10,624        674         6,165         6,839      66%       268          246    92%
1983         1,100       9,400       10,500        757         6,324         7,081      67%      600           276    46%
1984         1,000      11,200       12,200        453         9,405         9,858      84%       600          309    52%
1985         1,000      15,400       16,400        468         11,982       12,450      78%       600          355    59%
1986         1,000      19,400       20,400        485         13,372       13,857      69%       600          400    67%
1987         1,000      19,400       20,400        502         14,210       14,712      73%       600          440    73%



UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Thousandsof subscribersconnections               EXPRESSED DEMAND AND SUPPLY OF SUBSCRIBER CONNECTIONS
100
90                                                                                                              I
80 _                                                                                                            I
70  -
60  -
50                                                                                                              I
40  -
30                                                                                                              I
20 -                                                                                                                                15%Rateof
Grovwth in Expressed
Demand Projected for                                 -
Future
10                                                                                                              |                                                                                    s-e 
9 _                                                               Historical Growth in
8                                                            Expressed Demand 15%Annual                           Unsatisfied Expressed       /      \
7_,_emand                                            Projected Growth under
' _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~the Proposed Third Telecom-
6 _-_                                                                                                                                                   munications Project
4 L
Subscribers under the
Second Telecommunciations               I
Project
2I
ACTUAL   I  PROJECTED
1972       1973        1974        1975         1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981         1982        1983        1984         1985        1986        1987
Worid Bank-22660



- 35 -
ANNEX 5
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PRO0ECT
Summary of Physical Targets
Year End
1980       1986
Actual    Forecast
Number of automatic exchanges                                6          15
Number of manual exchanges                                  60         64
Total number of exchanges                                   66          79
Capacity of automatic exchanges                          7,800      17,000
Total Capacity of all exchanges                         9,024      18,000
Number of manual subscriber lines                          613        485
Number of automatic subscriber lines                     5,549     13,372
Total number of all subscriber lines                    6,162      13,857
Percentage of automatic subscriber lines                  90%         97%
Kilometers of microwave and long distance cables         1,200      2,280
Number of long distance telephone circuits                 250         520
Number of telex exchanges                                    1           1
Capacity of telex exchanges                                268        600
Number of telex lines                                      210         355



UPPLR VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
Telecommunicdtions Investment PFrogram 1982-1986
(CFAF mil lioi)
1982                  1983                   1984                   1985                   1986                   Total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local [oreign Tot   Local'Foreign Total  Local Fvreign  Total
A. Switchinq
Ouagadougou    3,600 lines        -      135    135      12    216    228       13    216    229        -      68     68       -       -       -     25    635       660
Bobo-Dioulasso 4,000 lines         -     170    170       -       -       -     14    276    290       13    276    289        -      93      93     27    815       842
Province        1,200 lines       -       72      72      7    119    126        8    119    127        -      40     40       -       -       -     15    350       365
Extension, adapt. trunk           -       60      60      5      70      75      5      65     70       5      60     65       -      30      30     15    285       300
Total Switchirg             -     437    437       24    405    429       40    676    716       18    444    462        -    123    123       82  2,085   2,167
B. Local Networks
Ouagadougou                     254      211    465    398    331    729    221    184    405    156    129    285            78      65    143  1,107    920   2,327
Bobo-Dioulasso                     -       -       -    230    161    391    365    257    622    194    136    330           57      40      97    846    594   1,440
Province                         24       56      80     24      56      80     24      56     80      24      56    100      24      24      56     80    120       400
Total Networks             278      267    54_5   652           1,00    610   -4 7-  1,107       4i 34    T    695 9    35     1FT    320 9 67-lT  1,794   3,867
C. Transmission
Ouagadougou-Diebougou Cable    30        470    500      55    195    250        -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -      85    665      750
Microwave Diebougou-Bobo           -      45      45     44       -     44       -    160    160        -    160    160         -     45      45     44    410       454
Microwave Bobo-Caoua              -       50      50     58       -      58      -    165    165        -    166    166        -      50      50     58    431       489
Total Transmission          30      5655    9      157     9       5                               -    3Z6    326        -         95         187  T,506   1,693
D. Buildings                     40        -      40      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -     40       -       40
E. Tools & Vehicles               -      100    100       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -    100      100
F. Engineering                    -       32      32      -      77     77       -      72     72       -      42     42       _      17      17       -    240      240
G. Technical Assistance           -       50      50      -    130    130        -      70       0 7- -                     -          -       -      -    250       250
Base Price                 348   1,451  1,799    833  1,355  2,188    650  1,640  2,290    392  1,133  1,525    159    396    555  2,382  5,975   8,357
H. Price Contingenicies          41      140    181    211    266    477    263    526    789    225    506    731    116    192    308    856  1,630   2,486
TOTAL PR08ECT                   389   1,591  1,980  1,044  1,621  2,665    913  2,166  3,079    617  1,639  2,256    275    588    863  3,238  7,605  1O,843
i. Other Investments
PANAFTEL (CIDA)                 100      900  1,000       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -    100    900   1,000
Liptako-Gourma Project           60      260    320      60    180    240       60    300    360       20    300    320         -    120    120    200  1,160   1,360
Rural projects and
miscellaneous projects         70      330    400      70    330    400       60    255    315       65    285    350       75    320    395    340  1,520   1,860
4th Telecomm. Project             -        _       _      _       _      _       -    130    130    400  1,200  1,600    900  2,600  3,500  1,300  3,930   5,230
TOTAL OTHER INVESTMENTS         230   1,490  1,720    130    510    640    120    685    805    485  1,785  2,270    975  3,040  4,015  1j940  7,510   9,450
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM        619   3,081  3,700  1,174  2,131  3.305  1,033  2,851  3,884  1,102  3,424  4,526  1,250  3,628  4,878  5,178 15,115  20,293
March 1982



UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Construction Schedule of the Third Telecommuncations Project
1981                  1982                   1983                   1984                    1985                   1986
1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4         1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4           1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
A. SWITCHING EQUIPMENT
Bids, Evaluation, Contracts
Manufacture and Del ivery
Installation                                                _    _                                              -    -
B. LOCAL NETWORKS
Bids, Evaluation, Contract
Factory and Delivery                                              -    _    -            _ -    -    -          _ -         _ -    -          _
Constructon and Installation                                            -           _    -    -    -    -    -    -         -    -    -    -        _    -     _
C. TRANSMISSION
Ouaga-Dedougou Contract               _ 
Manufacture and Delivery                   _
Installation
Diebougo-Bobo-Gaoua
Bids, Evaluation, Contract
Manufacture and Delivery                                                _    _    -    -
Installation                                                                                   _           _ -              -
Worid Bank-22659



- 38 -
ANNEX 8
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELCOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US3 thousand)
It is assumed that the Credit will be approved by the Association in
3une 1982.
IDA Fiscal Year and              Cumulative Disbursements
Semester Prior to Dec. 31, 1981            at end of Semester
PPF                                                440
1983
December 31, 1982                            1,90O.
June 30, 1983                                3,340
1984
December 31, 1983                            5,000
June 30, 1984                                7,140
1985
December 31, 1984                            9,000
June 30, 1985                               11,140
1986
December 31, 1985                           12,750
June 30, 1986                               14,540
1987
December 31, 1986                           15,700
June 30, 1987                               17,000



- 39 -
ANNEX 9
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Performance Indicators
A set of indicators which would assist in the monitoring of OPT's
performance during the project period has been established. OPT will be
asked to report on the actual as well as the projected achievements related
to the performance indicators.
Year ending December 31           1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Exchange capacity                      9,400   9,400  11,200  14,600   17,000
Main lines                             6,839   7,081   9,858  12,450   13,857
Number of employees:                   1,653   1,653   1,653   1,653    1,653
I Telecommunications                  749      749      749     749       749
*  Postal/financial                   511      511      511     511       511
*  Common services                    393      393      393     393       393
Staff per 1,000 DEL's in service*        139      133      97       76        70
Rate of return                           7.3    13.5    17.4    19.5        18.9
Operating ratio                           85       75      67       60        58
Investment program (CFAF min):         3,700   3,305   3,884   4,526    4,878
*  IDA project                      1,980   2,665   3,079   2,256         863
*  Other                            1,720      640      805   2,270    4,015
Net internal cash generation**            23       27      41       61        70
Debt service coverage (times)            2.5      2.1     2.8      4.0       3.6
*  Telecommunications staff, including temporary staff and 50% of common
services staff.
** As a percentage of total applications.



- 40 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Summary of Principal Tariffs
(As of December 31, 1981)
CFAF
1.   Telephone
Installation fees (per main line)                         10,000
Extension telephone                                        6,250
Guarantee deposit:
business                                   25,000
* other users                                 10,000
Rental:
(a) automatic exchanges:
* up to 200 lines                              9,600 per year
* 200-2,000 lines                             12,000 per year
* more than 2,000 lines                       13,500 per year
(b) manual exchanges (incl. lump sums for
local traffic):
* up to 50 lines                              15,000 per year
. 50 to 100 lines                             16,500 per year
(c)  Additional main line                           50% of above rates
(d)  Extension telephone                                4,800 per year
Local calls (automatic)                                       50 per call
Long distance calls:
(a)  Operator connected per unit call of 3 mns:
0-  50 km                                  100
51 -  75 km                                  150
*   76 - 100 Icm                                  250
*  101 - 150 km                                  350
*  151 - 200 km                                  450
(over 200 km, there is an additional CFAF 150 for
each additional 100 km or portion of 100 km, with
a maximum of CFAF 900 per unit).



- 41 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
(b) Subscriber trunk dialing - Pulse metering
system, charge for one pulse: CFAF 50:
Duration between pulses (sec)
Full Rate      Night & Weekend
O  -   50 km                   90                180
51  -   75 km                   60                180
76  -  100 km                   36                 72
101  -  150 km                   30                 60
151  -  200 km                   24                 48
201  -  300 km                   18                 36
301  -  400 km                   15                 30
O Over      400 km                   12                 24
Public call offices:
Tariffs are as above with an additional charge of CFAF 25 for
local calls and CFAF 50 for long distance calls.
CFAF
2.   Telex
Installation fees                                            50,000
Guarantee deposit                                           175,000
Rental (incl. maintenance of teleprinters)                   40,000 per year
Communications:
(a)  local, per 90 sec.                                       50
(b)  long distance, per 30 sec.                               50
3.   Telegraph
Per word, with a minimum of 10                                   30
4.   International Telephone Service
The following are sample rates for three-minute, station-
to-station, telephone calls:
Upper Volta   to   Senegal                                 1,365
Ivory Coast                           1,365
France                                1,820
Germany                               2,457



- 42 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Rate of Return on Investments
1.        OPT's investment proaram for the period 1982-1986, of weich the
project is an integral part, also includes ongoing and other %orks. The
close relationship between project and non project investments makes any
attempt at separation arbitrary. Therefore, the rate of return calculation
is made on the basis of OPT's entire telecommunications investment program,
excluding preinvestments for the 1986-1990 program.  Investments for the
PANAFTEL link are included, but this investment is not expected to go into
service until 1985 (para. 5.08).
2.        The benefit period extends from 1982 to 2001 when, on average,
equipment provided under the program will have finished its useful life.
3.        As from 1988 on, operating costs and revenues related to the
program are assumed to remain constant.  Incremental revenues are based on
expected additional telephone and telex subscribers and traffic brought about
by the program. Operating costs are based on additional costs generated by
the increases in costs and traffic; they are net of depreciation, interest,
taxes and duties. No residual values of fixed assets have been taken into
account as the discounted real value of these would be minimàl.
4.        A summary of the cost and benefit stream is given below in CFAF
million. All revenues and costs have been deflated to bring them to their
comparable 1982 price levels.
Capital       Incremental Operating       Net
Year         Expenditures    Costs        Revenues    Benefits
1982            3,700            -              -       (3,700)
1983            3,005           77            353       (2,729)
1984            3,102          139          1,337       (1,904)
1985            2,198          247          2,538           93
1986              941          350          3,336        2,045
1987                -          436          3,927        3,491
1988 - 2001         -          520          4,533        4,013
The net benefit stream above results in a financial rate of return of 25%.



- 43 -
ANNEX 11
Page =
5.        A sensitivity analysis was performed with the following results:
10%  increase in capital expenditures:        22.75%
10%  increase in operating expenses:          24.65%
10%  decrease in operating revenues:          22.25%
Combination of all of the above factors:    19.95%
6.        Using the standard conversion factor of 0.83 for local currency,
excluding taxes and duties and assuming that new subscribers are willing to
pay the same tariffs in real terms as existing subscribers, the economic rate
of return for the program is 30%.



UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
EXISTING ORGANIZATION CHART
As of December 31, 1980
Audit Branch
of the                                                                     Mïnister ot Information
Supreme Court          I                                                    Posts and Telecommunications
General Inspection                                                         [
and Financial Comp-                                                -  - -           Board of Directors
troller (Ministry of                                                                      OPT
F inance)l                                                                            P
Fina tre   f                                                                                                                                                       Central Administration
OPT Headquarter
I~~~~ 
I~                    ~                                                                                                                                         1
GerlManager                           Internai
inspection
Deputy General Manager
INational Posts andi                                               i    fl3                     3          
NTaIolnmln P  tos an   Finance and Generall       Administraton        Postal and Financial      Telecommunications         Buildings andt           Studies and            National Saving
______________~' _______________.                                                        ___________________________________
Te Scumuicto n          Accounting             an   esne                  Services            Teeomnctos                   Transport                Planng                   Bankt
Regional Directorates
of Posts and Telecomrnunications
Drectorate             Directorate              Directorate             Directorate 
Southern Region         Eastern Region          Central Region          Northern Region         Western Region
Direct Responsibility
- ~   - Control and Indirect Responsibility                                                                                                                                 Worid Bank-22657



- 45 -
KSNEP; 13
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
(CFAF million)
----------Actual ----------    --------------------- Forecast ---------------------
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
INCOME STATEMENT
________________
TELEPHONE SUBSCRIB    3564    4586    5368    6162    6401    6839    7081    9858   12450   13857   15300
-ADDED                  977    1022       782      794     239      438      242    2777    2592    1407    1443
-INCREASE X               38      29       17       15        4       7        4       39       26      il       10
TELEPHONES             7100    8600   10000   11092   11522   11968   12038   16759   21165   23557   26010
POPULATION             5846    5971    6100    6228    6359    6492    6629    6768    6910    7055    7203
TELEPHONES/100 POP    0.12    0.14    0.16    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.25    0.31    0.33    0.36
TELEX SUBSCRIBERS        138     160      177      210     220      246      276      309     355      400      440
OPERATING REVENUE
FCFA MILLION                                -
TELEPHONE
-RENTAL                   71      99      125      144      157     165      174      212     279      329      364
CALL CHARGES             734    1086    1635    1655    1891    2142    2421    3167    4484    5684    6772
-INSTALLATIONS            12     .36       41       48       12      23       13      144     135       73       75
TOTAL                817    1221    1801    1847    2060    2330    2608    3523    4897    6086    7212
TELEGRAPH                 85      52       65       75      77       80       82       84      87       90       92
TELEX                    126     222      223      284     312      344      378      416     457      503      553
LEASED CIRCUITS           56      83       91      114     125      138      152      167     184      202      222
-OPT WORKS A.O.          116     153      220      214     223      238      248      344     434      481      530
TARIFF INCREASE            O       O        O        O        O       0      531      695     931    1133    1325
TOTAL              1200    1731    2400    2534    2798    3129    3998    5229    6990    8495    9934
OPERATING EXPENSES
__________________
SALARIES                 395     425      689      811      896     986    1084    1193    1312    1443    1587
MATERIALS                 18     216      192      202      215     198      235      303     415      535      644
TRANSPORT & ADM           21      39       58      137      100     115      132      152      175     201      231
OTHER                    140     160      230      148      225     259      298      342     394      453      520
INTN'L TRAFFIC            72     176      422      228     350      402      463      532     612      704      810
DEPRECIATION             220     255      438      501     472      544      588      758    1039    1338    1609
TAXES I DUTIES            54     103       99      122      140     161      186      213      245     282      325
TOTAL                920    1374    2128    2149    2398    2665    2986    3494    4192    4956    5726
OPERATING INCOME         280     357      272      385      400     464    1012    1735    2798    3539    4208
OTHER INCOME NET          34      60      132      138      152     167      184      202      222     244      269
NET INCOME BEF INT       314     417      404      523      552     631    1196    1937    3020    3783    4477
INT CHARGED OP           127     153      136      130     147      206      320      454     601      698      710
NET INCOME               187     264      268      393  .. 405      425      S76    1483    2419    3085    3767
====     =  ====x  x==:=== ==x=  = ====st==    w====a   =r= ======  =====  -- 3-.!
RATE OF RETURN
-BEFORE TAXES           16.5    13.5      7.8      9.7      9,4     9.8    16.0    19.6    21.2    20.4    20.4
-AFTER TAXES            13.8    10.5      5.7      7.4      6.9     7.3    13.5    17.4    19.5    18.9    18.9
OPERATING RATIO Z         77      79       89       85       86 .    85       75       67       60      58       53
REV/GROSS PLANT         0,37    0,35    0.36    0.34    0.33    0.32    0.34    0.34    0.34    0,32    0.31
DEPREC/GRDSS PLANT    6.72    5.23    6.66    6.70    5,50    5.50    5.00    5.00    5,00    5.00    5.00
TELEPH REV/SUBS          266     300      362      320-    328      352      375      416      439     463      495
TARIFF INCREASEX           O       0        O        O        O       0       15       15       15      15       15



- 46 -
AMNNX 14
UPPER VOLTA
OFFTCE DES POSTES ET TELCOM MDICATIONS (OPT)
Funde Flow Statements
(CIAF million)
--- Actua1 ----------        --------------------- Foracat ---------------
1977     1979      1979     1980      1981     1992      1983      1984     1985      1986     1987  1986-47
TOTAL
FCFA MILLION
INTERNAL SOURCES
-NET INCOME BEF IN         314      417       404      523       552       631     1196      1937     3020      3783     4477    15044
-DEPRECIATION              220      255       438      501       472       544      588       758     1039      1338     1609      5876
-OTHER                     -31      -16       -48     -120         0         0         O        O         0        0         o     .0
TOTAL                  503       656      794       904     1024      1175      1784     2695      4059     5121      6086    20920
OPERATIONAL RE-
OUIREMENTS
-WORKING CAPITAL           245      351      -219      594        -1     -588       139       323      431       382       322     1009
-DEST SERVICE              200      353       332      319       371       469      840       949     1016      1431     1778      6493
TOTAL                   445      704      113       913       370     -119       979     1272      1447     1813      2100     7492
NET AVAILABLE
FROM OPERATIONS            58      -48       681       -9       654     1294       805     1423      2612      3308     3986    13428
CONSTRUCTION
REGUIREMENTS
-ONGOING WORKS              92     1060      1066      614       985       400      400       315      350       395       450     2310
-PROPOSED PROJECT            O         O        O         O       80      1980     2665      3079     2256       863         0   10843
-IDA-431                   264       66         5         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0
-EARTH STATION             877         0        0      300        75         0         0        0         0        0       500      500
-PANAFTEL  (CIDA)            O         O        O       100      400      1000         0        0         0        0         0     1000
-LIPTAKO-GOURMA              O         O        0         O        O       320      240       360      320       120         0     1360
-FUTURE PROGR                O         O        O         O         O        O         0      130     1600      3500     4000      9230
L/T INVESTMENTS             O       15        54        19       12        12       14        16       17        19        20       98
TOTAL                 1233      1141     1125      1033     1552      3712     3319      3900      i543     4897      4970    25341
BALANCE TO FINANCE        1175     1189       444     1042       998     2418      2514      2477     1931      1589      984    11913
FINANCED DY:
-IDA 431                   228       61         4         0        0         0        0         0         °        O         °        °
-CCCE 1975                  61         O        O         O        O         O        O         O         O        O         O        O
-EXIMBANK                  526         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
-CNDI 0027                   0         0        0      378       122         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
-PROPOSED IDA                O         0        0         0       76       437      837      1080     1012       797      311      4474
-PROPOSED CCCE               O         O        O         O        0       578      765      1120      740       297         0    3500
-PCA SYSTEM                360      560       440      427         0         O0        O        O         O        O         O        O
OTHER DORROWINGS             O         O        O         O        O         0      181       277      179       495      673      1805
-GRANTS (CANADA)             O         O        O      100       400     1000          0        0         0        0         0     1000
-GRANTS (HOLLAND)            O      548         0       137      300       403      731         0         0        0         0    1134
-GRANTS iGOVT UPV)           O        20        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        °
TOTAL                 1175      1189      444      1042      898      2419     2514      2477      1931     1589       984    11913
DEDT SERVICE COVER         2.5      1.9       2.4      2.8       2.B       2.5      2.1       2.8      4.0       3.6      3.4       3.2



-47-                                                  ANNEX 15
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
Balance Sheets
(CFAF million)
------ Actual   --------    ------ -------------Forecast ---------------------
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    198t    1987
FCFA MILLION
__________________
hSSET5
PLANT IN OPERATION    3651    6104    7053    7900    9271   10519   12988   17346   24198   29303   35061
LESS: DEPRECIATION    1359    1587    2025    2518    3141    3873    4693    5733    7116    8881   11023
____-     --- --   -- -- -   _____ .    __ __ ---- _ --- --   ------   -------   _____ _ --- __ ------   ----   _ _____._
NET PLANT               2292    4517    5028    5382    6130    6646    8295   11613   17082   20422   240381
WORK IN PROGRESS        2015     65ii     /37      897    1540    4548    6015    6320    5035    6260    7210
L/T INVESTMENTS           28      43       97      116      128     i40      154      170      187     206      22.'
CURRENT ASSETS
-CASH AND BANKS
OPERATIONAL REOU         7       0       17        0        0      67      149      263      315     370      427
ACC REC (PRIVATE)        233     351      551      620      644     626      700      915    1223    1487    1738
ACC REC (PUBLIC)         287     5S5      992      847      727     156      200      261      349     425      497
-INVENTORIES             324     257      216      385      258     297      353      455      623     803      965
-OTHER I                  52     102       69       63      380     387      3S5      403      412     423      434
TOTAL                903    1265    1845    1915    2009    15' 3    1797    2297    2922    3508    4061
TOTAL               5238    6475    7707    8310    9807   12867   16261   20400   25226   30396   35535
LIABILITIES
___________
EQUITY
-CAPITAL                 768     768      768      768      768     768      768      768      768     768      768
-RETAINED EARNINGS       669     578      584      706    1111    1536    2412    3895    6314    9399   13166
-GRANTS                  137     681      596      747    1447    2850    3581    3581    3581    3581    3581
-CAPITAL RESERVE         115     467      731      969      969     969      969      969      969     969      969
-REVALUATION RESER         O        O       O        0      323     691    1090    1587    2284    3309    4534
TOTAL              1689    2494    2679    3190    4618    6814    8820   10800   13916   18026   23018
LONG TERM DEBT -        3141    3562    3810    4426    4400    5152    6415    8397    9913   10769   10085
CUR'NT LIABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE        368     368    1150       615      707      813     935    1076    1237    1423    1636
CONSUMER DEPOSITS         40       51      68       79       82       88      91      127      160      178     19'6
TOTAL                 408     419    1218       694     789      901    1026    1203    1397    1601    1832
TOTAL               5238    6475    7707    8310    9807   12867   16261   20400   25226   30396   35535
DEBT/DEBT & EQUITY        65       59      59       58       49       43      42       44       42       37      32
DEST/EOUITY              1.9      1.4     1.4      1.4      1.0     0.8      0.7      0.8      0.7      0.6     0.5
CURRENT RATIO            2.2     3.0      1.5      2.8      2.5      1.7     1.8      1.9      2.1      2.2     2,2
RECEIVABLES/REV Z         19       20      23       24       23       20       18      17       17       18       17
RECEIVABLES-DAYS          70       73      83       88       83       72      63       63       63       63      63
NET/GkOSS PLANT Z         63       74      71       68       66       63      64       67       71       70       69
FLANT INCREASE X          26       67      16       12       il        7       17      28       34       15       14
ANNUAL REVALUATION       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      6,0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0
1/  Withdrawals from the PCAS are shown as part of OPT's total long term debt (para. 5.04).



- 48 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions on the Financial Projections, 1981-1987
1.   INCOME STATEMENTS
Increase in Domestic Prices: 10% per annum.
Call Charges: average number of DELs in service times average revenue
per DEL (+ 7.5% p.a. over the period 1981-1988). This takes into
account a decrease in the share of government in total operating
revenues.
Rentals, Installations: constant fees times the average number of DELs
and additional DEL's respectively.
Telegraph: + 3% per annum (growth rate over the period 1974-1980).
Telex: + 10% per annum.
Leased Circuits: + 10% per annum.
OPT works: increase corresponding to increase in number of DELs in
service .
Salaries: constant number of staff; salary per employee increasing at
10% per annum.
Material:  2% of average gross fixed assets in service.
Transport & Administration: + 15% per annum.
Other: + 15% per annum.
Depreciation: 5% per annum in 1982 and thereafter.
Taxes and Duties: + 15% per annum.
Other Income: increasing at 10% per annum.



- 49 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2
2.   BALANCE SHEETS
Annual Revaluation: 6% per year starting in 1981 (para. 5.07).
Assets Moved into Service (in CFAF million and excluding interest during
construction):
1981  :  897              1985  : 4,917
1982  :  692              1986  : 3,653
1983  : 1,838             1987  : 4,000
1984  : 4,079             1988  : 4,500
Long-Term Investments: + 10% per annum (Intelsat and Banque
Internationale des Voltas).
Cash and Banks: percentage of operating expenses, increasing from 0%
(1981) to 5% (1981) and 10% (1982-1987).
Accounts Receivable (Private Sector): decreasing from 23% of total
operating revenues prior to tariff increase in 1981 to 20% in 1982 and
17.5% in the years after (equivalent to about two months of billing).
Accounts Receivable (Public Sector): following settlement of Government
arrears in 1982 this item is expected to remain constant at about two
months of billing, assuming a 10% annual increase in Government
consumption.
Inventories:  3% of average gross fixed assets in service.
Other: + 10% per annum (plus a constant amount of CFAF 311 million
representing a temporary surplus in 1981).
Accounts Payable: + 15% per annum.
Subscriber Deposits:  increase pari passu with the increase in
subscriber lines.
Long-term Debt: includes CFAF 2,427 million (end 1981) of withdrawals
from the PCAS. Amount decreases in accordance with agreed repayment
schedule (para. 4.12).



ANNEX 17
Page 1
lJPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Third Telecommunications Project
Management Improvement Program
Terms Of Reference
A.        Assistance and Trai ing frie  AccourttingD   artmn
1.        The expert shouid be a qualified accountant, preferably with
prior experience in PTT organe.zatl.ons.  Length of service:  36 months
(October 1, 1982 to September 30, 1985).
2.         The tasks of the expert shouid be performed in collaboration with
accounting staff of the office and in liaison with the computer programming
expert. They are the followîng:
(a)  Review existing accounting systems and procedures and
the applications thereof in the Office. Determine
principal shortcor,iings, notably in the application of
procedures, and prepare program of action for
overcoming existing deficiencies;
(b) Review the structure of the Agence Comptable and
Comptabilite TelephLOng and recommend changes in
the present set-up where necessary for the efficient
operation of the Agence Comptable;
(c) Following review and agreement with the management of
the Office on the recommendations resulting from the
reviews described in (a) and (b) above, proceed with
implementation thereof;
(d) Prepare an accounting staff training program and
implement this program with emphasis on the practical
requirements of the Agence Comptable;
(e) The expert should pay particular attention to, and
concentrate a substantial part of his time on, the
following items. (i) application of cost and accrual
accounting concepts; (ii) inventory valuation and
control and the presentation of inventory related
items in the finartciai statements; (iii) timely
closing of OPT's books at the end of the T'journee
complementaire' and preparation of trial balances to



- 51 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2
enable completion of the external audit report within
six months after the end of each fiscal year; and
(iv) implementation of such recommendations as shall
be contained in the audit reports and where
reasonable and necessary; and
(f) Liaise closely with the data processing expert in
order to determine the extent and modalities of using
available computer equipment for accounting purposes,
in order to facilitate implementation of a management
information system and to expedite preparation of
financial statements.
B.       Assistance and Training for the Data Processing Service
1.       The expert should have broad experience in computer programming,
operation and basic maintenance. Length of service: twelve months
(October 1, 1982 to September 30, 1983).
2.       The expert would have the following tasks:
(a)  Introduce, with the cooperation of the staff of the
Office, a computerized monthly billing and collection
system. Collection records should contain the amount of
arrears by subscriber, accounts receivable aging schedules
and other information necessary for the efficient
operation of an entity with a commercial character. Bills
should show the amount payable plus the amount of arrears
and an indication of the date at which service would be
cut off;
(b)  In liaison with the accounting expert and the Agent
Comptable, design the programs necessary for maintaining
computerized records for the accounting system. This
should include, but not be limited to, items such as:
fixed assets register, inventory, borrowings and debt
service, payroll and billing;
(c)  Determine the information requirements of the management
of the Office and propose the indicators to be
incorporated in a management information system, with
reports to be produced on a monthly, quarterly and annual
basis. Prepare the programs and implement the management
information system. This system should, as a minimum,
incorporate the performance indicators and project
progress report indicators as agreed with the Association;
(d)  Prepare and implement, in consultation with management, a
budget preparation and monitoring system. Such a system
should take into account the need to separate cost centers



- 52 -                               ANNEX 17
Page 3
between telecommunications, postal, financial and common
services and to give each manager primary responsibility
for budget preparation and control;
(e) Liaise with the personnel expert in the preparation of
computerized personnel records; and
(f) Provide training for data processing staff in computer
operating and maintenance procedures.
C.       Assistance for the Postal/Financial branch
1.       The expert should have broad experience in the management and
operation of postal/financial services, with special emphasis on operating
efficiency and commercial aspects.  Length of service:  24 months (January
1, 1983 - December 31, 1984).
2.       The expert would have the following tasks:
(a)  Identify the areas where Office's service to the public
can be improved in the short term with existing
resources. The principal goal would be to improve service
and regain the public's confidence in the postal system
without increasing staff and limiting increases in other
operating expenses as much as possible;
(b) Following review and acceptance by the Office of the
expert's recommendations, the expert would assist the
Directeur des Services Postaux et Financiers in the
implementation of these recommendations and prepare
monthly reports on the progress made in this field;
(c) Identify the areas for improved and expanded postal
service in the medium term and the resources required in
terms of manpower and capital. The primary aim shouid be
to provide such services with existing staff, particularly
through transfers of staff among branches;
(d)  Examine the profitability of the various sections of the
postal/financial branch and suggest ways to improve the
same. Particular attention should be pald to the Officels
remuneration for services provided for the Postal Checking
Account System, the National Savings Bank, and the Poste
Automobile Rurale. Establish the cost of these services
to the Office and the proper remuneration methods and
levels; and
(e) In order to properly execute his task, the expert should
visit most of the Officels establishments in Upper Volta
and follow up on his various proposals with regular
reports to management.



- 53 
Page 4Ï
D.       Review of Staffing Needs and Personnel Management
1.       The expert shouid have broad experience in public administration,
particularly in postal and telecommunications organizations, and a solid
background in personnel management. Length of mission: six months (3uly 1,
1983 - December 31, 1983).
2.       The expert shouid perform the following tasks:
(a) On the basis of the organization of the Office, prepare
job descriptions for each organizational unit;
(b)  Determine the proper staffing levels for each department
and section and recommend transfers of staff between
branches or regions and staff reductions where
appropriate. The recommendations should be made keeping
in mind that staff productivity, morale, and the financial
performance of the major branches of the entity need to be
improved;
(c) Review personnel management procedures with emphasis on
recruitment, transfer and termination procedures and
suggest the improvements needed in this area, in
particular a method for personnel planning;
(d) Cooperate with the data processing expert in the
preparation of computerized personnel records providing
management, inter alia, with monthly personnel statistics
by service branch (telecommunications, postal, financial
and common services) and by category of staff; and
(e) Prepare a report on these various tasks and formulate
recommendations on the measures to be taken.
E.        Study of Tariff Structure
1.        The study will require the services of an economist, a financial
analyst and an engineer, each with experience in telecommunications, and
supplemented by the necessary staff to assist with survey work. Length of
mission: six months (July 1 - December 31, 1982).
2.        The purpose of the study is to develop the principles which
should guide formulation of an appropriate structure and level of tariffs
for telecommunications services in Upper Volta, and to apply these
principles in the form of a recommended structure of tariffs to be applied
as of January 1, 1983.
3.        The basic approach to establishing an appropriate tariff
structure will be that of marginal cost pricing, with the constraint that
overall revenue generation must be sufficient to ensure financial viability
of the telecommunications branch. Marginal cost may take two forms:



54 -                          ANNEX 17
Page 5
(a) cost to the telecommunications branch of providing
additional supply; and
(b) cost to existing or potential users of doing without the
service, where capacity is insufficient to meet the
demand.
Thus, the study has to have both a cost accounting dimension and a demand
assessment dimension, and has to include a financial analysis to assess the
adequacy of revenues generated from the point of view of financial viability.
Cost Accounting
4.        The purpose of this part of the work is to identify the marginal
costs of the principal different telecommunications services offered,
distinguishing between Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, major regional towns
and country areas:
(a) provision of connections;
(b) local communications;
(c)  long distance communications;
(d) international communications.
Such costs will be specified in 1982 values.
5.        The basis of the calculations will be:
(a)  financial accounts of the entity;
(b) operating records of the entity;
(c) spot-checks to establish on a sample basis the marginal
costs of particular services; and
(d) relevant data available from other telecommunications
administrations.
Demand Assessment
6.        The purpose of this part of the work is to assess the strengths of
demand for each of the different services offered by the telecommunications
branch, and the sensitivity of that demand to the prices Wiich might be
charged. This is needed for two purposes: (a) in order to estimate the cost
to users (or potential users) of doing without the service, for cases where
it is not possible to meet demand fully; and (b) in order to identify those
services which are in least elastic demand (i.e., demand will be least



- 55 -                              ANNEX 17
Page 6
affected by price changes), so that they should be made to bear the major
part of any mark-up necessary to cover overhead and enable the
telecommunications branch to attain overal financial viability.
7.        This work will require thorough review of existing records on
applications for service, calling rates, ineffective calls, etc., followed
by surveys of a sample of existing and potential users in order to deepen
knowledge of the strength of demand for the different services and of the
amounts that customers wouid be prepared to pay for the different services
(or that they would suffer as losses, or extra expenses, if the services were
not available).
Social and Developmental Considerations
8.        Attention must be given, in connection with the demand assessment,
to the possible need to charge certain incipient users, e.g., services in
distant rural areas, or public call offices, at rates below those that would
be indicated by marginal cost and financial viability considerations, as a
means to stimulate socially highly desirable use. Certain limited
cross-subsidization of this nature may be a worthwhile means of bringing
telecommunications facilities within the reach of development centers and
poorer people who would otherwise be excluded.
Financial _Analysis
9.        The approximate tariffs for the different services (some of which
may turn out to need to be cost-based while others may need to be more
demand-based) must then be multiplied by estimated levels of service
requirements to assess total revenues for 1983 and the following five years.
These should be compared with updated projections of costs, to assess the
future financial status of the enterprise.
10.       Iterations may be required in order to produce a structure of
tariffs that is consistent with financial viability.
Final Results
11.       The results of the study should be a recommended set of prices for
the various services, with alternative possibilities where appropriate, and
projections of the effect of application of such prices on the entity's
revenues and financial performance. Recommendations should also be made as
to how the tariffs should be adjusted over time in light of changes in costs
including inflation.



-56-                                ANNEX 17
Page 7
F.        Timetable
lybz      -1Y81       I984-
Experts:
1.  Accounting Department          OCT                   SEP
2.  Data Processing                       MAR       FEB
3.  Postal Branch                       JAN               DEC
4.  Personnel                             JUL  DEC
5.  Tariffs                     JUL DEC



- 57 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
Documents Available in Project File
A. General
A.1 Ordinance No. 67 of the President of the Republic of Upper Volta
creating OPT.
A.2 Decree No. 68-135 of the President of the Republic of Upper Volta
regarding the organization, operation and management of OPT.
B. Documents and Studies Relating to the Project
,l.1 SOFRECOM study regarding the development of demand, status of
the existing telecommunications network and evaluation of future
requirements up to 1985.
B.2 Technical specifications prepared by SOFRECOM for switching
equipment in Ouagadougou, Bobo Dioulasso, Gaoua, Diebougou,
Tenkodoyo, Koupela, Dedougou and Tougan.
B.3 Cost estimates prepared by SOFRECOM regarding the local networks in
the above cities.
B.4  Feasibility study prepared by the consulting firm Telesuisse for the
transmission links.
B.4.1  Report No. 1 : Basic documentation.
B.4.2  Report No. 2 : Technical study and choice of systems.
B.4.3  Report No. 3 : Planning and dimensioning of the transmission
links.
B.4.4  Report No. 4 : Cost evaluation;  Implementation schedule;
Economic comparison of various technical
solutions; Least cost solution.
B.5  Study made by Telesuisse for the Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso
local networks.
B.5.1  Report No. 1   Actual status, development forecasts, distribution
areas.  Annexes: Sheet maps of the distribution
areas.



- 58 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2
B.5.2  Report No. 2 : Junction cables.  Transmission plan.  Local
networks.
B.5.3  Report No. 3 : Physical project, civil works, underground and
aerial cables.
B.5.4  Report No. 4 : Costs estimates.  Economic study.  Staff training.
B.6  Program for refreshing courses for OPT's telecommunications staff.
B.7 Summary of the activities and actual (1980) status of OPT's
Telecommunications Department.
B.8 Costs estimates for the project engineering.
B.9 OPT's budget for 1981.
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1 OPT's debt service schedule.
D. Other Information Used in the Project
Nil.



IBRD 15669R
-   T' --' ,                                                                                                                                       '- ,    _;   -.                     r /                                 MARRh `982
Err.sr.rr  TIrir Pror act                                                                                        ,.)
6E0               Number hSubsrrrbers                                                                    .  --
*                 Anlomn a FahrIagc-s                                                                                                                    C,mr                                            -~ <ere(Vi
-ea Ove-lsad [es                                                              .                                                                   N' N                           J            A F R ' A        )         |
Lcyrq D st-ce Cabl                       C            - ",'                               ES                                                E         ()
i? Earril SaelIlre Seall                 f                                               rin,  I   2  Fe9ra                                                                  w5" MN,5z1eJe8il r t\//
-*-   Internal cnul boufSarles                                                      rOngeur          Sau aqra   ,n rrrOo orn  fmmrl0
Satelle.J6 `)8lt1goy
rt        ,                 3                Kiriar                                            1'ts 5raDgc vf    
;          /               <<    q~~~~~~~~Kirora               Onchrey                                >-\ `-y                                                                           r. .e  E                          i
El-                                           r-
, E~~~Drebosse                                           xi-,  ouc\C-/\ 't  GER
-jj  \                            / \ougan                  2<yko          Tem
*. ,^<fe e.   j             >N  Dfdous;u            \É            /                    É\i///<Ni\ erc  'aRe. rse
v#E<>f,5'1 tJF                                                              "-~  fJ               RoaQ  //     cr   \\Xl-                          *\
Eî-n  \!l%'k           \t Fberaiar *
!ensie                       ``\* r  caro
40   I    -eDAyr ------ -- a [                                                                                                                                             laBo NgS
<j                                                       lossde*. ;. ;i                                                                                              Nq OnoaqayeVfi             j       BF                >
s'   D,OUIASEO\ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~vn¾..  «cEose                                                                               ù~~~~~~~~~~~asqrraRama         Q.-'..~~..........
(   .jÆ       \ \                l          /                       G         h         A        1`2       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .......   ....
t                       .*yir                                                                                                                                                                                                                   'Ir Ar "  A  N  .
s_~Çndr                        «c S.rréanneogaa           N       r          (au                                                                                         I< G
-> /                                                            ,                                                                         UPPER VOLTA
:fl.                                 ~~~~~Kompri `                                    OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                                                                              o
t                    j,r~'                         ht Barre?                                          THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJEOT
-liv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
B O   R  Y                      C C>0ASD           T             N
_ _ _''                 `_                        _ _ _                                          s                 _        _     _    _     __                    _   _      _ _             _     _ _         



