CREDIT NUMBER    UW   V
DOCUM=1TS
Project Agreement
(Third Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DE HAUTE VOLTA
Dated    6                         , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 8    UV
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        -1 -                 , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS OCIATION   (hereinafter called the
Association) and OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMNUNICATIONS DE HAUTE
VOLTA (hereinafter called the Office).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Upper Volta (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,900,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that the Office agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Office, the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to the Office on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Office, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Office shall carry out the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement,


﻿-2-
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, and engineering and public
utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Office in the evaluation
of bids, the supervision of construction, installation and erec-
tion and in carrying out Parts F and G of the Project, the Ofrice
shall employ engineering and management consultants or experts
whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in
accordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Office undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Office to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Office shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Office shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Office: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿-3-
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Office of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Office
and the Association, the Office shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Office
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(e) The Office shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of the Office and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.06. The Office shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Office shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Office shall at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations


﻿-4-
under this Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Office shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Office of its obligations
under this Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Office shall carry out the Management
Improvement Program included in Part G of the Project under terms
of reference and pursuant to a time schedule agreed with the
Association and shall complete the review of its tariff structure
included in such Part G by December 31, 1982.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Office
Section 3.01. The Office shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. (a) The Office shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position and carry on its tele-
communications operations, in accordance with sound business,
financial and public utility practices and under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management.
(b) December 31, 1982, the Office shall make such organiza-
tion changes as shall be satisfactory to the Association, includ-
ing providing for separate Deputy Directors General for telecom-
munication operations and for postal and financial operations and
shall fill such positions with qualified and experienced person-
nel.
(c) Before appointing a Director General, Deputy Director
General, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Engineer for its tele-
communications operations, the Office shall consult with the
Association and give due consideration to the views expressed by
the Association with respect to the qualifications and experience
of the persons proposed for such appointment.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.03. Prior to the completion of the Project, the
Office shall not increase the number of its permanent staff above
the level existing at tha end of 1980 nor increase in real terms
its budget for temporary staff above that for 1981.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Office shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Office shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Office and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Office shall repay to the Postal Checking
Account System in equal annual instalments over the period from
1983 to 1992 the amount of CFAF 2,427,000,000 used by the telecom-
munications branch since 1975 and no funds from such system shall
be used by the office prior to the completion of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Office shall not, without the prior
approval of the Association, undertake in any one year any capital
investment outside its 1982-1986 investment program exceeding the
equivalent of $1,000,000.
Section 4.05. Except as the Assocation shall otherwise agree,
the Office shall take such steps as shall be necessary, including
the maintenance of a telecommunications rate and tariffs struc-
ture to provide to the Office revenue sufficient to produce an
annual rate of return of not less than 13% as from January 1,
1983 and 15% as from January 1, 1984. For the purposes of this
Section:


﻿- 6 -
(a) The annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect
of each fiscal year by using as the denominator the average of the
current values of net fixed telecommunications assets operated by
the Office at the beginning and at the end of the year in question
and, as the numerator, the operating income of the Office from its
telecommunications operations for that year.
(b) The term "current value of net fixed telecommunications
assets" means the gross value of fixed telecommunications assetr
as revalued from time to time, less accumulated depreciation,
based on appropriate valuation and depreciation methods satis-
factory to the Associatioh.
(c) The term "operating income" means the difference between
operating revenue and operating expenses.
(d) The term "operating revenue" means all revenue from
telecommunications operations and other rvevie incidental
thereto.
(e) The term "operating expenses" means all direct costs
of operation by the Office of its telecommunications facilities,
including a reasonable portion of overhead costs, adequate main-
tenance expenses, and an adequate provision for depreciation and
taxes, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.06. (a) Until completion of the Project the Office
shall not make any remittances to the Borrower's Treasury and
shall not use surplus telecommunications funds for other purposes
until adequate provision has been made for sufficient funds to
meet the operational, debt service, working capital and expansion
requirements of the Office's telecommunications services.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
funds payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(ii) The term "debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred and includes the amount
repayable to the Postal Checking Account System
under Section 4.03. above.


﻿- 7 -
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree the Office shall not incur any debt for its telecommunica-
tions operations, other than pursuant to the SubsLdiary Loan
Agreement, unless its net revenue from such operations for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for any later
twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
revenue is the greater, shall be at least one and one-half times
the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal
year on all debt incurred by the Office for such operations and
of the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" has the same meaning as under
Section 4.06 (b) (ii) hereof.
(ii) The term "incur" with reference to any debt in-
cludes any modification of the terms of payment of
such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on
the date of execution and delivery of a contract,
loan agreement or other instrument providing for
such debt.
(iii) "Net revenue from telecommunications operations"
means gross revenue from all such sources, adjusted
to take account of rates for telecommunications
services in effect at the time of incurrence of
debt even though such rates were not in effect
during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenue relates, less all operating and
administrative expenses, including provision for
taxes, if any, and transfers of net profits to the
Borrower, if any, but before provision for depre-
ciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term "debt service requirement" has the same
meaning as under Section 4.06 (b) (i) hereof.
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such


﻿8
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable by the Office for the purposes of
servicing such debt or, if such other currency is
not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Association.
(vi) "Operating expenses" means all operating and
administrative expenses, including provision for
taxes, if any, but before provision for deprecia-
tion and interest and other charges on debt.
(c) The provisions of this Section supersede any prior
agreement between the Association and the Office on the limitation
of the debt of the Office.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Office thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-one years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Office of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, talex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Office:
Office des Postes et
Telecommunications
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:                      Telex:
DIRPOSTEL                             5200 UV
Quagadougou
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Office or by the Office on behalf


﻿- 10 -
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement may be
taken or executed by its Director General or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and the Office shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DE HAUTE VOLTA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procuremnt
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Office shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. The Office shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goo.ds to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) cLstoms duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Office may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Office, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Vehicles and tools which, after grouping for the purpose of
inviting bids, form lots of a value estimated to be less than
$40,000 equivalent, may be procured following the competitive
bidding procedures of the Borrower.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 13 -
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Office shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Office
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Office and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, the Office shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with


﻿- 14 -
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Office and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Office shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Office
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of  dV      ,
198 2
FOR SECRETARY


