r"IAL
OMENT s        CREDIT NUMBER        UV
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Telecomnications Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER        UV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     (          , 1982, between
the REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA   ereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Office des
Postes et T6lecommunications de Haute Volta (hereinafter called
the Office) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to such office the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower has received from the French Caisse Cen-
trale de Cooperation Economique (hereinafter called CCCE) and
from the Kingdom of Netherlands, a loan and a grant in respective
amounts of 70,000,000 French francs and 8,650,000 Dutch Florins
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in agreements entered into between the Borrower and the
CCCE and the Netherlands, respectively; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Office;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions   Atpit 1bl  t   Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective moanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Office of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Office pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 14, 1979 and
March 8, 1979 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the te:-ms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 14,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and


﻿-3-
pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay any unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of such advance shall be auto-
matically cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled; and
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrouar shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1992, and ending December 15,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)


﻿-4-
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 2.10. The Office is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Office to carry out the
Project and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the other
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and ot.ter resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Office
to perform such obligations, ane shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of the proceeds
of the Credit to the Office under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Office under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
including a rate of interest of 11.6% per annum and a term of
twenty years including five years' grace.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and of the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Any funds made available to the Office by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 shall be accorded on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. By June 30, 1983 the Borrower shall reorganize
the Office so as to ensure efficient coordination and opLizum
separation of responsibilities between the departments and divi-
sions of its general management and of its regional offices. The
qualifications and the duties and responsibilities of the man-
agers of the principal organizational units shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrowe shall reimburse the Postal Check-
ing Account System on behalf of the Office the amount of
CFAF 2.189 million, representing the amount utilized by the
postal branch for its capital and operating expenditures since
1975, in equal annual installments over a period not exceeding
ten years.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall provide to the Office
promptly as needed any funds required to cover any deficits of
its postal branch.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall pay in full arrears for
telecommunications services by December 31, 1982 and shall there-
after ensure that all charges incurred by its agencies for tele-
communications services be paid to the Office within four months
of the billing dates.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall assume the financing of at
least two thirds of the ann .1 investment costs of the Liptako-
Gourma telecommunications project and shall assume as of the
beginn g of 1981 the service of the loans from the African
Development Bank and the Nigeria Trust Fund incurred for such
proJect.
Section 3.08. Before appointing a Director General, Deputy
Director General or a head of the telecommunications, postal or
financial budget and accounting divisions of the Office, the Bor-
rower shall consult with the Association and give due considera-
tion to the views expressed by the Association with respect to
the qualifications and experience of the person proposed for such
appointment.
Section 3.09. In order to permit the Office to respect the
provisions of Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement, the Borrower
shall take such steps as shall be necessary to establish the
required tariff levels and adopt the required tariff structure by
January 1, 1983, taking into account the results of the tariff
study included in Part G of the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to iara-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower or of the Office to
withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan made to
the Borrower or to the Office for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower or of the Office to perform
any of their obligations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bo,rowsr or the Office
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and of the Office
under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Corditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. .he following events are specified aq addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the DeveloDnenL Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b3 of tne General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Office; and


﻿-7-
(b) the Association has been notified by the CCCE that all
conditions precedent to the initial disbursement to the Borrower
or the Office of the proceeds of its financial assistance to the
Project have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association;
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Office, and is legally binding upon the Office in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Office and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Office in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date                   /%eZ6-4  2-$< //i2-  is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Ex4icept as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Sectin 11.02 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re des Finances
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCE                        MIFICOM
Ouagadougou                        5256


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works,                   1,920,000      60%
Part D 1 of
the Project
(2) Materials,                     7,580,000      100% of foreign
equipment and                                 expenditures
installation,
Parts C 2, D 1,
E 2 and E 3
of the Project
(3) Vehicles and                     350,000      100% of foreign
tools                                        expenditures
and 75% of
local ex-
penditures
(4) Consultants'                   1,570,000      100% of foreign
and experts'                                  expenditures
services,
fellowships,
Parts F and
G of the
Project
(5) Refunding of                     440,000      Amount due
Project Prepara-                              under Section
tion                                          2.02 (b)
advance
(6) Unallocated                    3,040,000
TOTAL              14,900,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category 5 is
insufficient or in excess of the amount required, adjustment will
be made by an allocation from or to Category 6.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the cur-
rency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Bor-
rower is also that of another country from the territory of which
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expendi-
tures"; and
(b) "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the terri-
tory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are Then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)


﻿- 11 -
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of the investment program of the Office
for the period 1982-1986, which is designed to meet about 75% of
the demand for telecommunications services in the main cities and
to extend reliable services into the Western, Southwestern and
Eastern provinces.
The Project specifically includes the following:
Part A:
Installation of about 3,600 lines of local automatic tele-
phone exchange equipment in Ouagadougou and about 4,000 lines
in Bobo Dioulasso;
Part B:
Installation of containerized telephone exchanges of about
200 lines each in the towns of Dedougou, Diebougou, Gaoua,
Koupela, Tenkodogo and Tougan;
Part C:
(1) Extension of the national automatic transit exchange in
Ouagadougou and (2) installation of central automatic message
accounting equipment for both long distance and international
traffic;
Part D:
Construction of ducts and installation of subscriber cables
and distribution cabinets (1) in the urban local networks of
Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso and (2) in the provincial towns
named in Part B above;
Part E:
Construction of the following transmission routes:
(1) Ouagadougou-Dedougou;
(2) D&dougou-Bobo Dioulasso; and


﻿-13-
(3) Bobo Dioulasso-Di6bougou-Gaoua;
Part F:
On-the-job training of technical staff of the Office and
improving the organization and procedures applicable to its
maintenance and repair services; and
Part G:
Carrying out by the Office of a Management Improvement
Program, including training of accounting and of data-processing
staff, and reviews of its staffing needs and of its tariff
structure.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1986.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of nda
198
FOR SECRETARY


