fICIAL
DOCUMENTS41
GRANT NUMBER H311-WSO
CREDIT NUMBER3848-WSO
Project Agreement
(Addition 1 Financing for the Second Infrastructure Asset Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
And
LAND TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
Dated March 6, 2012


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
Agreement dated March 6, 2012, entered into between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("Association") and LAND TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
("Project Implementing Entity") ("Project Agreement") in connection with the Financing
Agreement ("Financing Agreement") dated August 13, 2007 (as amended) between the
Independent State of Samoa ("Recipient) and the Association. The Association and the Project
Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
2.01.  The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project
and the Program. To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts B
and D of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for its Respective Parts of the Project.
2.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project
Implementing Entity shall carry out its Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - TERMINATION
3.01.  For purposes of Section 8.05 (c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
4.01.  The Project Implementing Entity's Representative is its Chief Executive Officer.
4.02.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
2


﻿Cable:              Telex:               Facsimile:
INDEVAS             248423(MCI)          1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
4.03.  The Project Implementing Entity's Address is:
Land Transport Authority
Private Bag
Apia, Samoa
Facsimile:
+685 26739
AGREED at Sydney, Australia, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Authorized Representative
LAND        SPORT AUTHORITY
By _t'
thorized Representative
3
L


﻿SCHEDULE
Execution of the Project Implementing Entity's Respective Part of the Project
Section I.   Implementation Arrangements
A.     Institutional Arrangements
1. The Project Implementing Entity shall retain and, thereafter, maintain, until completion
of the Project, a Project component manager for purposes of managing, monitoring and
coordinating procurement, accounting, disbursement, financial management and other
activities related to the carrying out of its Respective Parts of the Project; all with
qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
B.     Subsidiary Agreement
1 .   The Project Implementing Entity shall enter into the Subsidiary Agreement with the
Recipient and shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Recipient, the Association, and the Bank and the
Association as administrator of the Pacific Region Infrastructure Facility Multi Donor
Trust Fund, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the PRIF Grant Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree in writing, the Recipient shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C.     Anti-Corruption
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that its Respective Parts of the Project are
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D.     Safeguards
1 .   The Project Implementing Entity shall:
(a)    carry out its Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of
the Environmental Policy Framework, the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Framework and the Resettlement Action Plan, as the case may be; and
(b)    not abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend or waive the provisions of the
Environmental Policy Framework, the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Framework and the Resettlement Action Plan without the prior agreement of the
Association.
2.    Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph I of Section II.A of this Schedule I, the
Project Implementing Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Association as part of each
Project Report for its Respective Parts of the Project the progress with respect to the
implementation of the Environmental Policy Framework, the Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Framework and the Resettlement Action Plan, and inform the Association
4


﻿of any event which interferes or which threatens to interfere with the timely
implementation of either one thereof.
3.   In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Environmental Policy
Framework, the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework or the Resettlement
Action Plan, as the case may be, and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
Section II.  Project Monitorin2, Reportin2 and Evaluation
A.     Project Reports
1.    The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its
Respective Parts of the Project and prepare Project Reports for its Respective Parts of the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Financing Agreement, as amended. Each
such Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Recipient not later two (2) weeks after the end of the period covered by
such report for incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the Association of the
overall Project Report.
2.     The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than two (2)
months prior to the Closing Date for incorporation in the report referred to in Section
4.08(c) of the General Conditions all such information as the Recipient or the Association
shall reasonably request for the purposes of such Section.
B.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1.    The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and
financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations,
resources and expenditures related to its Respective Parts of the Project.
2.     The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to above
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association. Each audit of these
financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Project
Implementing Entity. The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of the period.
Section III.  Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project Implementing Entity's Respective Parts of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement.
5


