 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14719

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Samoa
             Project ID: P075523                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Second Infrastructure        Project Costs (US$M):                     22.60               41.22
                         Asset Management
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      12.80               21.13
      Sector Board:      Transport                   Cofinancing (US$M):                                           3.83

           Cofinanciers: Pacific Regional             Board Approval Date :                            12/29/2003
                         Infrastructure Trust                 Closing Date:           12/31/2008       06/30/2014
                         Fund
          Sector(s):     Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (74%); Central government administration
                         (18%); Flood protection (8%)
          Theme(s):      Rural services and infrastructure (25%); Natural disaster management (25%); Administrative
                         and civil service reform (24%); Land administration and management (13%); Environmental
                         policies and institutions (13%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Fang Xu                   Peter Nigel Freeman    Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The project objectives stated in the project Financing Agreement (Grant Number H311, Credit Number 3848-1,
Schedule 1) were to assist the borrower in: (a) enhancing the economic, environmental, and social sustainability of
transport and coastal infrastructure assets; and (b) managing said assets, natural resources, and response to national
emergencies, through an effective partnership with the private sector stakeholders.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) however, indicated (PAD, page 3-4) that the objectives stated in the FA were
the objectives of the Infrastructure Asset Management Program. This specific project, which was the second project,
or the last phase of the Program, had its development objectives as : (a) Key infrastructure assets perform
satisfactorily with sustainable resilience to natural risks. (b) oversight and management of infrastructure, natural
resources, and national emergency are effective and efficient, with participation of private sector and stakeholders.

In accordance with accepted IEG practice, this review assesses the development objective as stated in the Financing
Agreement.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
Five components were included in the original project design:

Component 1: Airport Infrastructure (estimated cost: US$1.06 million, actual cost: US$0.06 million ) Under the
component, Samoa Airport Authority would fund further development of the international and minor airports from its
own resources, including an instrumented landing system. Advisory support to the Authority and establishment of
asset management procedures was to be provided under Component D: Institutional Development in Transport and
Infrastructure.

Component 2: Road and Other Infrastructure (estimated cost US$16.06 million, actual cost: US$30 million ) this
component was to remove bottlenecks and improve road network capacity. Specific activities included:
• Improving traffic capacity and safety, and providing access to remote areas through replacement of four bridges.
• Repair, resurfacing and safety improvements to a primary arterial road over a length of 32 km, and also planning
services for a future western inland route.
• Construction of footpaths and implementing traffic calming measures in the Apia urban area.
• Road network development: Development of an arterial road network and improved capacity in Apia through road
and bridge widening to four lanes on sections of Vaitele Street and Fugalei Street.
• Upgrading (sealing) road access on a section of Fagaloa Bay Road over 3.9 km.
• Construction of coastal protection along about 4,000 linear meters at selected sites in accordance with agreed
criteria.
Component 3: Sustainable Management Infrastructure , Natural Resources and Risks (estimated cost: US$2.23
million, actual cost: US$4.16 million). This component provided technical and advisory assistance to develop
sustainable management of natural resources and the environment, to improve management of emergencies, and to
empower communities and organizations to reduce their risk from natural disasters. Specific activities included:
 Environment, Risk and Resource Management : Technical assistance to: (a) strengthen environmental management
and regulations; (b) adapt the coastal risk management strategy, incorporate climate change risks, and prepare
management plans for 28 Districts; (c) establish systems for monitoring and managing use of natural resources; and
(d) strengthen natural emergency and disaster management, training and equipment for readiness and response, and
financing options.

Land Administration and survey : Technical assistance for: (a) improving the reliability of survey and geographic
information, including upgrading the geodetic survey control, developing technical standard, and training; and (b)
improving the accuracy of land administration information, developing the basis for reform of the registration and titling
system for public and private lands, and preparing related legislation and policy.

Risk Adaptation Measures : Non-structural measures to improve resilience of communities by mitigating natural risks
through small grants.

Component 4: Institutional Development in Transport and Infrastructure (estimated cost: US$1.42 million, actual
cost: US$3.22 million ). This component would strengthen institutional capacity, consolidate and extend reforms of air
and land transport with the delivery of services through the private sector, including:
Transport and Infrastructure Sector reform : Enhance capacity to manage and regulate transport systems and assets
through continuing land transport reforms, including advisory support for establishing a Land Transport Authority,
creating sustainable financing and affordable cost recovery through user charges, addressing policy and regulatory
issues, advisory support for the SAA to implement its business and management plans, and transport engineering
support to overcome under staffing.

Training: Capacity building and development of competencies for selected stakeholders under the Project.

Component 5: Project Management (estimated cost: US$1.83 million, actual cost: US$3.78 million). The Project
would provide support for the efficient administration of the Project, including:
Project Management: Support of a central project management unit under contract to Ministry of Finance, and two
Project Component Managers, to assist management of the Project; and

Project Auditing by an independent auditor of the Project financial accounts.

The project was restructured six times during its whole life cycle (ICR data sheet section H).
The first restructuring was approved on May 23, 2007, the purpose of this restructuring was to provide an additional
financing of US$8.27 million to scale up the project activities and address the financing gap between appraisal
estimate and actual bid prices. The closing date was extended by 18 months to June 30, 2010.

The second restructuring was approved on June 30, 2010. This restructuring was to extend the IDA funds closing date
further by 18 months to December 21, 2011 to enable the completion of larger works contract that had to be
redesigned and to make up the project implementation delay caused by the September 29, 2009 earthquake and
tsunami.

The third restructuring was approved on December 08, 2011, This restructuring included receiving US$3.83 million
co-financing Grant from Pacific Regional Infrastructure Fund (PRIF), simplifying disbursement categories and
reallocating funds among project activities.

The fourth restructuring was on March 06, 2012. The IDA funds closing date was extended by 18 months to June 30,
2013.

The fifth restructuring was on March 30, 2013 to extend the Trust Fund closing date by 12 months to June 30, 2014.

The sixth restructuring was on November 12, 2013 to amend the results framework and the project performance
indicators. The ICR(page 19)explained that the reason for such adjustment was to better measure the project's
impact.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The actual cost was US$41.2million, US$18.6 million more than the estimated cost. The much higher
actual cost was due to the cost-overrun and the scale up of the project activities.

Financing: The project was financed by IDA, the borrower and the Government of Australia through the Pacific
Regional Infrastructure Fund (TF10785). Additional financing of US$8.27 million was provided in 2007 to scale up the
project activities and address the financing gap between appraisal estimate and actual bid prices. The total actual IDA
resources for the project was US$18.07 million as a result of the originally provided U$9.8 million and the additional
financing of US$8.27 million.

Borrower contribution : the borrower contribution was originally planned at US$9.8 million, but was late increased to
US$16.3 million because of the increased total project cost. The share of borrower contribution was changed from
originally planned 43.4 percent to the actual 39.6 percent.

Dates: The project closing dates were by extended four times totalling 5.5 years or 66 months.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial.
The project development objectives were relevant to the government's strategy ( Strategy for the Development of
Samoa 2002-2004). One focus of government strategy was on continuing to nurture an enabling environment for the
private sector and improving infrastructure services. The project development objectives were also consistent with the
Bank’s engagement in the nine member countries of the Pacific region including Samoa, which was articulated in the
Pacific Regional Strategy ( May 2000), emphasizing a sector focus on education, health, transport, and
telecommunication, with an added emphasis on strengthening private sector capacity in these areas.
The objectives are still consistent with the Bank’s current Country Partnership Strategy 2012-2016, which calls for
“strengthened planning systems and public expenditure management” as being “critical to ensure efficiencies and
maintain service delivery standards.” It confirms that “given vulnerabilities, targeted investments to improve Samoa’s
long-term resilience to natural disasters and climate change will be a key focus for new Bank engagement.”

b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The project design included technical assistance and infrastructure improvement activities. The technical assistance
specifically targeted the establishment of an efficient, effective and economically self-reliant Land Transport Authority
to better manage the transport and coastal infrastructure asset and better respond to the natural disasters; the project
infrastructure improvement activities paid more attention to traffic safety and environmental and social considerations
in infrastructure design, construction, operation, and maintenance, These activities would lead to a more sustainable
and resilient transport and coastal infrastructure system in Samoa, consistent with the project's first sub-objective. The
project supported the empowerment of communities and organizations to reduce their risk from natural disasters and
improve disaster management. The project also tried to engage more private contractors into the road maintenance
business through training and project civil work activities, these project activities would contribute to the project's
second sub-objective of "managing transport and coastal infrastructure assets, natural resources, and response to
national emergencies, through an effective partnership with the private sector stakeholders". The causal chain from
project activities to the intended project development objectives was clear.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   This review assesses the project development objectives stated in the FA, which were (a) enhancing the
economic, environmental, and social sustainability of transport and coastal infrastructure assets; and (b) managing
said assets, natural resources, and response to national emergencies, through an effective partnership with the
private sector stakeholders.

Outputs:
At project closing, the following main outputs were achieved (ICR Annex 2):
Infrastructure improvement: nine bridges and their approaches were replaced or improved, 32 km of coastal road
through peri-urban settlement received spot maintenance, and eleven road junctions, including black-spot
intersections, were upgraded for improved visibility and pedestrian safety.
Technical assistance: most of the planned technical assistance activities were completed. The main output including:
i) Mainstream environmental, risk and resource management using the environmental management established
under the first project;
ii) Nine key pieces of legislation were prepared and approved involving valuation, survey, land registration, spatial
information, environmental management and disaster management.
iii) Implementation of a program of adaptation measures with NGOs and village committees to minimize and mitigate
natural risks through the provision of small grants to support community-based projects.
iv)assisting Ministry of Works, Transport and Infrastructure to put in place appropriate institutional structures for land
transport, roads and other public infrastructure responsibilities, leading to the establishment of the Land Transport
Authority.
v) Completed training for managing regulations, enforcement and compliance for the staff in the Planning and Urban
Management Authority, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and the Ministry of Works, Transport and
Infrastructure.

Outcomes:
The project outcomes were assessed against the two sub-objectives:
1) Enhancing the economic, environmental, and social sustainability of transport and coastal infrastructure
assets.
   Enhanced economic sustainability is supported by more transport infrastructure assets being able to achieve cost
    (operational and maintenance) recovery. For road transport, cost recovery means the revenue from road users
    charges and tax should be sufficient for the road network maintenance. This project helped road management
    institution development including the cost recovery measures. The ICR reported (page 38) that at project closing,
    the budget allocation by the Land Transport Authority would allow for nine percent of the national road network to
    have periodic maintenance. This increased from the baseline of four percent, but was one percentage short of
    the target of 10 percent by 2014. The ICR reported that for the Air transport, the Samoa Airport Authority (SAA)
    achieved 84 percent cost recovery (excluding the capital investment costs) by the mid-term review. The Samoa
    Aviation Infrastructure Project, which was approved in March 2014, also confirmed that SAA’s operating
    revenues continued to meet its operating expenses (ICR, page37). However, since many of the SAA assets
    were reaching the end of their useful life and required replacement, the cost recovery aspect should be qualified.


    Enhanced environmental sustainability of transport and coastal infrastructure assets. Enhanced environmental
     sustainability implies that the transport and coastal infrastructure assets would become more resilient to the
     natural disasters. At project closing, 100 percent of coastal communities (41 districts/283 villages) were covered
     by the Coastal Infrastructure Management Plans(CIM). The responsibility and financial resources for
     implementing these plans was also assigned. At ICR stage, 25 community implemented projects (identified as
     priorities of the respective CIM Plans) were funded with 22 completed. The ICR (page 38) assessed that the
     implementation of the CIM plans would help increase the resilience of coastal infrastructure to flooding, coastal
     erosion and landslides. The project further assisted the Government in its preparation of the Environment Impact
     Assessment (EIA) regulations which were passed into law in March 2007. By mid-2008, 100 percent compliance
     with EIA provisions was achieved. The Project also directly assisted the Ministry of Natural Resources and
     Environment to institutionalize routine data collection processes for environmental monitoring; equipped and
     provided ongoing training for staff of the National Disaster Management Office, which would contribute to the
     enhanced environmental sustainability of transport and coastal infrastructure assets.
    Enhanced social sustainability of transport and coastal infrastructure assets. Enhanced social sustainability
     indicated that the transport users could have access to the transport infrastructure in a safer and more inclusive
     manner. The ICR evidence on this aspect was quite thin. Though the project did provide improved transport
     infrastructure to the local communities, including remote ones, but there was no specific information on safety or
     on improved access for remote communities. The ICR (data sheet) indicated that at the end of the project, 80
     percent of road user groups and affected group rated the transport service quality as “good”, though the ICR
     admitted that no mechanism was established under the Project to carry out user group surveys (ICR, page 38).

There was evidence that the project has helped enhance the economic and environmental sustainability of transport
and coastal infrastructure assets in Samoa, but there was only limited evidence that the project has enhanced the
social sustainability of transport and coastal infrastructure assets. The overall achievement of this sub-objective is,
nevertheless, rated as Substantial.

2) Managing said assets, natural resources, and response to national emergencies, through an effective partnership
with the private sector stakeholders. The project promoted the private sector's involvement in road maintenance. At
the end of the project road maintenance prices were seven percent lower than the 2003 baseline price. The road
maintenance costs did vary substantially from 2009 through 2012 after the tsunami and road switch to drive on the
right-hand side of the road which required significant changes to road assets. The number of contractors for routine
maintenance increased from four at the start of the project to up to 17 companies by the end of the project. The
project funded works contracts (both construction and design and supervision) and contractor training contributed
directly to the development of the maintenance contractors because this specific industry would require specialized
skills and equipment over and above what is typically found in building construction firms. The ICR also noted that
general growth of the Samoan economy over the same time may also have contributed to development of the
maintenance contractors in the country. In addition, as what has been stated under the first sub-objective, the project
also supported the partnership of local communities with NGOs and other stakeholders to enhance the resilience of
coastal infrastructure assets. At the end of the project, roads in good and fair condition as a share of total classified
roads reached 84 percent. The overall achievement of this sub-objective is rated as Substantial.


 5. Efficiency:
  Modest.
At project appraisal stage, cost benefit analysis was carried out for the road infrastructure component activities
comprising of about 66 percent of the total project cost. The principal benefits measured were savings in vehicle
operating costs, reduction in travel time, and enhanced road safety. The cost included the road component investment
cost and the estimated maintenance cost. The economic internal rate of return for the road component activities was
estimated at 46 percent. The overall economic net present value was US$89 million based on a 12 percent discount
rate (PAD, page 45).
At project closing, no financial rate of return was calculated for the aviation component as the project investment in
aviation section was minor. Three road sections representing each type of road network were selected for the
economic analysis. The roads selected were: (i) the West Coast Road, a rural, main highway; (ii) Vaitele Street, an
urban transport corridor vital for economic growth; and (iii) Fagaloa Bay Road, a rural road. Because of the significant
actual cost increase, the actual EIRRs for the three selected road sections dropped from 57 percent, 31 percent, 39
percent to 14 percent for rural main highway type, 11 percent for urban transport corridor type, and negative 5 percent
for rural road type. The overall economic internal rate of return for the road infrastructure component activities were
dropped from the estimated 46 percent to 13 percent (ICR page 42). The ICR indicated that the positive impact of
road network improvement on rural economy and social development were not included in the analysis. However,
given the significant cost increase and the lengthy implementation period (extension by almost six years), the
efficiency of the project funds was assessed as being modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                      46%                                     66%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                      13%                                     73%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
 6. Outcome:
   The project development was relevant to the country priority and the Bank's engagement with Samoa. The project
substantially achieved its development objectives. However, the significant cost increase and prolonged project
implementation period lowered the project efficiency. The overall project outcome is Moderately Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The enhanced economic, environmental, and social sustainability of the transport and coastal infrastructure assets
, and the partnership with the private sector stakeholders built under the project to manage the said assets and their
response to emergency were faced with two main risks:
1. Natural hazards: Samoa is prone to natural hazards especially cyclones and tsunami, which would pose high risks
to the infrastructure assets improved under the project, The Bank is having a few follow up projects in Samoa to
continue enhancing the resilience of infrastructure assets in Samoa, that would help mitigate the natural hazards risk
to certain extent.
2. Financial sustainability: the risk that road network maintenance budget allocation is not sufficient and sustainable
remains. The ICR (p.47) commented that while a dramatic reduction in Land Transport Authority’s budget has not
occurred yet, further necessary commitments are not being made and the Authority's financial position is eroding over
time. Without sufficient budget for the road network maintenance, the sustainability of the transport and coastal
infrastructure will be at risk. Consequently, the demand for road maintenance work will be reduced as a result of
insufficient budget allocation, which will then constrain the development of the maintenance contractor industry. The
overall risk to development outcome is rated as Significant.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Moderately Satisfactory
This project was the second in a two phase Adaptable Program Lending. Building on what had been achieved
under the first phase (SIAM-1), the project team designed the second phase activities trying to incorporate the
identified needs from the implementing SIAM-1. for example, the first phase project's focus was on the
international airport infrastructure improvement. The improvement of the road infrastructure was insufficient under
the first project. In terms of the public sector reform, much remained to be done in land transport and in
addressing institutional capacity. The phase two project therefore, put more emphasis on road infrastructure
improvement, land transport in urban areas and enhancement of institutional capacity. Project development
objectives and the design were relevant and consistent with the country's development priorities. However, the
M&E design was unsatisfactory, insufficient attention had been paid to carrying out on-going and progressive user
group evaluations of project activities. The project also underestimated the cost and price contingency for the
urban road infrastructure improvement activity, which brought challenges to the project implementation and
assessment of the project's achievement.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank team provided strong support for the project implementation. The project moved smoothly at the
beginning of implementation and the preparation and clearance of non-standard bidding documents was
completed shortly before the project became effective. Within the first three months, procurement was well
underway, but the project implementation was later negatively affected by the underestimated cost. The project
team worked together with the client to restructure the project and seek additional financing to resolve the issues.
When it became clear that the project activities could not be completed within the planned time frame, the project
team worked to process an exception to the Bank’s policy regarding limitations on additional finance closing date
extensions, to enable the completion of the project activities (ICR, page 49). The Bank could have revised the
M&E results framework when it restructured the project in 2005-2006. The framework was finally revised, but too
late to provide real-time information for monitoring project activities, except for a few remaining few Trust Fund
co-financed activities.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory
   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Satisfactory
The Government refers to the national government. It set up a Project Steering Committee which met regularly to
provide high level oversight and coordination and take necessary decisions. The Government also actively
supported the project implementation by providing the counterpart funding in full and in a timely way. When some
of the legislation (for example, the scope of the amended land registration legislation), prepared under the project
raised public concerns, the Project Steering Committee held public meetings to hear and address these concerns.
Widening Vaitele Street required land acquisition, the government engaged all landholders to resolve matters,
which ensured a successful outcome. The Government however made the decision to keep the airports
component (about 0.1 percent of the project commitment) in the project without ensuring that Samoa Aviation
Authority (SAA) was meeting its reporting obligations, which effectively meant that two project legal covenants
could only be partially complied with. The Project Management Unit had to make extra efforts to support SAA to
complete the Asset Management System procurement activity and to provide audited financial accounts.

   Government Performance Rating                              Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Moderately Satisfactory
The implementing agency included the Ministry of National Resources and Environment, the Land Transport
Authority and the Project Implementation Unit (PMU).
The Ministry of National Resources and Environment was engaged in the original project preparation and
subsequent additional finance. It was responsible for the land administration reforms, as well as environmental
protection and disaster management procedures. The Ministry executed all the tasks well and the Coastal
Infrastructure Management Plans are recognized in the Pacific as a “flagship” example ( ICR page 50). However,
in the early years, the Ministry did not always have staff available to evaluate the procurement documents;
Throughout the project cycle, it did not have the staff to routinely assess the infrastructure on both the main or
smaller islands, and public reporting. This largely accounted for the high number of restructuring.

The Ministry of Works, Transport and Infrastructure was involved in the preparation of technical studies and
assisted project design with the selection and justification of physical investments. The Land Transport Authority
(LTA) later took over responsibility for the remaining physical works, including the Vaitele Street widening. The
LTA procured and managed the larger contracts competently and mainly within the contract provisional sums,
ensured that all works were carried out in accordance with the Samoan Codes of Environmental Practice.

The PMU provided strong support to the Project Steering Committee to ensure the project activities were
coordinated and assisted the implementing agencies with communications and consultations with stakeholders.
However, the PMU fell short in its responsibility to regularly update the M&E indicators.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The project originally had 8 project outcome indicators and 13 output level indicators in the PAD with 11 of them at
both outcome and output levels listed in the Development Credit Agreement Cr. 3848-WSO, Schedule 5. Starting from
March 2006, by agreement between the implementing agencies (IAs) and the Bank’s project team, the data collection
and project monitoring focused the eleven indicators (KPIs) listed in the Credit Agreement.

In 2010, when additional financing was provided to the project, seven Project Outcome Indicators consisting of two
Project Development Objective Indicators and five Intermediate Outcome Indicators were added. In all, the 18
indicators were variously measured during implementation, but the implementing agencies found some of them
difficult to measure in a consistent manner.
On November 20, 2013, the project indicators were rationalized through a Level 2 restructuring. The number of PDO
indicators was reduced to four (including the revision of one indicator to be a core sector indicator) and the
intermediate results indicators to three, however, it was too late to provide any meaningful information for project
monitoring as most of the project activities were already completed.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   The Project Management Unit was responsible for consolidating and analyzing the information collected by the
Component Managers who were responsible for the implementation of the different components. Through out the
project, because there were many indicators and there was confusion on which indicators to monitor, the project
indictors information collection and reporting was not consistent and not complete. The lesson of insufficient attention
had been paid to continuing on-going and progressive user group evaluations that had started in the first phase of
project was overlooked in the current project, no methodology, guidance, or budget was provided to carried out road
users survey, one of the project indicators.


 c. M&E Utilization:
   Because of the issues with the M&E design and implementation, the utilization of the M&E information was very
limited.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Environment: This project was classified as a Category B project, Bank's policy
Environmental Assessment (OP4.01) was triggered. At appraisal, an Environmental Management Plan was prepared
and approved by the government. All large project activities with potential high environmental impact were subject to
the Environmental Management Plan. For small project activities with minimal environmental impact, a set of Codes of
Environmental Practice prepared by the Government applied. The ICR confirmed that both Bank and the Government
safeguard experts monitored and ensured that all safeguard policies were complied with. The safeguards
assessments carried out during implementation were satisfactory ( ICR, page 30).
In addition to the environmental policy compliance within the project, the project also helped the Government to
enhance its regulation on environmental issues. A set of regulations on environmental impact assessment and
environmental management were adopted by the government in January, 2005. These regulations were then applied
by the Government and communities in assessing compliance and clearance of planning of infrastructure
development, land use and natural resource use in coastal zones. The compliance of the regulations was increased
from originally set target of 80 percent to 100 percent at the time of the 2010 Additional Finance. (ICR, page 30).

Social: The Bank's policy OP/BP 4.12 was triggered. A Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework was developed
and disclosed and a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan was prepared for the road widening works along
Vaitele Street. Based on a detailed survey conducted in accordance with the the Framework and the preliminary
design of the works, the report indicated no resettlement. There was land acquisition of about 2.1 ha from 95 land
holders, involving a schedule of compensation for land, structures and amenities totalling approximately US$1.8
million. The project related land acquisition work was the largest example of its type in the country, To ensure the
smooth implementation of the work, the Government created a dedicated account on June 3, 2005 and placed all
compensation funds in the account. The compensation was implemented in full prior to the commencement of the
works. The safeguard classification of the project remained the same when the additional financing was provided.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: The ICR (page 31) reported that altogether 104 contracts were procured under the project, it was a
challenge to the project implementation agencies. There were minor delays during the initial start-up of the project
because of non- availability of critical staff for the Evaluation Panels. After the project team followed up with the
respective CEOs and the Steering Committee, attendance improved and was no longer a cause for delay (ICR page
32). The procurement of the contract for the Vaitele Street (East and Central) works experienced a longer delay
because of the large discrepancy between the budget and the bid prices received, the work had to be redesigned and
repackaged for rebidding. No misprocurement was reported.
Financial Management : The project financial management was rated by the Bank's team as being satisfactory (ICR,
page 32). The ICR reported that the project Financial Management Reports were submitted on time, and the audits
reported no significant weaknesses in internal controls. The project’s financial management system was acceptable to
the Bank. No ineligible expenditure was reported.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR generated three lessons which are summarized below:

1. “Building resilience” is time consuming and should seek to empower communities to identify and implement local
solutions to manage their specific risk levels, Under this project, the communities do not always have the means to
build resilience with only their own resource. Linking the CIM Plans to a small grants facility was fundamental to
ensuring that resources were available to pay for materials and resources from outside the community itself.

2. Long-term projects, particularly those that involved restructuring and more than one source of finance, should
use the restructuring to close out completed components, or to update legal covenants, monitoring indicators, and
other design elements.

3. In small countries where the Bank has few operations, local implementing agencies have to contend with many
different external support partners with differing procedures. Therefore, clearly establishing the roles and
responsibilities of different stakeholders, including the Bank, and doing this early on can help to ensure that projects
are implemented efficiently and effectively.

In addition, this review also found that the Bank should equip the client with a system that is easy to operate and
maintain. This project funded specialists to support the existing Samoa Asset Management System to recover old
information and represent the system in GIS format, but the system was viewed by the Land Transport Authority as
overly complex and costly to maintain. In the end it was not used by the Land Transport Authority.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

This ICR provided detailed information on the project implementation, it was also candid about the shortcomings of
the project, for example, the poorly designed M&E framework. What the ICR needed to improve was the way that it
presented the "achievement of project development objectives". The ICR following normal practice should have
presented the project achievement information around the two project development sub-objectives, rather than around
the project components. This also made the ICR much longer than it should have been.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
