Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2416-TA
TANZANIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A FIRST IBRD LOAN
TANGANYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY LTD (TDFL)
June 8, 1979
East Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.0 = TShs 8.30
TShs 1.0 = US$ 0.120
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ABADEA      Arab Bank for Economic Development of Africa
CDC    :    Commonwealth Development Corporation
DEG         Deutsche Gesellschaft Fuer Wirtschaftliche
Zusammenarbeit (Entwicklungsgesellschaft) mbh
EIB         European Investment Bank
EADB        East African Development Bank
FMO         Nederlandse Financierings - Maatschappij Voor
Ontwikkelingslanden N.V.
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NBC         Natinoal Bank of Commerce
NDC         National Development Corporation
NOFC   :   Nederlandse Overzeese Financierrings Maatschappij N.V.
SIDA   :    Swedish International Development Agency
TIB    :   Tanzania Investment Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
TANGANYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY LTD (TDFL)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of.Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA                                                                         i-ii
I.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ................ ..................                        1
Industrial Strategy ...............................                      1
Institutional and Policy Framework ...............             .         2
Role of Small-Scale Industries  (SSIs)  ............           .         3
Role of the Private Sector ..*             .....................         4
Performance and Structure of Output                  .............       4
Development Issues ......         ...............                        5
Prospects .....o ............. .......................                   6
Bank Group Experience in the Sector ..............             .         7
II.    THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ......... . . . . . .  ............................. .     8
Institutional Structure .....             ......................         8
Resource Mobilization and Allocation                 ..............      9
Interest Rates ...... .............            .................        10
Issues ........ ...............           .....................         10
Bank Experience in the Sector .....................                     11
III.    THE INSTITUTION .......           ............................                 11
A.    Institutional Aspects .............................                     11
Objectives and Role ...... ..... .................. .            11
Capital and Ownership .....            ...................       11
Board and Management  ...........       ..     ............      12
Organization and Staff                .......................    12
Operating Policies   .          ...........................       13
Procedures ...................................                   14
Auditors  .....................................                   15
Terms and Conditions of Lending                .............     15
B.    Operations and Finance ............................                     16
Operations  ...................................                  16
Resources  ...... .............          .................        17
Portfolio .... .................................                 18
Financial Performance and Situation ..... ......                 19
This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of Messrs. Tei
Mante and Peter Edmonds which visited Tanzania in November 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                       Page No.
C.   Prospects       .........................................  20
TDFL's  Strategy  ........... ..............       20
Forecast Operations .... o ....................    21
Forecast Financial Prospects .............. ..     21
IV.  THE PROJECT ...................................22
A.  Description, Objectives and Justification  .......       22
B.  Costs  and  Financing  ................................  22
C.  Terms and Conditions of the Proposed Loan    .........   23
D.  Project Implementation ............. .. .............    24
E.  Benefits and Risks ...............................       25
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED ...........  .....     25
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX
1    Structure of Output and Employment in Large-Scale
Manufacturing in Tanzania
2    Interest Rate Structure in Tanzania
3    TDFL:  Summarized Income Statements (1974-78)
4    TDFL:  Summarized Balance Sheets (1974-78)
5    TDFL:  Past and Projected Operations (1962-83)
6    TDFL:  Projected Income Statements (1979-83)
7    TDFL:  Projected Balance Sheets (1979-83)
8    TDFL:  Projected Sources and Uses of Funds (1979-83)
9    TDFL:  Financial Ratios (1974-83)
10    TDFL:  Projected Schedule of Disbursements of Proposed Bank Loan
11    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



TANGANYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY LTD (TDFL)
BASIC DATA (March 31, 1979)
1. Date of Establishment: December 1962
2. Capital Structure:
Authorized: Shs 145 million consisting of
(a)  6 million ordinary shares of Shs2O.0O each
(b)  1.25 million ordinary "A" shares of Shs2O.OO
each without voting rights in General Meetings.
Issued                 Paid uP
No     Amount      %      No     Amount      %
(In millions)             (In millions)
Shs                      Shs
TIB (Tanzania)         1.5       30.0      30    0.75      15.0      28
CDC (UK)               0.5       10.0      10    0.50      10.0      18
DEG (West Germany)    1.5        30.0      30    0.50      10.0      18
FMO (Netherlands)      1.5       30.0      30    1.00      20.0      36
5.0     100.0    100    2.75       55.0    100
All issued shares are ordinary shares.
3. Operations
1962-1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    TOTAL
TShs Millions
Net Approvals
Loans                      82.9        23.9     25.6   38.5    41.0    211.9
Equity Investments         21.7         6.9      3.4    7.1    16.4        55.5
104.6        30.8     29.0   45.6    57.4    267.4
Disbursements
Loans                      70.7         5.8      9.2   14.4    39.2    139.3
Equity Investments         20.5         0.2       8.4    8.8      9.4      47.3
91.2        6.0      17.6   23.2    48.6    186.6
4. Financial Results and Position
Results (Shs 000's)                      1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
Gross Income                         5,465   8,376   9,989   12,084   14,440
Net Profit (loss)                       656     639   2,042    1,096    1,486
Net Profit as % of Average
Total Assets                        1.0      0.8      2.4      1.1       1.1
Net Profit as % of Average
Net Worth                           1.6      1.6      5.0       2.6       3.6
Position (Shs million)
Total Assets                           73.7   81.5    89.1    115.0    156.3
Total Portfolio                        72.1   73.9    84.6       99.4    139.5
Net Worth                              40.6   40.7    41.5       41.6      41.9
Long-Term Debt/Equity                 0.7/1  0.9/1   0.9/1    1.5/1    2.6/1
Provisions as % of Portfolio            4.4    7.0      6.7       7.7       6.2



- ii -
5.     Resource Situation (as of March 31, 1979)
Local        Foreign       TOTAL
In Shs.  Idillion
Resources:
Share Capital                                   100.0          -          100.0
Reserves and Provisions                          12.0          -           12.0
Unsecured Income Notes                           80.0          -           80.0
Secured Loans                                    10.0          -           10.0
CDC  Loan                                         -           23.7         23.7
EIB  Loan                                         -           28.1          28.1
202.         51.8         253.8
Uses
Fixed Assets                                     16.2          -            16.2
Loan & Equity Portfolio                         128.9         32.0        160.9
Undisbursed Commitments/Approvals                49.6         51.7        101.3
T 0 T A L:             194.7        83.7         278.4
Surplus/(Gap)                                     7.3        (31.9)        (24.6)
6.     Lending Terms
Interest rate:  11er p.a on straight loans, and 12g p.a. on income
notes and preference shares.
Commitment Charge:  1% p.a. on undrawn loan balances.
Appraisal/investigation fee: 1% of total investment.
Repayment period: Range from 5 years to 15 years.
Exchange Risks:  Passed on to subborrowers on existing EIB Loan, and
CDC Loan.



THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR 1/
Industrial Strategy
1.01      After gaining independence in 1961, Tanzania adopted an industrial
strategy which aimed at increasing domestic production through import substi-
tution, relying mainly on private foreign investment. The Arusha Declaration
of 1967 charted a completely new course for Tanzania based on socialism and
self-reliance. It involved the transfer of ownership and control of a number
of large enterprises from the private to the public sector and sought to in-
crease the rate of employment growth and improve the income distribution
between urban and rural areas. Henceforth, most major industries would be
publicly owned and most new investments would be in the public sector.
1.02      The Government's present strategy towards the development of the
industrial sector is the Basic Industrial Strategy (BIS) which was adopted
in 1974. The two main goals of this strategy are structural transformation
and self-reliance. The strategy in its pure form emphasizes the use of
domestic resources for domestic needs. Priority will be given to industries
which cater for the basic needs of the majority of Tanzanians, such as food,
shelter, health, etc. Emphasis is also given to the development of heavy
industries, such as iron and steel and engineering. By using local resources
and producing for the local market, the BIS envisages a structural transfor-
mation of the economy through a system of backward and forward linkages.
Although basically oriented towards the domestic market, the BIS also mentions
the need to expand export-oriented, agricultural processing industries to
increase the foreign exchange earning capacity of the country. Large-scale
national enterprises (in the public sector) will operate heavy industries
and produce export goods, whereas consumer goods and other day-to-day items
will be produced by medium and small-scale industries.
1.03      The potential problems with the BIS are that attempts to restructure
the economy too quickly during a period of resource stringency may ultimately
frustrate both growth and structural change. A too rapid expansion of the
metals sector (especially steel production) may lead to more reliance on
external finance, know-how and markets, and the massive investment coordi-
nation required by the strategy may overburden the country's already weak
planning capacity. Moreover, effective implementation of the strategy will
require specific changes in the macro policy framework towards a protection
and tariff structure which does not discriminate against backward linkage
import substitution, discourage domestic production of capital goods, nor
confer high and widely varying effective rates of protection to the produc-
tion of consumer goods.
1/   A detailed analysis of the sector is given in "Tanzania Basic Economic
Report:  Annex V" (No. 1616 TA), December 1977.



- 2-
Institutional and Policy Framework
1.04      The institutional structure of Tanzanian industry derives from the
system of economic management that has been adopted since 1967. This system,
with its emphasis on central planning and direct economic controls to guide
the direction and level of investment and the distribution of income between
the various segments of the community, has necessitated direct public sector
ownership and control of large units in important economic sectors such as
manufacturing, banking, insurance, and wholesale trading.  Almost all large
scale industrial production in Tanzania, therefore takes place in wholly or
majority Government-owned companies, operating under the aegis of holding
parastatals, which, in turn, are organizationally responsible to parent
ministries. 1/ The holding companies are organized along product or process
lines (e.g., National Textile Corporation), and serve as planners for, advi-
sors to, and supervisors of the operating companies under them. They receive
commissions and fees from the operating companies to cover their costs of
providing these services. In addition to this parastatal system all District
Development Corporations (DDCs), are charged with promoting productive invest-
ments in their districts, and may therefore, sponsor and own industrial
enterprises.
1.05      As noted, this institutional framework has been designed to enable
Government control over sectoral investment and production activities which
are considered of national importance. In the investment area, attempts are
made to exercise this control through centralized approval of projects and
allocation of finance. Thus, although new project ideas in the public sector
may originate from the parent ministry, holding company, operating company
or any other national agencies concerned with industrial development, approval
of all investments is required at some stage by the Economic Committee of the
Cabinet. In cases where funds for a project would require budgetary alloca-
tion, as is the case for all Government equity contribution to projects,
parliamentary approval is also required as part of the annual budget approval
exercise. Project preparation and appraisal is mostly done by the holding
parastatals with the aid of external consultants in most cases.
1.06      At the same time that this institutional structure was being set up,
policies were introduced to facilitate and reinforce central planning and
control. In the macro area, a system of comprehensive import licensing is
operated by which Government, through parastatals, determines what industrial
goods are to be imported. A system of annual foreign exchange allocations
aims at ensuring that foreign exchange is only available for such approved
imports. In addition, a system of protective import duties exists to protect
local producers.  Wage scales are set by the Standing Committee on Parastatals
(SCOP) and conditions of service in all parastatals have been standardized;
salary levels being similar to those obtained in the civil service. Govern-
ment policy also aims at worker participation in management decisions. Prices
1/   As of June 1977, there were 97 operating companies under 17 holding
parastatals, reporting to 4 operating ministries involved in industrial
development.



- 3 -
of industrial output are controlled, along with all other prices, by a National
Price Commission, which has been using a cost plus price system for setting
the ex-factory prices of locally produced goods. This central planning and
control system has therefore reduced the role of macro incentive tools typical
in free market economies in investment and production decisions in Tanzanian
industry. In practice the system is faced with a series of problems which
are detailed below (para. 1.14).
1.07      Two other institutions are involved with the industrial sector.  The
National Institute of Productivity, set up in 1967 with ILO's assistance, has
been providing consulting and management training services to middle-level
managers of parastatal enterprises. In order to provide facilities for indus-
trial studies and consultancy, the Government established the Tanzanian Indus-
trial Studies and Consultancy Organization (TISCO) in 1976, with financial and
technical assistance from SIDA. Although TISCO has the primary responsibility
for carrying out consultancy services in Tanzania, foreign consultants have
been engaged in areas where TISCO lacks the necessary expertise. 1/
Role of Small-Scale Industries
1.08      On the basis of information available, small-scale industries (SSIs)
appear concentrated in those areas normally associated with early industrial-
ization, for example grain milling and bakeries, clothing, wood products in-
cluding furniture, printing and soap products. Due to the lack of sufficient
data, it is difficult to accurately isolate the performance of SSIs; however
estimates show that value added by SSIs 2/ in manufacturing declined from 44%
in 1966 to 23% in 1974. This appears to be due to the emphasis placed by the
Government on large-scale projects in the public sector and lack of clear
policies on the role of private investors.
1.09      The Government has in recent years acknowledged the need to develop
SSIs (paragraph 1.02) and established the Small Industries Development
Organization (SIDO) in 1973 to have primary responsibility for planning,
promoting and providing all kinds of assistance to small-scale industries.
SIDO has set up three industrial estates for SSIs and has also set up 11
training-cum-production centers for imparting skill and craft training. Its
other activities include preparation of feasibility studies, provision of
hire-purchase finance, marketing and other technical assistance. The Govern-
ment envisages a larger role for SIDO in the development of the SSI sector and
has requested the Bank Group to assist SIDO in the matter.  A project to meet
this request is under preparation.
1/   For example, TIB's Feasibility Studies Unit which was created to channel
funds under IDA's Technical Assistance Project has engaged foreign
consultants for feasibility and other studies.
2/   Defined as enterprises with less than 10 employees.



-4-
Role of the Private Sector
110      In spite of the clear preference for public ownership or control
of large scale industry, and the institutional changes which have been imple-
mented since 1967 to effectuate this, the role of the private sector in
industry remains surprisingly large. In 1974, private production is esti-
mated to have accounted for over half of large scale production and nearly
two thirds of total manufacturing and handicrafts production, including small
scale.  This proportion is not expected to have declined significantly since
then.
1.11      The level of new private industrial investment did decline after
the Arusha declaration of 1967, and many factors were responsible for this.
First, although the declaration made it clear that private investment was
welcome in unrestricted subsectors, the takeover measures which followed
the declaration inevitably created uncertainties among both foreign and local
private investors; thus some of those whose enterprises were not taken over
voluntarily decided to sell out to Government. Those who continued shelved
most of their investment plans. Second, a party 1/ leadership code precludes
all party members from holding shares or a directorship in any privately owned
company. This effectively arrested the development of indigenous Tanzanian
entrepreneurs, since all citizens are encouraged to become members of the
party. Third, the bulk of Government institutional support for industrial
development was geared towards assisting parastatals. More recently, Govern-
ment has clarified, at the highest level, that private sector involvement in
industrial development has always been welcome, and has backed it up with
issuing licenses etc., to private entrepreneurs. The effect has been an in-
crease in the number of investment proposals coming from the private sector.
It is expected therefore that the level of private investment in the sector,
and the contribution of private enterprises to output will increase.
Performance and Structure of Output
1.12      Industry in Tanzania grew fairly rapidly compared to the overall
economy since independence in 1961. The share of the manufacturing and
handicraft sector which accounted for just under 4% of GDP in 1961, increased
to 8% in 1965 and has remained around 10% since 1970. Total manufacturing
employment increased from about 28,000 in 1965 to about 85,000 in 1977. Value
added in manufacturing grew rapidly at an average rate of 10.8% between 1965
and 1969, but averaged 7.4% between 1970 and 1973. While limitations of
sector data prevent any firm conclusions about the causes    of this declining
growth rate, indications are that there was an increase in the incremental
capital-output ratio, implying a lower rate of growth in relation to invest-
ment in the latter years. The evidence further suggests that this decline was
due to both a shift toward more capital intensive investment, and a decline
in the productivity of capital. After virtual stagnation in 1974 and 1975
1/   The Tanganyika African National Union (TANU), which merged in 1977 with
the Afro-Sharazi Party of Zanzibar to form Chama Cha Mapinduze (CCM).



because of the economic crisis in those years and its attendant supply prob-
lems for industrial inputs and parts, industrial output appears to have
recovered, showing a growth rate averaging about 6.4% in 1976 and 5.4% in
19 77.
1.13      Tanzania's industrial struc:ture has undergone a fairly rapid
change from the rudimentary structure inherited at independence in 1961
producing a very limited range of goods, to a more diversified structure,
producing a larger variety of basic food and non-food consumer goods, inter-
mediate goods such as saw-milling and plywood, leather, aluminum re-rolling,
chemicals and plastics and some capital goods such as vehicle assembly.
Tanzanian manufacturing is still dominated by production of consumer goods
for the domestic market. Consumer goods accounted for 71% of output and
68% of employment for manufacturing enterprises with 10 or more employees
in 1965. In 1976, the share of consumer goods to total output and employ-
ment was 50% and 69% respectively.
Development Issues
1.14      As may be expected, the institutional and structural changes that
have been taking place in Tanzanian industry over the past decade, have
brought in their wake a number of problems which have affected sectoral
performance. First is an apparent decline in labour productivity, particu-
larly in the parastatal sector. This can be traced mainly to a lack of a
clear-cut micro-incentive framework for parastatal companies. Clear and
unambiguous criteria for judging performance are yet to emerge, and managers,
even if they are competent, have lacked a system of rewards and penalties for
stimulating required performance from workers.  The cost-plus price system has
also tended to work against cost reduction, and has not therefore discouraged
overmanning.  Second, there have been excess capacity problems in certain
industries because of a tendency to overbuild capacity in relation to supply.
This gets exacerbated when shortages of raw materials and spare parts become
acute (as is frequent if the foreign exchange situation deteriorates). Third,
the real rate of return on capital invested in parastatals has been falling,
with the result that parastatal surpluses have lagged in relation to the
growth of output. This is largely attributed to the decline in parastatal
labour productivity. Fourth, the central investment planning system has been
ineffective. Originally designed to ensure coordination in the choice of
investments to meet overall sector strategy, the system, in practice, has
tended to place great focus on the annual budget as a major instrument of
control. The planning office has not got the staff to coordinate investment
plans of parastatals, and as such most parastatals have been able to plan and
undertake investments without much central control. Fifth, because of the
uncertainty and fear of takeovers, the resources of the private sector have
not been effectively harnessed for sectoral needs. Finally, as discussed in
paragraph 1.08, the potential contribution of SSIs, especially to employment
creation in the sector, is yet to be realized.
1.15      Government is aware of these problems, and is making efforts to
resolve them. It has acknowledged the problems of low labor productivity



-6-
and low capacity utilization, and is stressing the need to increase pro-
ductivity through a review of the cost-plus pricing system. While decisions
on major policy changes relating to incentives, price and import control
systems and the control of parastatals will take time because of the import-
ance and breadth of the issues, there! are already indications that at the firm
level a number of improvements have been made. Some of these improvements are
not due to any overall policy directives but are the result of individual
initiatives by firms' managers in a more favourable industrial environment.
The improvements include some cases of retrenchment in over-manned parastatals,
better discipline among workers mainly due to improved relations of the
managers with the Labour Union, JUWATA, better worker participation in certain
aspects of decision-making, introduction of incentive (in kind) system in a
few firms and relaxation of limitations on recruitment of expatriate experts.
Regarding capacity utilization, the National Development Corporation (NDC),
the largest parastatal holding company, recently implemented the recommenda-
tions of a firm of management consultants and has been able to achieve
improvement in the operating efficiency of some of its subsidiaries.
1.16      The Bank Group has raised these issues in its discussions with
the authorities both within the context of its general economic work in
Tanzania and of specific projects in the industrial sector. It has also
provided funs under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit for carrying out
studies to improve efficiency in the industrial sector. Among the studies
currently in progress are (i) capacity utilization studies initiated by the
Textiles Corporation in respect of its subsidiaries and (ii) measurement and
improvement of productivity studies carried out by TIB with assistance from
two experts from the International Executive Service Corps; TIB is also
contemplating to engage experts to study inventory control practices in
Tanzania and to suggest improvements.
1.17      On the issue of the role of the private sector, the Government has
clarified, at the highest level, that the Arusha Declaration did not preclude
private investment in industry, and that the private sector would be encour-
aged in all areas not specifically reserved for full Government control. This
has been followed in practice by greater liberalism in processing of applica-
tions for industrial licenses and importation of spare parts and raw materials
to encourage the growth of private industries. It may however be necessary
in future, to issue a new Guide to Investors clearly specifying policies
on price control, import licensing, dividend transfer restrictions, income
taxation, etc. Regarding small-scale industries, Government is aware of
the unintended restrictions which its policies have placed on their develop-
ment, and appears responsive to a specific effort by the Bank Group to
assist in reviewing such policies.
Prospects
1.18      The Third Five Year Plan (1976-1981), currently under implementa-
tion, is the first phase of implementation on the Basic Strategy. Under this
plan, the specific objectives are to improve the efficiency and capacity



utilization in the existing industries so as to increase output, to expand and
establish new industrial capacity for production for basic needs, and to lay
the foundations for the implementation of the Basic Strategy. The targeted
growth rate for the sector is 9.3% per annum compared to an overall targeted
growth rate of the economy of 6.0%. In line with the important role which
industry plays in the plan, a total of Shs 5,147 million, (24% of the total
investment allocation in the plan), has been earmarked for public investment
in the sector.
1.19      The Ministry of Industries will be directly responsible for imple-
menting projects involving T Shs 2,747 million or 53% of the total Government
development budget for the industrial sector projects; the remaining 47% will
be implemented by other ministries and agencies. TIB is expected to invest
18.5% of the total in the sector. The sub-sectoral allocation of the proj-
ected investment is as follows: construction and building materials T Shs 929
million; metalworking, engineering and chemicals T Shs 820 million; textile
and garments T Shs 600 million; leather and leather goods T Shs 224 million;
and Small-Scale Industries T Shs 178 million.
1.20      The Government's emphasis on productivity, work and discipline
(para 1.15) has had the effect of increasing investor confidence in the
sector and improving the overall investment climate. Following the Presi-
dent's statement late in 1977 encouraging private investors to establish
medium- and small-scale industries, there has been an upsurge in investment
activity by the private sector. In addition to the public outlays in the
Third Five Year Plan, Government expects considerable private investment,
especially in the small- and medium-scale industries, to supplement the
resources it will provide in meeting the investment needs of the sector.
1.21      During the first two years of the plan, the average growth rates
achieved were 5.9% for industry and 5.3% for the overall economy. The drop
in coffee prices, Tanzania's major export, has resulted in a marked deterio-
ration in the country's balance of payments. Due to the lack of foreign
exchange, the Government has been forced to impose restrictions on imports
and devalued the Tanzanian shilling by 10% in January 1979. Given the low
initial growth rates and the constraints presently facing the sector, it
will be difficult for industry to achieve the growth envisaged in the plan.
Bank Group Experience in the Industrial Sector
1.22      Apart from financing industrial projects through credit lines to
TIB and EADB, the Bank Group presently is financing four projects for a total
amount of $143 million. Two investments of $60 million have been made in the
textile sector through the National Textile Corporation, first a loan of $15
million to expand an existing operation and second, a loan of $25 million and
an IDA credit of $20 million to set up a new integrated polyester textile
mill. The Bank also approved two loans totalling $23 million for an indus-
trial complex at Morogoro in 1977, wherein a canvas mill and a shoe factory
will be set up with the primary objective of exporting their output. Early



this year the Bank Group has approved a loan of $30 million and an IDA credit
of $30 million for the Mulfindi Pulp and Paper Project.. The project consists
of the establishment of an integrated pulp and paper mill with an initial
capacity of 60,000 tons per annum of paper and board as well as 1,400 tons of
pulp for sale outside the mill. IDA has also approved a Small-Scale Indus-
tries component in its Second National Sites and Services Project ($1.4 mil-
lion) to provide assistance to small-scale industries in Tabora and Tanga.
The program, which is being administered by SIDO, would provide infrastructure
for industrial clusters, credit for equipment and management and technical
assistance to selected small enterprises.  IFC has recently approved an
investment of $1. 8 million in a privately owned soap manufacturing operation
and is also looking at other project possibilities. The Bank Group's experi-
ence with these projects, which are under various stages of implementation,
is generally satisfactory. Only the SSI component in the urban project is
experiencing delays in implementation.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Institutional Structure
2.01      In terms of appropriate institutions, Tanzania's financial system
is relatively well developed. In addition to the Central Bank, the Bank of
Tanzania, there are nine other financial institutions: a commercial bank,
four development banks, a savings bank, a housing bank, an insurance company
and a national provident fund. 1/ All the institutions are state-owned except
for the East African Development Bank (EADB), the majority of whose shares
are held jointly by the Governments of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, and the
Tanganyika Development Finance Corporation (TFDL) which is jointly owned by
TIB and bilateral aid agencies of the U. K. , West Germany and the Netherlands.
Tanzania has no private capital market and the bulk of equity investments is
provided by the Government directly through the budgetary process.
2.02      Six institutions carry out lending operations.  TIB, TDFL, EADB,
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) and the National Bank of Commerce
(NBC) lend to the directly productive sectors whereas the Tanzania Housing
Bank (THB) provides funds for commercial and residential buildings, including
low-cost housing. TRDB mainly operates in the rural sector and makes short-
term loans for seasonal inputs and medium- and long-term loans for machinery,
transport, storage and livestock. Other short-term funds for working capital
are provided by NBC. Most of NBC's loans are extended to industry and
mining, and to the marketing of agricultural products.
1/   A Summary of the activities of these institutions is available in the
Project file.



- 9 -
2.03      Medium- and long-term financing for the modern sectors of manufac-
turing, agro-business, tourism, transport, etc. is provided by EADB, TDFL
and TIB. Although there is a limited overlapping of functions among these
three institutions, their respective roles are well defined and there is no
costly duplication of effort. EADB's charter does not authorize it to make
more than 3& 75% of its investment in Tanzania. Moreover, EADB's role has
diminished considerably because of the uncertainty surrounding its future
after the dissolution of the East African Community. TDFL provides funds
mainly to medium-size, private enterprises. Although TIB has increased its
lending to the private sector, it has concentrated on large-scale enterprises.
In FY 1978 the average size of a TIB loan was T Shs 13 million (for private
sector loans, T Shs 10 million) compared to T Shs 2 million (T Shs 2.9 mil-
lion for both loans and equity and investments) for TDFL. Moreover, TIB owns
30% of TDFL's shares and has two directors on its board and thus helps to
coordinate the operations of the two organizations.
Resource Mobilization and Allocation
2. 04     Mobilization of savings from the public is carried out by five
institutions, namely, NBC, THB, Tanganyika Post Office Savings Bank (TPOSB),
the National Insurance Corporation (NIC), and the National Provident Fund
(NPF). NBC, THB and TPOSB, with branch networks, mobilize savings through
deposit accounts. NBC is the most important mobilizer of savings in Tanzania.
As of December 31, 1977 its total deposits exceeded T Shs 6.2 billion. THB
had deposits of T Shs 226 million at the end of 1977 and TPOSB had mobilized
deposits of T Shs 118 million as of March 31, 1978.
2.05      Tanzania has a high level of savings compared to its income level.
The share of domestic savings to GDP has fluctuated around 17% since the mid-
1960's, except during the economic crisis of 1974/75, when it fell to around
8%. The Government has been able to mobilize domestic resources through a
combination of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. The share of Government recurrent revenue to GDP
averaged about 20% in 1977. With the emergence of public enterprises as a
result of the Arusha Declaration, the parastatal sector was looked upon
as the major saving entity in the country. The performance of this sector,
with the exception of the financial parastatals, has however, not been up to
expectations. The Bank's Basic Economic Report concluded that, while interest
rates will remain less important in resource allocation in Tanzania's command
economy than in less controlled economies, they could still play a role on
the mobilization side. It therefore recommended a more active interest rate
policy to stimulate savings particularly from the private sector. The
interest rate on deposits which varied between 4% and 6. 5% depending on term,
was considered low in the light of the inflation rates which, measured by the
GDP deflator, ranged between 14.5% and 16.2% during 1975 - 1977.  Similarly
a case was made for increasing the lending rates of the financial parastatals,
which had a proven record of being better savers than other parastatals, to
enable the former to generate more surpluses.



- 10 -
2.06      The Government's role in allocation of resources is more important
than in resource mobilization due to the centralized investment decision-
making. Allocations from the development budget are made to parastatals
annually in accordance with the Third Five-Year Plan targets. However, the
Government is able to influence resource mobilization from the parastatal
financial institutions by directing them to invest their surpluses in Govern-
ment stocks, bonds and Treasury bills. These institutions play an important
role in financing public investment in Tanzania. Medium and long-term
Government security sales to the financial institutions accounted for 27%
of the development budget in FY 1978. 1/ Furthermore, as of March 31, 1978,
Government borrowings from the banking system stood at over T Shs 3.1 billion.
Interest Rates
2.07      In an effort to revise the overall interest rate structure in
the country with a view to influencing resource mobilization and allocation
and reflecting Government priorities, the Bank of Tanzania (BOT) directed
NBC, THB, TIB and TRDB in May 1978 to adopt a new interest rate structure
(see Annex 2) effective July 1, 1978. The new schedule authorizes NBC and
THB to increase their deposit rates slightly. It also permits the NBC to
increase its rates on loans across the board by 1%. On the other hand, BOT
has directed TIB and TRDB to reduce their rates on loans, with the exception
of sub-loans made out of foreign credit lines for which the terms and condi-
tions of the credit lines would be applicable. While the increase in the
deposit rates and the lending rates for NBC are in line with the recommenda-
tion of the Basic Economic Report, the reduction in the lending rates of TIB
and TRDB is contrary to the Bank's view (see para. 2.08).
Issues
2.08      There are two important issues in the Tanzanian financial sector.
The first relates to the recent BOT directive to TIB and TRDB to reduce
their lending rates to the levels desired by BOT. The Bank's view is that
the appropriate lending rate should be determined after taking into consider-
ation the existing and projected inflation rates, the rates charged by other
financial institutions for similar loans in Tanzania, the need for an ade-
quate spread and the opportunity cost of capital. This issue of the lending
rates of the financial institutions receiving Bank Group's lines of credit
is being discussed with Government and BOT.
2.09      Secondly, because of the unusual risks involved in financing small-
scale industries, the high cost of administering such loans and the uncertainty
regarding the Government's policies in the sector, the financial institutions
have been reluctant in the past to provide short and medium-term financing
to the sector. In view of the recent Government interest in accelerating the
development of the Small-Scale Industries sector, there is need for the
1/   Loans and grants from external sources accounted for 55% of the devel-
opment budget.



- 11 -
financial institutions to evolve pragmatic policies and delivery mechanisms
designed to assist the sector and to coordinate their activities more closely
than in the past.
Bank Experience in the Sector
2.10      The Bank has been extensively involved with TIB since 1974.  To date
the Bank has made one IDA credit and two loans to TIB for a total amount of
$36 million. Progress on these projects has been satisfactory and TIB has
grown into a well-organized institution and an efficient allocator of medium-
and long-term funds to the productive sector. Furthermore, the Bank has made
two loans of $23 million to EADB, of which the equivalent of $9 million has
been invested in projects located in Tanzania. The Bank is presently expand-
ing its role in the sector; in addition to TDFL, TRDB has been appraised for a
first line of credit.
III. THE INSTITUTION
A.   Institutional Aspects
Objectives and Role
3.01      The Tanganyika Development Finance Company Ltd (TDFL) was estab-
lished in 1962 as a private limited liability company under the Tanzania
companies ordinance. Its Memorandum of Association lists as its objectives
wide ranging activities in the field of promoting and financing development.
In practice this has been narrowed down in its policy statement to assisting
in the development of Tanzania through "establishment and expansion of com-
mercially viable industrial, agricultural, extractive and commercial enter-
prises as well as of housing, industrial estates, tourist, commercial hotels,
and lodges, provided it can be shown that they are of value to the economy".
3.02      TDFL's main role in Tanzania's economic system is that of develop-
ment financier of medium scale privately owned manufacturing enterprises.
It is active in promotion of such enterprises through its identification of
suitable investment opportunities and through taking the leadership in bring-
ing together interested investors, technical partners, and other financiers,
both local and foreign. It provides equity financing to supplement invest-
ments of project sponsors, or where it is the lead promoter, to serve as a
necessary catalyst for attracting others. It is the main institution in
Tanzania which provides such equity funds for non-parastatal projects. In
addition to this basic role, it has provided on some occasions, co-financing
for some larger projects whose financing requirements are too large for either
TIB or EADB to finance alone.
Capital and Ownership
3.03      TDFL was established with an authorized capital of Shs 35 million
under the joint sponsorship of the Tanganyika Government (before union with
Zanzibar), Britain's Commonwealth Development Corporation, and the Federal



- 12 -
Republic of Germany (through KfW), each of whom subscribed Shs 10 million of
the initial share issues. The authorized capital was increased to Shs 60.0
million in 1965 to permit the Netherlands Government, through NOFC, to sub-
scribe to Shs 10 million at par, making it a fourth owner. The Tanganyika
Government's shareholding was transferred to NDC, and then to TIB; the KfW
shareholding was transferred to DEG; and NOFC'c shareholding was transferred
to FMO. These together with CDC remain the current shareholders of TDFL.
3.04      The authorized capital of TDFL was increased to Shs 145 million, 1/
consisting of 6 million ordinary shares of Shs 20.00 each and 1.25 million
ordinary "A" shares of Shs 20.00 each, in December 1978. The ordinary "A"
shares have no voting rights in General Meetings of the Company.  Five million
of the ordinary shares have been issued at par for Shs 100 million. Of this
TIB, FMO and DEG have each subscribed 1.5 million shares for Shs 30 million,
and CDC has subscribed 0.5 million shares for Shs 10 million. Foreign
governmental development agencies thus hold the majority ownership in TDFL.
Board and Management
3.05      Each of the existing four shareholders is represented by two
directors on TDFL's Board. The Chairman, a TIB representative, was originally
appointed by the Tanzanian Government and has been Chairman since the com-
pany's inception. CDC and FMO each have one of their directors resident
locally, while the second directors visit Tanzania to attend Board Meetings.
DEG's two directors are both resident outside Tanzania. All the directors
are experienced development bankers or businessmen who take a keen interest
in TDFL's operations. The combination of local and foreign expertise on the
Board has also proven to be invaluable to TDFL's operations. The Board meets
about four times a year, but TDFL's management is in constant touch with most
of the members.
3.06      Under the Memorandum of Association, the Board is responsible for
the management of the company, and may appoint one of its members as a Chief
Executive. In practice, a General Manager, who is not a Board member, has
been delegated the responsibility for the day to day operation of the company.
The incumbent, a Tanzanian, has been General Manager since 1974. He has been
with TDFL since 1966, and was made a Deputy General Manager in 1970. He pro-
vides TDFL with experienced, dynamic and competent leadership.
Organization and Staff
3.07      TDFL has an organization structure which is well suited to its size
and operations. There are five departments directly under the General
Manager. A Finance and Planning and Department, headed by the Financial
1/   In March 1977, a second class of shares, called ordinary "A" shares with
no voting right at annual General Meetings was created in the amount of
1.25 million shares of Shs 20.00 each. This was a condition of EIB
subscribing to a convertible European unit of Account Bond of Shs 24.00
million equivalent in TDFL.



- 13 -
Controller, is responsible for accounting and financial management, disburse-
ments and procurement. A manpower Development and Administration Department
handles staff recruitment, training and general administration whilst legal
and company secretarial services are the responsibility of a Secretarial and
Legal Department. An Investments Department is responsible for the supervision
of TDFL's portfolio, and an Investments Promotion Department for project
identification, preparation and appraisal.
3.08      TDFL is adequately staffed by a small, dedicated, and able group
of Tanzanian professionals assisted in key areas by expatriates provided by,
or with the help of, the foreign shareholders. As of March 1979, the total
professional staff was 21, of which 2 were expatriates. (The financial con-
troller, provided by CDC, and a consultant economist to the Investments
Department provided by German Aid). In line with projected expansion in its
operations, TDFL plans to recruit 29 more professionals by 1983 and a suitable
recruitment and training program has been drawn up.
Operating Policies
3.09      TDFL's operating policies are contained in a policy statement
which has been issued by the Board as a guideline to the management. A copy
of this statement is in the project file and agreement was reached with TDFL
during negotiations that it will not be materially changed without prior
consultation with the Bank. The statement clearly defines the objectives of
the company, the powers and limitations of the General Manager, the principles
that govern its investments and financial management, and provides a good
framework for its operations.
3.10      The statement precludes TDFL from financing projects which do not
conform to Government policy, nor purely infrastructural projects like schools
or hospitals. Investments would preferably be made in limited liability com-
panies, and TDFL seeks to avoid taking a controlling interest, or any interest
which would give it primary responsibility for management, in any project.
Sponsors are normally required to put up at least 25% of a project's capital
costs, and TDFL will not normally provide less than 10% of a projects total
capital cost so as to avoid token investments.
3.11      At the suggestion of the Bank the following amendments and addi-
tional clauses were introduced in January 1979 by TDFL's Board to permit more
flexibility in the size of projects assisted, and to introduce some necessary
financial principles.
(i) Because of the increasing cost of projects, TDFL's maximum
investment limit per project has been revised from Sh 6
million to Shs 12 million. Its minimum limit will still
remain at Shs 200,000, and this will permit it to promote
and finance, on a selective basis, indigenous Tanzanian
entrepreneurs whose projects are at the lower scale of the
medium sized enterprise category.



- 14 -
(ii)  to permit TDFL to increase its promotion role by providing
more financial assistance to new entrepreneurs without
much capital, the proportion of TDFL's normal maximum
contribution to a project's capital cost has been raised
from 49% to 60%. This proportion, combined with the
normal maximum single investment limit of Shs 12 million
will permit it to finance projects with costs up to
Shs 20 million (US$2.4 million). This is consistent with
its role as a promoter and financier of primarily medium
scale projects, and will not expose it to excessive risks.
(iii)  a final addition is a clause specifying that TDFL will
always protect itself against exchange risks.
3.12      In addition to these amendments and additions to the policy state-
ment, the Bank has reached agreement with TDFL that its normal total invest-
ments in equity will be limited to its own paid up capital plus unimpaired
reserves to ensure that borrowed funds are not normally used for equity
investments.
Procedures
3.13      Identification and Promotion:  To identify suitable investment
opportunities, TDFL relies both on Government development plans and various
sector studies, and on its extensive contacts with the private local business
community. This combination of a planning and an entrepreneurial approach
has proven successful in yielding projects which conform to Government require-
ments and plans, and are at the same time attractive to businessmen. Promotion
of these projects is done mainly by the General Manager and the Investments
Promotion Manager, with assistance from the staff of the Investment Promotion
Department. TDFL also uses the external contacts of its foreign shareholders
in investment promotion.
3.14      Appraisal:  TDFL's appraisal of the managerial and financial aspects
of projects is quite thorough, and its analysis of the demand, marketing and
technical aspects are also quite good. An area of weakness is in economic
analysis, where it has been relying on a few partial indicators (e.g., employ-
ment creation) to determine economic worth. To improve its performance in
this area TDFL has reached agreement with the Bank that in future, all non-
service projects in which its proposed financial commitment will exceed
US$250,000 equivalent will be subjected to an economic rate of return cal-
culation.
3.15      Follow-Up:  Well established and adequate procedures exist for
follow up. Monthly operational and financial reports are required from all
projects, and are analyzed for review by an Investments Committee consisting
of the professional staff in the Investments Department. Each operating
project is visited by a TDFL supervision officer at least twice a year, in
addition to the regular involvement in the operations of these projects made
possible through its participation on their Boards. Management places the
necessary emphasis on project supervision, and the follow up department is
projected to receive the largest increase in professional staff through 1983.



- 15 -
3.16      To provide a ready source of reference for appraisal and supervision
procedures, and facilitate the training of the new professional staff to
be recruited, TDFL has agreed with the Bank that it will prepare an Operations
Manual incorporating its existing documents on these subjects and submit a
copy to the Bank by December 31, 1979.
3.17      Procurement and Disbursement:  TDFL's procurement and disbursement
procedures are adequate, well established, and well documented in a Financial
Operating and Reporting Procedures Manual. Although sponsors of projects are
responsible for procurement of items financed by TDFL, TDFL ensures that such
procurement is made on the basis of competitive quotations. Disbursements are
made on the basis of the predetermined investment program for each project,
and after approval by both the Investments Promotion and Accounts Departments
that all preconditions for disbursements have been met, and that sponsors
equity have been paid in. Detailed documentation such as invoices are required
for these disbursements.
Auditors
3.18      The Dar es Salaam office of Coopers and Lybrand Ltd., a reputable
international accounting and auditing firm, undertakes the audits of TDFL's
annual accounts. The scope of these audits has been adequate as far as
the basic financial statements are concerned. At the request of the Bank, the
auditors have also started providing supplementary statements on the state of
TDFL's portfolio and on arrears of interest and principal on its loans. The
first of these statements have been provided for the year ending December
1978.
Terms and Conditions of Lending
3.19      TDFL lends for maturities of between 5 to 15 years including a
normal grace period of a year, and will not normally provide finance for
less than 3 years. Adequate security is taken in the form of mortgage
debentures, and TDFL's position as a lender is not normally subordinated
to that of any other lender. In rare cases, lending may take the form of
income notes or preference shares with or without cumulative dividend and
conversion rights.
3.20      TDFL is willing, as a matter of policy, to vary its interest rate
depending on the standing of the borrower, the type and duration of the loan,
the security offered and whether or not any special guarantees are obtainable.
In practice this has rarely been done, and a uniform interest rate has been
charged on loans. Its current minimum lending rate is 11.0% per annum for
mortgage debenture loans, and 12% per annum for income notes and preference
shares. Given domestic inflation rates of 14.5% each in 1975 and 1976, and
16.2% and 12% respectively in 1977 and 1978, and considering that almost all
its lending in those years were in domestic currency, this lending rate has
not been positive in real terms. The Bank projects however that inflation
rates in Tanzania will decline to 10% in 1979, and to 8% by 1980, and 1981
and that international inflation rates would be 6.5% and 6% in 1979 and
1980/81 respectively. TDFL's current lending rates would therefore yield



- 16 -
positive real interest rates on both domestic and foreign currency lending
during the commitment period of the proposed loan. They are also comparable
to the lending rates of TIB and EADB and will provide TDFL with an adequate
spread. The Bank has reached agreement with TDFL to maintain this minimum
onlending rate of 11.0% per annum. In addition the Bank has reached agreement
with TDFL on the establishment of a system of periodic reviews between TDFL
and the Bank of this onlending rate.
3.21      TDFL charges a commitment fee of 1% per annum on undrawn loan
balances, and an appraisal/investigation fee of 1% on the total financial
commitment requested from it. It passes on the full foreign exchange risk
on subloans made out of foreign lines of credit to the subborrowers, and has
agreed to similar treatment of the foreign exchange risk on the proposed
loan.
B.   Operations and Finance
Operations
3.22      Since its inception in 1962 through 1978, TDFL approved a total
of Shs 267.4 million in financial assistance to some 87 projects (Annex 5).
Initially, being the primary development finance institution in Tanzania, it
experienced a steady growth of operations. Its rate of growth was slowed down
after the Arusha declaration of 1967 because of the adverse impact the policy
pronouncements in the declaration had on private industrial investments.
Since 1975, however, TDFL has experienced a fairly substantial increase in
operations, reflecting the changed climate for the type of investments it
finances. Its approvals in 1975 and 1976 averaged Shs 30 million per year,
compared to an annual average of only Shs 8.1 million between 1962 and 1974,
and reached Shs 45.6 million in 1977. In 1978, it approved Shs 57.4 million,
an increase of over 91% over the 1975 and 1976 average. 1/ This recent
significant increase in level of operations has resulted from both an increase
in the number of projects assisted (15 in 1976 compared to 21 in 1978) as well
as in the average size of its financial assistance per project (Shs 1.9 mil-
lion in 1976 compared to Shs 2.7 million in 1978).
3.23      The proportion of equity investments in TDFL's total approvals
through December 1978 was 20.8%. While this proportion is rather high for
a development bank in Tanzania, it is justified in TDFL's context because
of its active role as a lead promoter of projects.  In fact, in 1978, equity
approvals amounted to 28.6% of approvals, reflecting the fact that TDFL was
the lead promoter of three of the nine new projects it approved.
3.24      Although the overall level of TDFL's disbursements has been ade-
quate, there is a recent trend of an increasing lag between approvals and
disbursements. As of December 1978, 70% of approvals had been disbursed
1/   All these figures are in current terms, but the rates of growth are
significantly higher than Tanzania's experiences with inflation, indi-
cating substantial growth in real terms too.



- 17 -
compared to 87% at the end of 1974. This decline, attributed to a slowdown
in preparation of legal documentation by TDFL's external lawyers, is expected
to be reversed since TDFL is now using additional firms of lawyers to draft
loan and share subscription documents.
3.25      In keeping with its role, TDFL's operations have concentrated on
medium scale privately owned manufacturing enterprises. The average project
cost of the 66 projects to which TDFL had provided financial assistance as
of December 1977, was Shs 16 million, which is medium scale in the Tanzanian
context. It has financed some large projects, but these are very few. For
example, only 6 out of 43 operating projects on which information on total
assets were available as of June 1978 had total assets in excess of Shs 20.0
million (US$2.4 million). Of 87 projects assisted as of December 1978, 86%
were privately owned, the remainder were parastatals or cooperatives. The
majority of these private companies are owned by local groups, although
there are a few majority foreign holdings. An estimated 25% of the capital
invested in 66 projects assisted, on which information was available as
of December 1977, originated from outside Tanzania. In terms of sectoral
distribution, manufacturing activities have received the bulk of assistance,
accounting for 75.3% of the cumulative approvals as of December 1978 compared
to 13.7% in hotels and tourist projects, 9.6% in agriculture and fishing,
0.9% in property development, and 0.5% in mining and quarrying. In the
manufacturing group TDFL is well diversified with general industries, tex-
tiles and garments, food and beverages and rubber and plastics products
predominating.
3.26      As may be expected from the size and subsectoral distribution of
these projects, a majority of them are import substitution in orientation
and rely in part on imported inputs. Because TDFL has not been using the
economic rate of return criterion in project selection, it is not possible to
determine how efficiently the projects assisted have been substituting for
imports. Their employment impact has however been significant. Of 66 proj-
ects assisted as of December 1977 on which data is available, total investment
of Shs 1,043.9 million is estimated to have created employment opportunities
for some 25,000 people. This gives an investment cost per job created of
US$3,480 at the shadow exchange rate, which is quite low.
Resources
3.27      Until March 1977, when TDFL was able to borrow foreign resources
from EIB, all its resources were in local currency and were provided in full
by the four shareholders. The resource position as of March 31, 1979 is shown
in the basic data. Local resources consisted mainly of the Shs 100 million of
issued capital and Shs 80 million of unsecured non-cumulative income notes
provided in equal amounts each by the shareholders. These income notes are
a peculiar form of long term debt with quasi equity features. They bear a
maximum interest rate of 8% per annum, but the actual rate payable in any
given year is dependent upon the profits available before income note interest.
The notes are redeemable in full on December 31, 2000, but can be fully
or partly converted to TDFL ordinary shares by the holders if they wish. In



- 18 -
addition the subscription agreement specifies certain conditions under which
the noteholders can call for an early redemption. These include dissolution
of TDFL, default on any covenants under the agreement by TDFL, or national-
ization of TDFL by the Government of Tanzania. For purposes of the Loan
Agreement with TDFL, the Bank has defined these income notes as long term
debt.
3.28      Foreign currency resources consisted of an EIB convertible bond
of European Unit of Account (EUA) 2.5 million (about Shs 28.10 million) and a
CBC line of credit of Shs 23.7 million equivalent. The Bond is unsecured and
bears a non-cumulative maximum interest rate of 5-7/8%; it is redeemable on
October 3, 1988. As with the income notes, the actual interest rate payable
in any given year will depend on TDFL's profitability. EIB has the option to
convert it fully or partly into non-voting shares. The CDC line of credit is
at an 8% interest rate and is repayable in equal installments over the last 16
years of a 20 year maturity period. The loan is unsecured.
Portfolio
3.29      A summary of TDFL's portfolio as of December 31, 1978 indicating
the status of the projects assisted is provided below.
Summary Analysis of Portfolio (Amount in Shs Million)
Equity          Loans    Income Notes       Total
A. Operating Projects          No.  Amount   No.  Amount  No.  Amount   No. Amount   %
Profitable Companies        28    22.4    31    47.0    2       3.5    44   72.9   53
Unprofitable Companies       6    10.0      8    19.8    1      1.3    10   31.1   22
of which; minor problems (4)   (6.7)   (3)   (7.6)  (-)    (-)    (5) (14.3) (10)
major problems (2)   (3.3)   (5)  (12.2)  (1)   (1-3)   (5) (16.8) (12)
Subtotal               34    32.4    39    66.8    3        4.8    54  104.0   75
B. Projects Under
Implementation              11    12.7      9    21.2    1      1.2    11   35.1   25
TOTAL Portfolio        45    45.1    48    88.0    4        6.0    65  139.1  100
3.30      Considering that only 5 out of 65 projects, accounting in amounts
for 12% of the portfolio, face uncertain prospects because of major problems,
the quality of the portfolio can be said to be fairly good. The problems
faced by 4 of these projects stem from fundamental mistakes in project design,
while the fifth, a tourist project, is faced with severe management problems.
Among the 4, 2 are operating at levels well below their breakeven points
because of persistent shortages of raw materials, which were planned to be
produced locally. Both are agro-processing projects and rehabilitation
efforts on them are in progress. There is a likelihood of TDFL receiving a



- 19 -
Government guarantee on its investments in one of them. Of the remaining 2,
one is TDFL's only investment in a mining project. There are doubts about the
feasibility of this project, and a study is in progress to determine whether
it should continue operating or whether it should be liquidated. The second,
a tourist hotel, has consistently faced poor demand, and was almost completely
burnt down recently. A rehabilitation program is under implementation.
Significantly, all 5 projects are non-manufacturing enterprises, and 4 are
parastatal projects. It appears therefore that TDFL has been quite successful
in its main area of private manufacturing projects. TDFL has taken due
account of the status of these projects in making its provisions against the
portfolio. Overall, it has written down its investments in these 5 projects
by Shs 11.5 million (60% of total investment in them), whilst provisions on
other projects amount to Shs 5.6 million. It has however also taken account
of increases in the value of its profitable equity investments in determining
how much of these provisions to charge against income. Thus Shs 8.4 million,
representing portions of TDFL's share of retained earnings and bonus issues
reflecting retained earnings, in such equity investments has been offset
against the Shs 14.3 million, bringing total provisions against the portfolio
to Shs 8.7 million.
3.31      TDFL has succeeded in keeping the arrears on the loan portfolio at
a reasonably low level. The total amount of interest and principal in arrears
over three months, as of December 31, 1978, was Shs 8.8 million. The principal
outstanding in the affected projects was Shs 22.0 million, amounting to
25% of the loan portfolio. Because the projects involved are some of those
with uncertain prospects, some rescheduling of repayments may be necessary.
Financial Performance and Situation
3.32      TDFL has been a reasonably profitable development bank.  Its gross
profit averaged 4.2% of its average total assets for the years 1975 through
1978, but mainly because of a high level of provisions, its net profit averaged
only 1.4% over the same period. 1/ Partly because of this high level of pro-
visions (54% of the profits before provisions for the years 1975 through 1978
were set aside for provisions) and partly because of underutilization of debt
financing (long term debt/equity ratios averaged 1.5/1 for the years 1975
through 1978), the return on TDFL's net worth has been modest, with net profit
averaging only 3.2% of average net worth between 1975 and 1978. Details of
TDFL's income and expenses over the past five years, and relevant financial
and operating ratios, are shown in Annexes 3 and 8. An important source of
income, in addition to interest and dividends,has been management fees from
TDFL's 4 subsidiaries. TDFL has preferred to take its return on investments
in these subsidiaries in this form rather than as dividends, because such
management fees are tax deductible for the subsidiaries. Even with this
approach, the dividend yield on the equity portfolio has been improving. It
averaged 9.4% in 1977 and 1978, compared to an average income on the loan
1/   This compares with a gross profit to average total assets of 3.3% for
TIB and 2.1% for INDEBANK (Malawi) and a net profit to average total
asset ratios respectively of 1.7% and 1.2% over the same period.



- 20 -
portfolio of 7.9% for the same period. While administative expenses as a
percentage of average total assets have fluctuated between 4% and 2.6% over
the past five years, financial expenses have climbed steadily from 3.0% to
4.9%.
3.33      In spite of the modest net profit it has been earning, TDFL has
been paying regular dividends since 1975. These payments have yielded an
average return of 2.3% on paid up common shares. To enable it to declare
these dividends, TDFL has had to obtain a special waiver from the Tanzanian
Government on the dividend provisions of the companies act of 1972. Under
these provisions a company is prevented from declaring any dividends until its
reserves reach a minimum of 25% of its paid up capital. The waivers so far
granted to TDFL have restricted it to declare dividends up to 50% of post
taxation profits after write offs of bad debts. TDFL has agreed with the Bank
to stick to this maximum 50% payout ratio in the future, to permit it to
plough back more internal resources for operations.
3.34      Annexes 4 and 8 show TDFL's past balance sheets and relevant ratios
on financial situation. The financial situation has been characterized by
low current ratios, low long term debt to equity ratios, and a relatively
high ratio of provisions to the portfolio. TDFL has been able to draw down
on committed resources to finance operational needs at short notice, and
hence has adopted a policy of keeping liquid assets at a low level. On
leverage, although its articles of association stipulate a maximum long term
debt to equity ratio of 3.1, it is yet to approach this limit because it has
had to draw down on its equity to finance the relatively large proportion of
its operations in the form of equity investments. TDFL has agreed to maintain
this debt equity limit at 3.1. For the purposes of this covenant, TDFL's
income notes will be considered as long term debt. In addition, the con-
solidated debt and equity of TDFL, for purposes of this covenant, will be
defined to include the debt and equity of its four subsidiaries. While the
level of provisions may appear rather high in relation to the quality of the
portfolio, this conservatism is quite prudent given the economic environment
in which TDFL operates. Overall, TDFL has managed its finances creditably,
and its financial situation remains quite sound.
C.   Prospects
TDFL's Strategy
3.35      TDFL's operations over the coming 3 to 5 year period will be guided
by a strategy designed to increase its impact on development.  This strategy
is incorporated in a strategy paper, a copy of which is in the project file.
In keeping with the increasing role that the Government expects the private
sector to play in the industrial development of Tanzania, TDFL's strategy will
be to expand its promotion and financing activities to meet a greater propor-
tion of the needs of the sector. Because the medium size of projects it
assists will preclude it from playing a major role in assisting large export
oriented projects, it will concentrate its promotion activities in those



- 21 -
import substituting industries where medium scale enterprises could be effi-
cient producers. Specifically, and in line with Tanzanian's Basic Industrial
Strategy, it will actively promote projects which meet basic needs (clothing,
construction materials and food), and some basic industries (chemicals, and
projects in the metalworking and engineering area). In undertaking these
activities, it will seek to diversify the source of its clientela and contri-
bute to the development of indigenous private industrialists by assisting, on
a selective basis, smaller projects sponsored by such entrepreneurs. It will
also consider joint venture projects with the more effective District Develop-
ment Corporations. To finance the planned increase in operations, it will
seek to diversify its sources of funds. Finally, it will build up the staff
and organizational capacity to perform these tasks. This strategy is suitable
for TDFL and within its capability to implement.
Forecast Operations
3.36      In continuation of the growth process which started in 1975, TDFL
expects to attain a level of approvals of Shs 90 million in 1979, and to reach
a new annual level of Shs 100 million by 1980. It plans to stabilize and
consolidate operations at that annual level through 1983. The proportion of
approvals in the form of equity is projected to increase from the average of
21% of total approvals experienced in recent years, to an average of 33% over
the next five years because TDFL expects to play an increasing role in pro-
moting the projects it will finance.
3.37      To attain this level of operations, TDFL has a long list of project
proposals and ideas under study. The majority of these projects are in the
manufacturing sector, and involve the types of basic products and processes
which can be efficiently undertaken on a medium scale basis. With Tanzania's
Basic Industrial Strategy in mind the proposals and ideas include projects
that use iron and steel such as bolts and nuts manufacturing, steel rolling,
and wiregauze manufacturing; chemical projects such as production of indus-
trial alcohol and of carbon dioxide; and construction material projects such
as stone quarrying, sawmilling, and manufacture of PVC tiles. In addition to
these projects, TDFL expects to receive a constant flow of financing applica-
tions from local private investors.
Forecast Financial Prospects
3.38      Projected income statements, balance sheets and ratios for TDFL
for 1979-1983 are shown in Annexes 6 through 9.  The assumptions underlying
these projections are in the project file. No significant increases are
expected in the rate of return on the total portfolio, but with new income
from rental of portions of TDFL's new office building, with continued tight
control of expenses, and with a lower level of provisions than in the past,
TDFL's profitability is projected to increase slightly. Net profits as a
percentage of average total assets are expected to increase gradually from
the 1.1% experienced in 1978 to 2.1% by 1983. The return on equity (net
worth) is expected to increase, partly because of this increased profit-
ability, and partly because of greater use of debt financing, from the 3.6%



- 22 -
experienced in 1978 to 5.9% by 1983. Because of the proposed restriction
on the payment of dividends however, the dividend yield for shareholders is
not expected to top 3.5%. TDFL's financial situation is expected to remain
good. The projected debt/equity ratios show that the limit of 3:1 will not
be reached in spite of increasing use of debt finance. This is because
TDFL will continue to raise large amounts of new equity to finance its
expected investments in equity. The liquidity situation is expected to
be in line with past experience, and enough cash is expected to be generated
internally to service the increased debt.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Description, Objectives and Justification
4.01      The project involves provision of a line of credit to TDFL to
finance medium scale industrial and related service projects, agro-processing
and tourism development projects through 1981. It is designed with two major
objectives in mind:
(a) to increase the effectiveness of TDFL in resource allocation
in Tanzania, by providing it with policy, institutional and
operational advice; and
(b) to contribute to the foreign exchange resource available
for medium sized investment in the sectors involved.
4.02      The main justification for this project is the desire of the Bank
Group to enhance the role of financial intermediaries in Tanzania in resource
allocation because of their proven relative effectiveness in that area. In
addition, TDFL has proven itself an effective institutional source of finan-
cial and technical assistance to medium scale private projects. Such projects
have contributed, and will continue to contribute significantly to industrial
output, value added, and employment. By becoming associated with TDFL at this
time through a lending operation, the Bank Group will have an opportunity to
assist such projects.
B.   Costs and Financing
4.03      Between January 1979 and December 1981, TDFL is projected to commit
Shs 280 million to projects, broken down as follows:
Projected Commitment (Shs million)
Foreign     Local       Total
Loans                               132         56          188
Equity                               64         28          92
Total                               196         84         280



- 23 -
The estimated 70% foreign component of these commitments represents an aver-
aging of the expected direct and indirect import component of subproject
expenditures to be financed with TDFL's loans and equity investments. The
indirect component will involve such items as locally procured vehicles
and construction materials for civil works.
4.04      To finance these commitments the following financing plan is
proposed.
Financing Plan (Shs Million)
Foreign    Local      Total
Total Commitments                            196        84         280
Resources Available as of 1/1/79              -         25          25
Resource Gap                                 196        59         255
New Resources
EIB II                                  50          -          50
IBRD I                                  91          -         91
Internal Cash Generation                 -         59         59
141        59         200
Unidentified Finance                         55         _           55
TOTAL                                  196         59         255
4.05      EIB's second loan is still under negotiations, but is expected to
be available in 1979. The proposed Bank Loan will meet about 35% of TDFL's
total resource requirements between 1979 and 1981, and about 45% of the
foreign resource requirements. In addition to EIB and the Bank, TDFL will
need to raise Shs 55.0 million in new foreign resources. In this connection,
it has contacted IFC for a possible share subscription, which, if provided,
will prove invaluable for financing portions of TDFL's planned investments
in equity. Other financiers TDFL plans to contact include the African
Development Bank, BADEA and Norwegian, Swedish and Canadian financial and aid
institutions.
C.   Terms and Conditions of the Proposed Loan
4.06      The proposed Bank Loan to TDFL will carry the following terms and
conditions:
(a) Eligibility: The Loan will be available for financing
subloans and equity investments in subprojects in the
industrial, transport, agro-processing and tourism sectors.



- 24 -
(b) Free Limits: The individual free limit on subloans will
be US$250,000 and the aggregate free limit US$3.5 million.
Equity investments to be made out of the proceeds of the
loan will require prior Bank approval irrespective of the
amount involved. This will permit the Bank to review at
least 70% of the subprojects to be financed.
(c) On-Lending Rate: The on-lending rate will be a minimum
of 11% per annum. As mentioned in paragraph 3.20 this is
expected to be positive in real terms, give TDFL an ade-
quate spread, and is comparable to on-lending rates of
similar institutions in Tanzania. The Bank and TDFL will
review this on-lending rate periodically to ensure that
TDFL continues to lend at a rate which is positive in real
terms, yields an adequate spread, and is competitive.
(d) Foreign Exchange Risk: The foreign exchange risk on sub-
loans will be fully passed on to the subborrowers. For
any portion of the loan that TDFL intends to use for equity
investments, it will be required to submit at the time the
proposed project is presented for Bank approval, a satis-
factory plan for covering its exposure to the related
foreign exchange risk.
(e) Amortization: The amortization will be the aggregate of
the amortization schedules for subloans and investments.
(f) Debt/Equity Limit: During the life of the Loan TDFL's
debt/equity ratio will not exceed the limit of 3:1.
D.   Project Implementation
4.07      Reporting Requirements:  TDFL will submit quarterly reports which
will include a summary of operations, financial statements, resource position,
statement of loan arrears, and notes on subprojects which are encountering
serious operational difficulties. It will also submit audited annual accounts
prepared by qualified accountants in accordance with the Bank's requirements
for DFCs, within four months of the end of each financial year.
4.08      Procurement:  Procurement for the subprojects financed under the
Loan will be in accordance with TDFL's existing procurement policy (para.
3.17).
4.09      Disbursement:  The proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed for
authorized TDFL subloans and investments as follows:
(a) 100% of the foreign cost of imported goods;
(b) 65% of the local cost of previously imported goods; and
(c) 40% of the total cost of civil works.



- 25 -
4.10      The estimated disbursement schedule for the Loan is shown in
Annex 10. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1983,
two years after the completion of commitments.
E.   Benefits and Risks
4.11      As noted in Chapter I of this report, privately owned medium scale
projects have continued to play an important role in Tanzania's industrial
sector despite the rapid growth of parastatals.  By increasing the resources
available for investment in such projects, and by improving the allocation
of these resources through the strengthening of TDFL, the project will con-
tribute to the growth of industrial output to meet basic needs in Tanzania,
and generate significant employment benefits. While it is difficult to
quantify these benefits in a rate of return calculation (ref. para. 3.14), the
loan of Shs 91 million will, on the basis of the historical average proportion
of total project costs that TDFL has financed, lead to a total investment of
about Shs 455 million (US$55 million). TDFL's average investment cost per
job in the past was US$3,480. Allowing for inflation, and assuming that about
20% of projects to be financed under the loan would be for modernization/
rehabilitation, the Loan would lead to the creation of 6,500 to 7,000 jobs.
4.12      The subprojects to be financed under this project will be exposed
to the normal risk that most industrial enterprises face in Tanzania, when
foreign exchange resources become scarce and there is a severe cutback on
imports of raw materials and spare parts for industrial activities. In
addition to this normal risk, the growth of TDFL may place strains on its
organization, staffing and procedures and prevent it from being fully effec-
tive during project implementation. In this connection, adequate plans have
been made to adapt the institution to the expected higher level of investment
approvals, and the larger portfolio to be supervised. The implementation of
these plans will need to be closely monitored for unforeseen problems that
may emerge.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01      A Bank Loan of US$11.0 million for TDFL to meet part of its foreign
exchange resource requirements through December 1981 is recommended. During
negotiations between the Bank and TDFL, agreement was reached on the proposed
terms (para 4.06), and the following subjects:
(a)  that TDFL's policy statement, including the following
amendments and additions will not be materially
changed without prior consultation with the Bank
(paras 3.09 and 3.11);
(i) increase in the single maximum investment per project
to Shs 12.0 million;
(ii) increase of its normal maximum contribution to a
projects capital cost to 60%; and



- 26 -
(iii) introduction of a clause specifying that it will
always protect itself against exchange risks arising
out of foreign borrowings.
(b) that TDFL's normal total investments in equity will be
limited to its own paid up capital plus unimpaired reserves
(para 3.12);
(c)  that TDFL will use the economic rate of return criterion in
appraising projects in which its financial contribution will
exceed the equivalent of US$250,000 (para 3.14);
(d) that TDFL will prepare a satisfactory operations manual and
submit a copy to the Bank by December 31, 1979 (para 3.16);
(e) that TDFL will restrict its dividend declaration to 50% of
after tax profits and after bad debt write offs, until it
accumulates reserves up to 25% of paid up capital
(para 3.33).



-27-
ANNEX 1
TANZANIA
Structure of Output and Employment in Large Scale Manufacturing
In Tanzania 1972-1976
Absolute Amount (in current terms)
(Shs Million)              Share Total (%)
I.  Output                          1972      1974     1976*    1972      1974      1976
Consumer Goods                 1.533.1  2.044.9  2.639.4   61.3       53.0      50.3
Food Processing               752.9    925.5   1,057.6   30.1       24.0      20.2
Beverages                     128.7    178.6      277.5    5.1       4.6       5.3
Tobacco Manufacturing         1.07.6    162.4     232.4    4.3       4.2       4.4
Manufacture of Textiles       429.9    599.9      816.1   17.2      15.6      15.6
Manufacture of Footwear
and Other Apparel           114.0    178.5      255.8    4.6       4.6       4.8
Intermediate Goods              711.4   1,406.9  2,026.7   28.4       36.5      38.6
Wood (except furniture)        49.3      63.9      93.2    1.9       1.6       1.7
Furniture & Fixtures           22.8      28.6      34.4    0.9       0.7       0.7
Paper Products, Printing
and Publishing               77.3    173.9      239.1    3.1       4.5       4.6
Leather Products               29.6      48.5      61.8    1.2       1.3       1.2
Rubber Products                65.3    141.1      189.3    2.6       3.7       3.6
Chemicals, Chemical
Products, Petroleum         230.0    519.9      773.9    9.2      13.5      14.7
Non-metallic Mineral
Products                     61.6      92.6     119.8    2.5       2.4       2.3
Basic Metals, & Metal
Products                    175.5    338.4      515.2    7.0       8.8       9.8
Capital Goods                   187.8    296.0      428.5    7.5       7.7       8.2
Manufacture & Repair of
of Machinery                 72.2    102.5      169.0    2.9       2.7       3.2
Assembly & Repairs of
Transport Equipment         115.6    192.5      259.5    4.6       5.0       5.0
Other Manufacturing              70.1    108.7      151.6    2.8       2.8       2.9
TOTAL                       2,502.5  3,856.5   5,246.2  100.0    100.0    100.0
II_,. Employment
Number (in 000's)           Share Total (%)
Consumer Goods                 44.7      48.7      52.4   71.1      69.3      69.4
Intermediate Goods             14.6      17.2      18.5   23.2      24.5      24.5
Capital Goods                   2.3       3.1       3.3    3.6       4.4       4.4
Other Manufacturing             1.3       1.3       1.3    2.1       1.8       1.7
TOTAL                        62.9      70.3      75.5  100.0    100.0    100.0
Source: Government of Tanzania Economic Surveys: 1975-76 and 1977-78
* Provisional
EAPID June, 1979



-28-
ANNEX 2
TANZANIA
Interest Rate Structure in Tanzania
1976           1977           July 1978
1. Bank of Tanzania
Rediscounts and Advances
Commercial Bills
Crop:    90 days                      5.00            5.00             5.00
91 - 180 days                5.00           5.50             5.50
Other:   90 days                   5.25-6.00      5.25-6.00         5.25-6.00
91 - 180 days            5.75-6.50       5.75-6.50        5.75-6.50
Treasury Bills (35 days)
Rediscounts                           4.27            4.27             4.27
Advances                               4.77           4.77             4.77
2. National Bank of Commerce
Deposits
Savings                               4.00            4.00             5.00
Fixed
up to 91 days                         -             3.50             3.50
3 - 6 months                        4.00           4.00              4.00
6 - 9 months                        4.25           4.25              4.25
9 - 12 months                       4.50            4.50             4.50
1 - 2 years                         5.00           5.00              6.00
2 - 3 years                           -               -              6.50
3 years and above                     _              _               7.00
Lending                              6.00-10.50    6.50-10.50         7.5-11.50
3. Post Office Savings Bank
Deposits
Savings                               4.00            4.00             5.00
Fixed
1 - 2 years                           -               -              6.00
2 - 3 years                           -               -              6.50
3 years and above                     _              _               7.00
4. Tanzania Housing Bank
Deposits
Savings                                4.50           4.50             5.00
Deposit Account                        5.50           3.50             5.50
Fixed
1 - 2 years                         5.50           6.00              6.00
2 - 3 years                         5.50            6.50             6.50
3 years and up                        -               -              7.00
Lending                            5.00-10.00    5.00-10.00         5.00-11.00
5. Tanzania Rural Development Bank
Short Term Lending                       8.50           8.50             7.50
Long Term Lending                        7.50           7.50             7.50 -
6.  Tanzania Investment Bank                  10.00        10.00-11.00       7.5-12.001/
7.  Fast African Development Bank             10.00          11.00             11.00
8.  Tanganyika Development Finance Co.Ltd  9.00-9.50  10.00-11.50          11.00-12.00
1/ The July 1978 rates were mandated by the Bank of Tanzania, and are the
subject of dispute between it and TRDB and TIB.
EAPID
June, 1979



-29-
ANNM 3
TANGANYIKA DEIVEOPNENT FINANCE COMPANY LTD (TDFL)
Summarised Income Statements 1974 - 1978
(Amounts in Shs OOO's)
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
Income
Interest                           3,683  4,061  4,849  4,930  5,956
Dividends                          1,180  1,069  2,252  3,163  3,535
Other                                602  2,646  2,888  3,991  4,949
T 0 T A L:                         5,465  8,376  9,989 12,084 14,440
ftPenses
Administration                     1,543  1,744  2,193  2,584  3,670
Depreciation                          96     98    106      97    123
Pinance Charges                    1,958  2,667  3,001  3,720  5,850
Provisions for doubtful debts        989    350    510    966    859
4,586  4,859  5,810  7,367 10,502
Profit before tax                    879  3,516  4,179  4,717  3,938
Tax                                  223  1,346  1,637  1,635  1,489
Profit after tax                     656  2,170  2 542  3,082  2,449
Provision Against Investment Loss  -   (2,000)  (500)(2,000)(1,000)
Profit (Loss) on Sale of
Investment                           -      469   -         14      37
Net Profit                           656    639  2,042  1,096  1,486
Less Dividends                       -      600  1,200  1,000  1,200
Retained Profit                      656     39    842      96    286
rAPID
June, 1979



-30-
AIM 4
TANGANYIXA DRELOPKINT MUNAJBC COOANY LfD (!DFL)
221974.2I=      1976    1917    197
ASSBBS
Current
Debtors                               3,740    3,686   4,148   5,660   7,925
Cash                                      6    7,610   4,440  10,206   2,957
Other (Mainly Taxation Recoverable)   214         383     333      333     333
3,690   11,679   8,921  16,199: 11,215
Portfolio
Equity                               19,232   19,051  27,464  35,934  45,140
Loans                                52,882   53,597  54,895  58,155  88,415
Income Notes                           -        1,260   2,260   5,360   5,960
72,114   73,908  84,619  99,449 139,515
Less Provisions                       3,158    5,158   5,658   7,658   8,658
Net Portfolio                        68,956   68,750  78,961  91,790 130,857
Pixed Assets (Not)                    1,078    1,036   1,250   7,011  14,237
Iotal Assets                   73,724   81,465  89,132 115,000 156,309
LIABILITIBS AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Creditors                             2,026    2,888   2,911   4,956   7,444
Taxation                               -        1,235   1,508   1,425      948
Current Maturities of Term Debt        -        -       4,000   4,000       98
Dividends                              -          600   1,800   2,200   34.00
Other                                 1,143     -        -_       -       -
3,169    4,723  10,219  12,581  11,890
Long Term Liabilities
Unsecured Income Notes               29,600   31,600  33,800  60,000  80,000
Unsecured Loans                        -       4,000   3,000    -        4,000
Secured Loans                          -        -        -       -       2,902
Deferred Taxation                       223       471     601      811   1,300
EIB  Bond                              -        -        -        -     14,323
CDC  Loan                              -        -        -       -
29,923   36,071  37,401  60,811 102,525
Share Capital                        40,000   40,000  40,000  40,000  40,000
Reserves                                632       671   1,512   1,609   1,894
40,632   40,671  41,512  41,608  41,894
Total LiabilitieB and Equit;r
73,724   81,465  89,132 115,000 156,309
EAPID
June, 1979



TANGANYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE C0AI'ANY LTD (TDFL)
Actual and Projected Operations 1962 - 1983
(In She. 000's)
Actual                                                        Projected
1962 -
1973            1974        1975        1976        1977        1978         1979        1980         1981        1982         1983
A=QYALS
Equity        18,858            2,800      6,900        3,400        7,123     16,430         30,000     33,000        32,000      31,500     33,500
Loans         70,086           12,800     23,932       25,642       38,542     40,923         60,000     67,000       68,000       68,500     66,500
TOTAL         88,944           15,600     30,832       29,042       45,665     57,353         90,000    100,000      100,000      100,000    100,000
CONIMTMENTS
Equity        18,858            2,800      6,900        3,400        7,123     16,430         27,000     32,700        32,100      31,550     33,300 
Loans         70,086           12,800     23,932        25,642      38,542     40,923         54,000     66,300        67,900      68,450     66,700 ~
TOTAL         88,944           15,600     30,832       29,042       45,665     57,353         81,000     99,000      100,000      100,000    100,000
DISBURSDENTS
Equity        16,309            4,204        168        8,414        8,763     -9,383         16,050     25,933        30,182      31,689     32,316
Loans         51,249           19,450      5,833        9,232       14,360    39t219          44,731     56,699        64,809      66,603     67,921
TOTAL         67,558           23,654      6,001       17,646       23,123     48,602         60,781     82,632        94,991      98,292    100,237
Stj
I,-



-32-
ANNEX 6
TANGANYIKA DEVELOPNENT FINANCE COMPANY LTD (TDFL)
Projected Income Statements (1979-1983)
In Shs 000's
1979     1980      1981      1982      1983
INCOME
Interest, Commitment and
Appraisal Fees                11,048   15,781   20,961   26,141   30,758
Dividends                        4,495    6,280    8,665   11,294   14,015
Directors and Management
Fees                           3,800    4,500    5,000    5,500    6,000
Rental Income 1/                 2,103    2,081    2,058    2,034    2,009
21,446   28,642   36,684   44,969   52,782
EXPENSES
Administration                   4,452    6,424    8,037    8,865    9,763
Depreciation                       541       541       541       541       541
Finance Charges                 10,091   12,203   14,302   18,290   20,858
15,084   19,168   22,883   27,696   31,162
Profit Before Tax                6,362    9,474   13,804   17,273   21,620
Tax                              2,863    4,263    6,212    7,773    9,729
Profit After Tax                 3,499    5,211    7,592    9,500   11,891
Provisions                       1,216    1,653    1,900    1,966    2,005
Net Profit                        2,283    3,558    5,692    7,534    9,886
Dividends                         1,750    2,605    3,796    4,750    5,945
Retained Profit                     533      953    1,896    2,789    3,941
1/ Net of maintenance expenses
EAPID -
June, 1979



-33-
-33-                            ANNEX 7
TANGANYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY LTD (TDFL)
Projected Balance Sheets (1979-1983)
In Shs ooo's
As of December 31                      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982     1983
ASSETS
Current
Cash and Short Term Deposits       2,957    7,903    3,962    1,076    6,258    1,032
Debtors                            8,258    8,258    8,258    8,258    8,258    8,258
Current Maturities
Portfolio Loans                 9,568   15,724   18,556   23,610   30,447   36,587
20,783   31,885   30,776   32,944   44,963   45,877
Portfolio
Equity                            45,140   61,190   87,123  117,305  148,994  181,310
Loans                             84,193  113,200  151,643  192,842  228,998  260,332
129,333  174,390  238,766  310,147  377,992  441,642
Less Provisions                    8,658    9,874   11,527   13,427   15,393   17,398
120,675  164,516  227,239  296,720  362,599  424,244
Net Fixed Assets                  14,237   20,886   20,595   20,354   20,113   19,872
Staff Housing Loans                  614       744      859       964    1,059    1,144
156,309  218.031  279.A69  350.,.          4 928_34  4=1,13
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accrued Payments                  11,792   11,902   14,918   18,058   20,573   23,724
Current Maturities of Term
Debt                               98     -767    4,767        767    3,289   11,291
11,890- 12,669.  19,685   18,825   23,862   35,015
L.T. Liabilities
Income Notes                      80,000   80,000   80,000   80,000   80,000   80,000
EIB I                             14,323   28,100   28,100   28,100   28,100   28,100
EIB II                              -        -       12,426   33,000   41,225   43,511
CDC                                 -      23,700   23,700   23,700   23,700   23,700
IBRD                                _        -        5,810   46,480   73,953   84,743
Secured and Unsecured Loans        6,902   11,135    6,368    5,601    4,834    4,067
Other                               -        -         -        -         -       10,000
Deferred Taxation                  1,300     -         -        -         -         -
102,525  142,935  156,404  216,881  251,812  274,121
Equity
Share Capital                     40,000   60,000  100,000  110,000  145,000  170,000
Retained Profits                   1,894    2,427    3,380    5,276    8,060   12,000
41,894   62,427  103,380  115,276  153,060  182,001
156X309  218.031  279.fi469  350.982  42 8734  491l137
EAPID
June, 1979



-34-
ANNEX 8
TANGANYIKA DEVELOPNENT FINANCE COMPANY LTD; (TDFL)
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds (1979-1983)
In Shs 000's
SOURCES                               1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
From Operations                    14,192   18,065   22,395   25,864   30,211
Loan Collections                    9,568   15,724   18,566   23,610   30,447
New Equity                         20,000   40,000   10,000   35,000   25,000
43,760   73,789   50,951   84,474   85,658
Loans
EIB I                              13,777     -         -         -        -
EIB II                               -      12,426   20,574   10,000    7,000
CDC                                23,700     -         -         -        -
IBRD                                 -       5,810   40,670   28,220   16,600
Secured Local Currency              5,000     -         -         -        -
Unidentified Loans                   -        -         -         -      10,000
Subtotal                         42,477   18,236   61,244   38,220   33,600
Other (Staff Housing Loans)            20        35       45        55       65
TOTAL                           86.257   92.06O  1l2g240  122Z749. 119 323
USES
Operations
Equity                           16,050   25,933   30,182   31,689   32,316
Loans & Income Notes             44,731   56,999   64,809   66,603   67,921
60,781   82,932   94,991   98,292  100,237
Fixed Assets                        7,190      250       300       300      300
Repayment of Borrowings
EIB II                             -        -         -        -        1,775
'IBRD                              _ -            -             -          747
Secured Loans                        98      767    4,767        767      767
98      767    4,767       767    3,289
Taxes and Dividends                 4,348    4,613    6,868   10,008   12,523
Creditors (Income Note & EIB
Bond Interest'                 7,444    7,289    8,050    8,050    8,050
Other (Staff Housing Loans)           150      150       150       150      150
Deferred Taxation                   1,300     -         -        -         -
TOTAL                           31lz3ll  96.,001  115a,=126  l17567  124549
Increase/d&crease) in
Bank Balance                   4,946   (3,941)  (2,886)   5,182   (5,226)
EAPID
June, 1979



TANGANYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY LTD. (TDFL)
Financial Ratios (1974-1983)
Actual                                         Projected
Year Ending December 31                                                            1974     1975      1976       1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982      1983
A. Income Statement Items as 7. of Average Total Assets
Gross Income                                                                 8.3      10.8      11.7      11.8      10.6      11.5      11.3     11.5      11.5      11.5
Financial Expenses                                                           3.0       3.4       3.5       4.6       4.9       5.4       4.9      4.5       4.7       4.5
Administrative Expenses                                                      4.0       2.8       3.3       2.6       2.8       2.7 1   2.8         2.7      2.4       2.2
Gross Profit                                                                 1.3       4.5       4.9       4.6       2.9       3.4       3.8      4.4       4.4       4.7
Net Profit                                                                   1.0       0.8       2.4       1.1       1.1       1.2       1.4      1.8       1.9       2.1
B. Selected Income and Cost Items
Dividend Income as % of Average Equity Portfolio                             6.9       5.6       9.7      10.0       8.7       8.5       8.5      8.5       8.5       8.5
Income from Loans as Z of Average Loan Portfolio                             8.2       8.7       8.7       8.2       7.5       9.9     10.7      10.8      11.0      il.1
Gross Portfolio Income as % of Average Portfolio                             8.8      11.5      12.6      13.1      12.1      11.8      12.0     11.7      il.7      11.5
Cost of Debt as % of Average Long Term Debt                                  8.6       8.1       8.3       7.6       7.2       8.2       8.2      7.7       7.8       7.9
C.  Profitability
Net Profit as % of Year-End Networth                                         1.6       1.6       4.9       2.6       3.5       3.7       3.4      4.9       4.9       5.4
Net Profit as % of Average Networth                                          1.6       1.6       5.0       2.6       3,6       4.4       4.3      5.2       5.6       5.9
Dividend Payments as % of Paid In Common Shares                               -        1.5       3.0       2.5       3.0       2.9       2.6      3.6       3.3       3.5
Dividend Payment Ratio (%)                                                    -       50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0     50.0      50.0      50.0
D. Financial Structure
Current Ratio                                                               1.2/1    2.5/1    0.9/1    1.3/1    1.7/1    2.5/1    1.6/1    1.8/1    1.9/1    1.3/1
Long Term Debt/Equity                                                       0.7/1    0.9/1    0.9/1    1.5/1    2.6/1    2.3/1    1.5/1    1.9/1    1,6/1    1.5/1
Provisions as of Portfolio                                                   4.4       7.0       6.7       7.7      6.2       5.2      4.5       4.0       3.8       3.6
E. Debt Coverage
Debt Service Ratio                                                           -          -         -         -         -       3.4       3.8      2.7       4.0       3.9
4~



-36-
ANNEX 10
TANGANYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY LTD. (TDFL)
Prolected Schedule of Disbursements of Proposed Bank Loan
IBRD FY                                       Cumulative Disbursements
Amount in $ 000
1981
October - December                                 700
January - March                                  1,900
April   - June                                   4,600-
1982
July    - September                              4,900
October - December                               5,600
January - March                                  7,000
April   - June                                   8,000
1983
July    - September                              9,000
October - December                               9,500
January - March                                10,000
April   - June
1984
July    - September                             10,500
October - December                              11,000
EAPID
June, 1979



-37-
ANNEX 11
TANGANYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY LTD. (TDFL)
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports on the Sectors
A.1   The United Republic of Tanzania:  The Economic Surveys 1975-76
and 1977-78
A.2   The United Republic of Tanzania:  Speech by the Minister of
Industries to the Budget Session of the National Assembly
for the 1978-79 Session
A.3   The United Republic of Tanzania:  Speech by the Minister of
Finance to the Budget Session of the National Assembly
introducing estimates of Public Revenue and Expenditure
for 1978-79 and the Development Plan for 1978/79
A.4   Bank of Tanzania, Economic Bulletin, March 1978
A. 5   Financial Institutions
B.   General Reports Relating to the Project
B.1   TDFL:  Annual Reports 1974-1977
B.2   TDFL:  Replies to the Questionnaire of the IBRD Mission
B.3   TDFL:  Selected Working Papers on Projections
B.4   TDFL:  Various Shareholders Agreements
EAPID
June, 1979



