Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                   F            COPY
Report No. P-2600-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
TANGANYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
June 8, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1.00                          TSh 8.30
TSh 1.0                     =   US$0.12
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation
to a basket of currencies, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to TSh 8.30 which is close to
the recent average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIS       =   Basic Industrial Strategy
CDC       =   Commonwealth Development Corporation
DEG       =   Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Wirtschaftliche
Zusammenarbeit
EADB          East African Development Bank
EIB       =   European Investment Bank
FMO       =   Nederlandse Financierings - Maatschappij Voor
Ontwikkelingslanden N.V.
KfW       =   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
SIDO      =   Small Industries Development Organization
SSI       =   Small Scale Industries
TDFL      =   Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
TIB       =   Tanzania Investment Bank
TRDB      =   Tanzania Rural Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
TDFL      : January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
TANGANYIKA. DEVELOPMENT FTIANCE COMPANY, LTD.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:         Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd. (TDFL)
GUARANTOR:        United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:           US$11.0 million equivalent
TERMS:            Repayable substantially in conformity with the aggregate
amortization schedule for sub-loans and investments for
which withdrawals from the loan account are approved or
authorized. Interest rate would be 7.9Z per annum.
RELENDING
TERMS:           TDFL would relend the proceeds of the loan at its standard
interest rate, presently 11% per annum.  The maximum maturity
of sub-loans will be 15 years including adequate grace
periods. The exchange risk would be assumed fully by
sub-borrowers.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:    The proposed project would provide a line of credit to TDFL
to finance its projected lending to medium scale industrial
enterprises and related services, agro-processing and tourism
development projects through December 1981. The project aims
to further improve and enhance the role of financial inter-
mediaries in resource allocation in Tanzania, and to con-
tribute to the foreign exchange resources available for
medium size investment in the sectors involved.
FINAL DATE OF
PROJECT
SUBMISS3IONS:    December 31, 1981
FREE LIMIT:       US$250,000 equivalent for individual sub-loans;
US$3.5 million equivalent aggregate limit
DEBT COVENANTS: Maximum debt/equity ratio of 3:1.
RISKS:            There are no major institutional risks associated with this
project as TDFL is a fairly well established financing
institution. However the industrial sector, the primary
beneficiary of TDFL financing, faces a number of serious
operating problems which could affect TDFL's ability to
expand as projected in this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECTED TDFL
PERFORMANCE:
Year ending December 31         1979    1980    1981   1982   1983
--------(TSh millions)--- …
PROJECTED APPROVALS:
Loans                                 60.0    67.0    68.0    68.5   66.5
Equity                                30.0    33.0    32.0    31.5   33.5
TOTAL                                 90.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0
PROJECTED INCOME
STATEMENTS:
Total Revenues                        21.5    28.7    36.7    45.0   52.8
Financial and Adminis-
trative Expenses                    15.1    19.2    22.9    27.7   31.2
Provisions                             1.2      1.7      1.9      2.0    2.0
Income Tax                             2.9      4.3      6.2      7.8    9.7
Net Income                             2.3      3.5      5.7      7.5    9.9
Net Income as
% of Net Worth                         3.7      3.4      4.9      4.9    5.4
PROJECTED
BALANCE SHEET:
Current Assets                        31.9    30.8    32.9    44.0   45.9
Net TDFL Loans                       103.3   140.1   179.4   213.6  242.9
Equity Investments                    61.2    87.1   117.3   150.0  181.3
Fixed Assets (Net)                    20.9    20.6    20.4    20.1   19.9
Staff Housing Loan                      .7       .9      1.0      1.0    1.1
Total Assets                       218.0   279.5   351.0   428.7  491.1
Current Liabilities                   12.7    19.7    18.8    23.9   35.0
Long-Term Debt                       142.9   156.4   216.9   251.8  274.1
Net Worth                             62.4   103.4   115.3   153.0  182.0
Total Liabilities
and Net Worth                      218.0   279.5   351.0   428.7  491.1
Debt/Equity Ratio                      2.3      1.5      1.9      1.6    1.5



- iii -
DISBURSEMENT ESTIMATES:
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
-------(US$ million) …------
Annual           4.6       3.4     2.0      1.0
Cumulative       4.6      8.0    10.0    11.0
APPRAISAL REP'ORT:   Report No. 2416-TA, dated June 8, 1979.






:[NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE TANGANYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY, LTD.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd. (TDFL) with the
guarantee cf the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent of US$11.0
million to help finance the foreign exchange component of such loans and
equity invesItments of this development finance company. The interest on the
loan would be 7.9% per annum and the amortization of the loan will conform
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to
the specific investment projects financed out of the loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1977 of US$200. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 45% of GDP and two-thirds of total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GDP, approximateLy the same percentage as 11 years ago. The
service sector has also remained at about 40% of GDP in current prices but
has risen to 46% in 1966 prices (with agriculture falling to 38% in constant
prices; thus a price shift has offset the real growth of the service sector).
Overall population density is low, though a few areas are considered over-
populated. Population growth is estimated at 2.7% per annum with both
fertility and mortality at relatively high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, and wholesale trade are under state
control. Controls are used extensively to direct economic activity, including
import licensing, foreign exchange control, price control, the reservation of
some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and detailed Government



investment planning. The second major feature of Tanzania's development
strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development and social programs to
benefit the poor. This is reflected in ambitious programs for the provision
of rural water supplies and health services and in its decision to achieve
universal entry into primary education.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1967-77 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.6%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
has recovered well, with annual growth of 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1978.
6.        The Government has an impressive record of domestic resource
mobilization. Between 1966-67 and 1976-77 the share of recurrent revenue
rose from 14.3% to 20.2% of GDP. This has been achieved through a combina-
tion of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75,
the rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings
fluctuated at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960's through 1973, fell
to half that level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis
level in 1976-77. These are extremely high levels of savings for a country
at Tanzania's income level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of a more equitable income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975 the
average urban-rural gap remained approximately constant, halting the trend of
an increasing gap in the early 1960s. It is likely that the gap has been
slightly reduced since 1976 due to continued recovery of agricultural produc-
tion and higher producer prices. Regional income differentials in rural areas
have tended to widen slightly. Within the urban sector there has been a
dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income differential between the highest-
paid government officials and minimum wage earners from 50 to 1 in 1961 to
8 to 1 in 1975. However, the overall formal urban sector earnings structure
has remained relatively stable while a large informal sector has emerged com-
prising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed workers with earnings
significantly below the official urban minimum wage. The policies of wage
restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975 should have a bene-
ficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribution and the basic
needs oriented programs in rural water and health and in universal primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in public
expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite satisfactory performance on growth, domestic resource mobil-
ization and income distribution, there are other areas in which performance
has been less satisfactory. The most worrying long-term trend is the slow
growth of agricultural production. In the period 1967-77 agriculture grew at
an annual rate of 2.7%, the same as the rate of growth of population. In the
past three years agricultural growth has been higher, but this was primarily
a reflection of the recovery to the long-term trend from the drought years



- 3 -
1973-74. In addition, the recovery has been limited to subsistence agricul-
ture; monetary agricultural production was only 2.2% higher in 1977 than in
1972.
9.       Slow agricultural growth has been largely responsible for a second
problem, the disappointingly slow growth of export volume -- the volume
of exports of goods alone was actually 35% lower in 1977 than in 1966. The
economic crisis of 1974 and 1975 forced the Government to impose strict import
controls with particularly adverse effects on industrial production. In-
creased levels of foreign assistance and service receipts as well as high
coffee prices mitigated the worst effects of the decline in export volume in
1976 and 1977, but with the end of the coffee boom, export performance has
again become a serious problem.
Recent Economtic Performance
10.       The! economy continued its recovery in 1977 and 1978.  Total GDP
increased by 5.9% in 1977. There was no significant change in export volume
but the boom in coffee prices helped raise commodity export receipts from
TSh. 3,828 million to TSh. 4,585 million. Preliminary data show a GDP growth
rate of 5.6% in 1978. International reserves rose to US$280 million at
the end of 1977 and import restrictions were relaxed. However, with the
fall of coffee prices in 1978 and increased import levels, reserves have
fallen rapidly; by January 1979 they had fallen to less than $100 million,
equivalent to about one month of imports at the 1978 level.
11.       The Government has continued to adhere to the principal elements
of the policyt package introduced at the time of appraisal and negotiation of
the Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974.  These include reallocation of
investment in favor of directly productive sectors, higher agricultural pro-
ducer prices, constraints on wages and salaries, and price and tax increases
to restrain private consumption. In the fiscal years of 1977 and 1978 the
Government also succeeded in bringing Government spending under control
and relaxed import controls. Because excessive Government spending and
borrowing from the banking system were threatening to undermine financial
stability and the entire program of recovery in early 1976, a program of
budgetary control was developed by the Government and supported by IMF assis-
tance and a Program Credit (No. 688-TA) in early 1977. Through the imposition
of new budgetary control measures and the reimposition of a progressive tax
on coffee exports, the Government was able to reduce Government debt to the
banking system and in 1977-78 hold bank borrowing to nearly zero. The Program
Credit was also designed to support selected relaxation of import controls in
order to provide needed imports of spare parts and raw materials for increased
capacity utilization. After some delays, the availability of essential main-
tenance imports has increased. However, the recent fall in export receipts
(particularly coffee) and the subsequent decline in reserves will led to large
cuts in even high priority imports of raw materials, spare parts and capital goods
unless additional external balance of payments assistance can be obtained. In
addition,while the growth in Government revenues was reduced by the decline on
coffee prices (upon which their is a sharply graduated export tax), Government
expenditures began to grow rapidly again in early 1978. The fall in customs
and excise revenue resulting from a short-fall in projected imports will also



- 4 -
force the Government to increase its borrowing from the banking system.
Finally, the conflict with Uganda has further strained both the budget and the
balance of payments. As a result of these trends Tanzania is again facing a
balance of payments crisis. To begin to address this the Government announced
a 10% devaluation in January, 1979 and reached an agreement with the IMF for
the use of the first credit tranche and drawings under the trust fund and
export compensatory facility. The problem of increasing Government expendi-
tures has been the prime focus of the budgetary review for FY 1980.
12.       In recent months the Government has experimented with measures to
increase labor productivity. These have included layoffs of some redundant
workers,trial incentive schemes at the firm level and consultancy studies
of the operational problems of individual firms. Of potentially greater
importance, in the Budget Speech in June 1978 the Finance Minister called for
the adoption of a payment-by-result wage system to stimulate productivity;
discussions on this matter are now in process between the Ministry of Finance
and the other involved ministries.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance
on concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid
has been given to Tanzania and the Government's historic reluctance to use
higher cost commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service
ratio has remained low. Including a notional 40% share of the debt of the
East African Community Corporations, it was less than 8% in 1977. Future debt
service developments will depend on how the balance of payments difficulties
(para 11) are resolved. Assuming the Government's increasing use of modest
amounts of commercial funds continues, the debt service ratio is projected to
increased to about 15% by 1985; this development is being closely monitored.
In 1977 the Bank held 14% of Tanzania's external debt (for the Bank Group, it
was 26%) and received 27% of Tanzania's debt service (29% for the Bank Group).
We were projecting these to remain at about 30% through the 1980s, but the
recent decisions of many donors to switch to grant terms and to forgive past
debts will lead to a somewhat higher level of Bank exposure unless the Govern-
ment turns to more significant commercial borrowing and supplier's credits.
However, with the Bank debt service ratio at only about 3%, this is not
expected to be a problem.
14.       Tanzania has a well conceived development program which will require
resources in excess of domestic savings and external capital made available
solely to finance the foreign exchange costs of projects. Given the Govern-
ment's efforts to mobilize domestic resources and in view of our support
for its increased emphasis on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank
Group will continue to finance a high proportion of total costs including, in
appropriate cases, a portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has now prepared reports to
the Partner States on the results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corpora-
tions and the General Services. The next phase of the mediator's work will be



- 5 -
to make recommendations on the allocation of these assets and liabilities.
The mediator's reports and recommendations on the future structure of the East
African Development Bank (EADB) have been accepted in principle by the Partner
States and he is now preparing to revise EADB's Charter to reflect the agreed
recommendations.
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on Tan-
zania's budget as new national corporations take over the services formerly
provided by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the EAC
difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 38 IDA credits and 17 Bank loans, of
which two are on Third Window terms, amounting to US$711.0 million have so
far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally by
Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. An IFC investment of US$1.75 million in
soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June 8,
1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations as of April 30, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       To support Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. While up to the end of FY 1972 Bank Group operations
were directed mainly on infrastructure, the overwhelming majority of the
operations approved since FY73 have been for directly productive projects.
Furthermore, a number of recent Bank Group supported infrastructure projects
have been closely linked with specific productive activities. For example,
the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in January 1976,
will support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and
1386-TA) and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA and Credit No.
833-TA). Directly productive projects recently approved include the Second
Cashewnut Development Project (Credit No. 801-TA), the Tobacco Handling
Project (Credit No. 802-TA), the Mwanza/ Shinyanga Rural Development Project
(Credit No. 803-TA) and the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Loan No. 1650-TA
and Credit No. 875-TA). In addition, a Tourism Rehabilitation Project
(Credit No. 860-TA), a Sixth Education Project (Credit No. 861-TA) and a Fifth



Highway Project (Credit No. 876-TA) were approved by the Board this fiscal
year. Projects which have been appraised include a Second Urban Water Supply
Project, lines of credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank and the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank (TRDB), a Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project, a
Foodgrain Storage and Milling Project, and a Harbours Project. A rural
development project in Mara, an education project a small scale industries
project, an urban project, a coconut project and an agricultural services
project are also under prepartion.
19.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. It is clear in
retrospect that both the Bank Group and Tanzania have been optimistic re-
garding Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained
and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers while others
result from the strains associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on
poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent and drastic admi-
nistrative changes, which -- though potentially the source of long-term
benefits -- have certainly disrupted orderly execution of projects and made
parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. In general, difficulties have
been most severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural
sector. As our lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector,
these problems have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By
contrast, the "modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the
Tanzania Investment Bank, Mwanza Textile, and Morogoro Industrial Estate
Projects, for example, are proceeding well.
20.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank Group procurement for relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
nine Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank
Group financed projects in agriculture and rural development. The need to
establish a close and continuous working level dialogue between responsible
Tanzanian officials and Bank Group staff on implementation problems was one
of the prime reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two profes-
sionals in October 1976. In February 1977 a regular Government/Bank Group
review of project implementation was established. Monthly discussions on the
Bank Group program chaired by the Ministry of Finance and attended by Bank
Group staff and officials from implementing agencies deal in detail with                    *
individual problem projects and problems which are affecting project imple-
mentation across a number of sectors. As a result of these efforts, there has
been a noticeable improvement in project implementation. Actions agreed to
during the reviews have been completed relatively fast and coordination and
communication between the Ministry of Finance and the various ministries and
agencies responsible for project implementation has improved markedly.
21.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project



implementatiLon review system, the Ministry of Finance has set up a unit to
oversee project performance. Furthermore, there have been more consistent
responses to Bank suggestions and a willingness to openly discuss project
problems raised by Bank Staff.  As a consequence, the disbursement records of
Bank Group Einanced projects have improved somewhat over the last two years,
and a recenit analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is
about equal to the Bank-wide average. While there is still a potential for
further significant improvements, the Government is implementing its invest-
ment program, including Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more
effectively than in the past.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General Background
22.      At Independence Tanzania had an extremely limited industrial sector
dominated by private firms. Three major features have characterized the
sector since that time: rapid expansion, a diversification in output and a
major shift in ownership from private to public hands. The share of manufac-
turing in GDP rose from just under 4% in 1961 to 10% in 1970, and has remained
around this level since. Secondly, Tanzania's industrial structure has under-
gone a change from a rudimentary structure producing a very limited range
of goods to a more diversified structure, producing a larger variety of
food and non-food consumer goods, intermediate goods and some capital goods.
Finally, following the Arusha Declaration of 1967, the Government systematic-
ally transferred the control and ownership of a number of large private and
foreign-owned industrial enterprises to Government-owned parastatals. By 1976
parastatals accounted for 53% of the value added and 48% of the employment in
the industrial sector. Notwithstanding the rapid growth of public enterprises,
the private sector has remained an important participant in industry.
Performance and Problems
23.       The industrial sector grew fairly rapidly in the sixties but later
experienced a decline in its rate of growth. Value added in manufacturing
grew at an average rate of 10.8% between 1965 and 1969, but the growth rate
fell to 7.4% between 1970 and 1973. After a virtual stagnation in
production in 1974 and 1975 because of the economic crisis in those years and
its attendant supply problems for industrial inputs and parts,
output has recovered, showirng a growth rate of about 6.4% in 1976 and 5.4% in
1977.
24.      The overall decline in the industrial growth rates from the high
levels in l-he late sixties reflects a number of factors. Most important,
the Governlent has not yet developed the administrative capability to monitor
and coordinate effectively the operations of the control system which was
instituted along with the increased public ownership of manufacturing enter-
prises. NAjor components of' this control system include centralized decision
making on investments, detailed allocations of foreign exchange through import
licensing, an extensive regime of price controls and rules of procedure



- 8 -
operated by the National Pricing Commission, and wage-setting by the Permanent
Labor Tribunal and the Government. While the Government feels these controls
are needed to achieve its development goals, their effect has largely been to
insulate public enterprises from the discipline of market forces; this is
particularly serious as performance indicators consistent with the macro
systems and clear guidelines for evaluating performance are still lacking.
In addition, there is a scarcity of trained managerial personnel and skilled
labor, and most enterprises have to live with periodic shortages of other
key inputs.
25.      The Bank Group has raised these issues in its discussions with the
Government on general economic work and in specific projects in the indus-
trial sector; the Government is aware of the problems, and is making efforts
to resolve them. It has acknowledged the problems of low labor productivity
and low capacity utilization, and is stressing the need to improve per-
formance. While decisions on major policy changes relating to incentives,
price and import control systems, and the oversight of parastatals will take
time because of the importance and breadth of the issues involved, the future
policy on incentives is under active discussion at present (para. 12). In
addition, a number of improvements have already been made at the firm level.
These include some cases of retrenchment in over-manned parastatals, better
discipline among workers mainly due to improved relations between managers
and the labor union,greater worker participation in certain aspects of
decision-making, introduction of incentive systems in a few firms and relaxa-
tion of limitations on recruitment of expatriate experts. In particular, the
National Development Corporation, the largest parastatal holding company,
hired a firm of consultants to advise on operational efficiency in some of its
subsidiaries. Some parastatals have also commissioned studies under the IDA
Technical Assistance Credit (No. 601-TA), with a view to identifying causes
for low capacity utilization and improving overall operational efficiency.
26.      The emphasis on productivity and capacity utilization has had the
effect of increasing confidence in the industrial sector and improving the
overall investment climate. Furthermore, the Government has clarified, at the
highest level, that the Arusha Declaration did not preclude private investment
in industry, and that such investment would be encouraged in all areas not
specifically reserved for full Government ownership. This has been followed
in practice by increased licenses for the importation of spare parts and raw
materials for private industries. The effect of these actions has been a
marked increase in private sector investment in industry over the past year.
While the recent developments in the balance of payments have already led to                 *
some fall in import licenses, the expansion in investment activity by the
private sector has been maintained.
Basic Industrial Strategy and the Third Five-Year Plan
27.        The Government's present strategy for the development of the
industrial sector is based on the Basic Industrial Strategy (BIS) which was
adopted in 1974. Tthe two main goals of this strategy are structural trans-
formation and self-reliance; it emphasizes the use of domestic resources
for domestic needs. Priority will be given to industries which cater for the
basic needs of the majority of Tanzanians, such as food, shelter and health,
and to the development of heavy industries, such as iron and steel. By using



- 9 -
local resources and producing for the local market, the BIS envisages a struc-
tural transformation of the economy through a system of backward and forward
linkages. Although the BIS stresses the domestic market, the Government
also recognizes the need to expand export-oriented agricultural processing
industries to increase the foreign exchange earning capacity of the country.
The major potential problem with the BIS is that attempts to restructure the
economy too quickly during a period of resource stringency may ultimately
frustrate both growth and structural change. A too-rapid expansion of the
metals sector (especially steel production) may lead to excessive reliance on
external finance, know-how and markets and the massive investment coordination
required by the strategy may overburden the country's already weak planning
capacity.
28.       The Third Five-Year Plan (1976 - 1981), currently under implementa-
tion, incorporates the first phase of the BIS. Under this Plan, the specific
objectives are to improve the efficiency and capacity utilization in existing
industries and to expand and establish industrial capacity for production to
meet basic needs. The targeted growth rate for the industrial sector is 9.3%
per annum compared to an overall GDP growth target under the Plan of 6%.
While reasonable growth in industrial production was achieved during the first
two years of the Plan (as noted above), it did not match the targeted growth
rate. In line with the important role which industry plays in the Plan, a
total of TShs. 5,147 million (24% of the total investment allocation in the
Plan), has been earmarked for public investment in the sector.
Small-Scale Industry
29.        Although it is difficult to accurately isolate the performance of
small-scale industries (SSIs) due to the lack of data, SSIs appear to be
concentrated in those areas associated with early industrialization, for
example, grain milling, bakeries, clothing and furniture. As the share
of SSI production in manufacturing appears to be declining, the Government has
decided to promote the development of SSIs. In 1972, it established the Small
Industries Development Organization (SIDO) to have primary responsibility for
planning, promoting and providing all kinds of assistance to small-scale
industries. SIDO's major activities are the setting up of industrial estates
and training-cum-production centers for imparting skill and craft training.
Its other activities include preparation of feasibility studies, provision of
hire-purchase finance, marketing, and other technical assistance. The Govern-
ment has requested the Bank Group to assist SIDO and a Bank mission recently
visited Tanzania to identify a suitable project.
The Financial Sector
30.       Tanzania's financial institutions are relatively well developed for
a country of its size. In addition to the Bank of Tanzania (the central bank
responsible for overall monetary policy), there are nine other financial in-
stitutions: a State-owned commercial bank, a State-owned insurance corpora-
tion, a national provident fund, four development banks (three dealing
with the modern sectors of manufacturing, transport, etc., and one with rural
development), a savings bank and a housing bank. Of these, the commercial,



- 10-
savings and housing banks are authorized to accept deposits directly from the
public. Tanzania has no active private capital market and the bulk of equity
investment is provided by the Government through the budgetary process.
Overall, the respective roles and functions of the financial institutions are
clearly defined and there is no costly duplication of effort.
31.       The three development banks dealing with the modern sectors are the
East African Development Bank (EADB), the Tanganyika Development Finance
Company, Limited (TDFL) and the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB). EADB, an East
African Community Corporation whose majority shares are held by the Govern-
ments of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, is directed by its charter to make 38.75%
of its investments in Tanzania. With the dissolution of the East African
Community, EADB's role has diminished considerably because of the uncertainty
surrounding its future. TDFL, discussed in detail below,is jointly owned by
TIB and bilateral agencies in the United Kingdom, Federal Republic of Germany
and the Netherlands; it provides funds mainly to medium-size private enter-
prises. TIB provides medium and long-term finance mainly to parastatals in
the industrial sector. Although there is some limited overlapping of func-
tions between TDFL and TIB, their respective roles are well defined, with TIB
concentrating on larger and public enterprises. Furthermore, as TIB owns 30%
of TDFL's share capital and appoints directors on its Board, reasonable
coordination of operations of the two organizations is assured. In FY 1978
the average TIB loan was TShs. 13 million compared to TShs. 2 million (TShs. 3
million including equity investments) for TDFL.
Bank Group Experience in Industry
32.       The Bank Group has been extensively involved with TIB since 1974,making
one IDA credit and two IBRD loans for a total of US$36 million. Progress on
these operations has been satisfactory and TIB has developed into a well
organized institution and an efficient allocator of medium and long-term funds
to the industrial sector. The Bank Group is expanding its assistance through
financial intermediaries and, in addition to this initial operation with TDFL,
is preparing a credit for TRDB of US$10 million and a fourth line of credit to
TIB.
33.       The Bank Group has also provided US$143 million to four industrial
projects. Two investments totalling US$60 million have been made in the tex-
tile sector through the National Textile Corporation, the first to expand an
existing operation, the second to set up a new integrated polyester textile
mill. The Bank Group also approved US$23 million for an industrial complex at
Morogoro in 1977, wherein a canvas mill and a shoe factory will be set up with
the primary objective of exporting their output. Early this year the Bank
Group approved a total of US$60 million for the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Proj-
ect. This project consists of the establishment of an integrated pulp and
paper mill with an initial capacity of 60,000 tons per annum of paper and
board as well as 1,400 tons of pulp for sale outside the mill. The Bank Group
has also provided an IDA credit of US$6 million for a Technical Assistance
Project to enable parastatal organizations to carry out feasibility and
capacity utilization studies and to provide training to their staff in order
to enhance the overall efficiency of the industrial sector. In the SSIs
sector, IDA has approved a US$1.4 million component as part of the Second



- 11 -
National Sites and Services P'roject which will provide assistance to small-
scale indusl:ries in Tabora and Tanga. The program would provide infrastructure
for industrial clusters, crecdit for equipment and management and technical
assistance to selected small enterprises. In view of the reemergence of the
private seclor, IFC has approved investments in soap manufacturing and metal
products (para. 17) and is studying other project possibilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project, which aims at improving and enhancing the role
of financiaL intermediaries in resource allocation in Tanzania, and at in-
creasing the foreign exchange resources available for medium sized investments
in the private sector, will be the Bank's first assistance to TDFL. The
project was appraised in November 1978. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.," Report No. 2416-TA, dated
June 8, 197'3 is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1979 and the Tanzanian delega-
tion was led by Mr. S. Madete, General Manager of TDFL. A Loan and Project
Summary is at the front of this report, and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet
is in Annex III.
Ownership and Role
35.       The Tanganyika Deveslopment Finance Company, Ltd. was established
in December 1962 as a private limited liability company under the Tanzanian
companies ordinance. With an authorized capital of TSh. 36 million, TDFL
began under the joint sponsorship of the Tanganyika Government, the United
Kingdom's Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), and the Federal Republic
of Germany (through Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, KfW). In 1965, the autho-
rized capital was increased to TSh. 60 million to permit the Netherlands
Government to subscribe to TSh. 10 million, making it a fourth owner. Sub-
sequently, the Tanganyika Government's shareholding was transferred to the
National Development Corporation, and then to TIB; the KfW shareholding was
transferred to Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit
(Entwicklungs-gesellschaft) mbh (DEG); and the Netherlands shareholding was
transferred to Nederlandse Financierings-Maatshcappij Voor Qntwikkelingslanden
N.V. (FMO). CDC presetly holds 10% of the issued shares of TDFL and TIB, DEG
and FMO each hold 30% of the issued shares. In 1978, the authorized capital
of TDFL was increased to TSh. 145 million.
36.       IDFL's main role in Tanzania's economic system is that of develop-
ment financier of medium scale privately owned manufacturing enterprises.
It is active in the promotion of such enterprises through its identification
of suitable investment opportunities and through taking the leadership in
bringing together interested investors, technical partners, and other finan-
ciers, both local and foreign. It provides equity financing to supplement
investments of project sponsors, or, where it is the lead promoter, to serve
as a necessary catalyst for attracting others. It is the main institution
in Tanzania providing loans and equity funds for projects in the private



- 12 -
sector. In addition to this basic role, it has provided cofinancing for some
larger projects whose financing requirements were too large for either TIB or
EADB to finance alone.
Board of Directors and Management
37.       Each shareholder is represented by two directors on TDFL's Board.
The present chairman, appointed by the Tanzanian Government, has been in post
since 1962. CDC and FMO each have one of their directors resident locally,
while the second directors visit Tanzania to attend Board meetings about
four times a year. DEG's two directors are both resident outside Tanzania.
Although the Board is responsible for the management of TDFL and may appoint
one of its members as a Chief Executive, a General Manager who is not a Board
member has been delegated the responsibility for the day-to-day operation of
TDFL.
38.       All the directors are experienced development bankers or business-
men who take a keen interest in TDFL's operations. The combination of local
and foreign expertise on the Board has proven to be invaluable to TDFL's
operations. The incumbent General Manager, who has been with TDFL since
1966, provides TDFL with experienced and competent leadership.
Organization and Staff
39.       TDFL's organization structure is well suited to its size and
operation. There are five departments under the General Manager: a Finance
and Planning Department responsible for accounting and financial management,
disbursement and procurement; a Manpower Development and Administration
Department handling recruitment, training and general administration; a
Secretarial and Legal Department for legal and company secretarial services;
an Investment Department responsible for the supervision of TDFL's portfolio;
and an Investment Promotion Department for project identification, preparation
and appraisal.
40.       TDFL is adequately staffed by an able group of Tanzanian profes-
sionals assisted by expatriates provided by or through the foreign share-
holders. As of March 1979, the total professional staff was 21, of which
2 were expatriates. In line with projected expansion of its operations, TDFL
plans to recruit 29 more professionals by 1983 and a suitable recruitment
program has been drawn up.
TDFL Policies and Procedures
41.       TDFL's operating policies, contained in a Policy Statement issued by
the Board, define the objectives of the company, the powers and limitations
of the General Manager and the principles governing its investments and
financial management. Although the present policies provide a good framework
for its operations, some amendments and additions have been made during the
preparation of this project to permit more flexibility in the size of the
projects assisted and to ensure TDFL is adequately protected from certain
financial risks. First, the Policy Statement was amended so that the maximum



- 13 -
single investment limit was increased from TSh. 6 million to TSh. 12 million.
This increase in the maximum limit will help eliminate the constraints ex-
perienced in financing due to increases in the cost of projects. Second, to
permit TDFL to increase its promotion role by providing more financial l'ssist-
ance to new entrepreneurs with little capital, TDFL's normal maximum co-tribu-
tion to a project's total cost would be raised from 49% to 60% (however, TDFL
would continue to follow the provision in its Policy Statement that it will
not normally invest in more than 49% of the equity of any enterprise).
Lastly, a clause specifying that TDFL will always protect itself agains-
exchange risks was added to the Policy Statement.  The Policy Statement. t
revise(d wiLl not be significantly amended without consultation with th3 iank
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.       To identify suitabLe investment opportunities, TDFL r&lies on
Government development plans and various sector studies, on CGS :ts with
private local businesses and external contacts    its fore!gr. shareholders.
The combination of planning and entreprenurial approach ;ais proven sticcessful
in yieLding projects which conform with Government requirements and ar£ at the
same time attractive to businessmen.  TDFL's appraisal of the managerial and
financial aspects of projects is thorough and its analysis of the demanld,
marketing and technical aspects is good. However, in the past, its evaluation
of projects has not included a calculation of their economic rate of return,
In the future all non-service projects in which TDFL's proposed financial
commitment will exceed US$250,000 equivalent will be subjected to econome;c
analysis (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).  In addition, it has beei
agreed that by December 31, 1979 TDFL will prepare an operations manuaL s,etting
out its operating procedures (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Resources, Operations and Portfolio
43.       Until March 1977, when TDFL borrowed foreign resources from the
European Investment Bank (EIB), all its resources were in local currency
provided by the four shareholders.  As of March 31, 1979 its local resou.rces
consisted mainly of the TSh. 100 million of issued capital and TSh. 80 nillion
of tnsecured noncumulative income notes provided in equal amounts by t'he
shareholders. The EIB investment consists of a convertible bond of Euiropean
Units of Account 2.5 million (about TSh. 28.10 million). This Bond ,s un-
secured and bears a non-cumulative maximum interest rate of 5-7/8%; it is
redeemable on October 3, 1988. Subsequent to the EIB investment, CDC provided
a sterling line of credit of TSh. 23.7 million equivalent at an 8% interest
rate, repayable in equal installments over the last 16 years of a 20 year
maturity period.
44.       Since its organization in December 1962 through December 1978, TDFL
had approved a total of TSh. 267.4 million in financial assistance to 87
projects. TDFL's approvals in 1975 and 1976 averaged TSh. 30 million per
year, compared to an average yearly level of TSh. 8.1 million between 1962-74.



- 14 -
Approvals reached TSh. 45.6 million in 1977 and TSh. r7.'L million in 1978.
This significant increase in operations reflects both an increase in the
number of projects assisted (21 in 1978 compared to 15 in 1976) as well as in
the average size of its financial assistance per project (TSh. 2.7 million in
1978 compared to TSh. 1.9 million in 1976).
45.       The proportion of equity investments in TDFL's total approvals
through December 1978 was 20.8%. While this proportion is rather high,
it is justified in TDFL's context because of itg active role as a lead pro-
moter of projects. However, to ensure that borro'wed funds are not normally
used for equity investments, TDFL's invesiments in equity will not exceed
its unimpaired paid up share capital, surplus, and free reserves (Section
4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       In keeping with its role, TDFL's operations have concentrated OnI
medium scale, privately owned manufacturing enterprises. Of the 66 projects
to which TDFL provided financial assistance as of December 1977, the average
cost was TSh. 16 million, which is medium scale in the Tanzanian context. Of
the 87 projects assisted as of December 1978, 86% were privately owned and
the remainder were parastatals or cooperatives. In terms of sectoral dis-
tribution, manufacturing activities have received the bulk of assistance,
accounting for 75.3% of the cumulative approvals as of December 1978 compared
to 13.7% in hotels and tourism projects, 9.6% in agriculture and fishing,
0.9% in property development, and 0.5% in mining and quarrying. TDFL's
investments in manufacturing are well diversified, financing general indus-
tries, textiles and garments, food and beverages and rubber and plastic
products.
47.       The quality of TDFL's portfolio is fairly good.  Only 5 of 65
active projects, accounting for 12% of the portfolio,face uncertain prospects
because of major problems. The problems faced by four of these projects stem
from fundamental mistakes in project design. Among the four, two are agro-
processing projects which are operating below their breakeven levels because
of shortage of raw materials; rehabilitation efforts for these projects are
in progress.  Of the remaining two, one is TDFL's only investmeni  irn lrining
and a study is in progress to determine whether it should conrinite operating.
The final project, a beach hotel, has consistently faced poor demand. Signi-
ficantly, as all five projects are non-manufacturing enterprises and four are
parastatal projects, TDFL has been particularly successful in its manrl area of
activity, financing of private manufacturing.  TDFL has take--, 4e account of
the status of its problem projects in making its provisions against the
portfolio, writing down its investments in them by TSh. 11.5 million (60% of
the total investment in them). It has also taken account o. increases in the
value of its profitable equity investments in determining ho, much of these
provisions to charge against income. TDFL has succeeded -in keeping the
arrears on the loan portfolio at a reasonably low level. The total aiiount of
interest and principal in arrears over three months, as of December 31, 1976,
was TSh. 8.8 million. The principal outstanding in the affected proiects Was
TSh. 22.0 million, amounting to 25% of the loan portfolio.



- 15 -
Financial Condition
48.        TDFL has been a reasonably profitable development bank.  Its gross
profit averaged 4.2% of its average total assets between 1975-78. However, re-
flecting the high level of provisions, its net profit averaged only 1.4% over
the same period. Because of this high level of provisions (54% of the profits
before provisions for 1975-78 were set aside) and because of underutilization
of debt financing (the long term debt/equity ratio averaged 1.5:1 for 1975-
1978), the return on TDFL's nest worth has been modest, with net profit averag-
ing only 3.2% of average net worth between 1975-78. In addition to interest
and dividends, an important source of income has been management fees from
TDFL's four subsidiaries. The dividend yield on the equity portfolio has
averaged 9.4% in 1977-78, compared to an average income on the loan portfolio
of 7.9% for the same period. While administrative expenses as a percentage of
average total assets have fluctuated between 2.6% and 4% over the past four
years, financial expenses have climbed steadily from 3.0% to 4.9%.
49.        Since 1975, TDFL has been paying regular dividends in spite of its
modest net profit. These payments have yielded an average return of 2.3% on
paid up common shares. To enable it to declare these dividends, TDFI, has
obtained a special waiver from the Tanzanian Government granting it permission
to declare dividends up to 50% of post taxation profits. During the project
period, TDFL will maintain a maximum 50% payout ratio after taxes and bad
debts until it has accumulated reserves in excess of 25% of paid up capital
to permit it to accumulate more internal resources for operations (Section
3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       TDFL's financial situation has been characterized by low current
ratios, low long term debt to equity ratios, and a relatively high ratio
of provisions to the portfolio. TDFL has been able to draw down on com-
mitted resources to finance operational needs at short notice, and has
adopted a policy of keeping liquid assets at a low level. Although its
articles of association stipulate a maximum long term debt to equity ratio of
3:1, it is yet to approach this limit because it has had to draw down on its
equity to finance the relatively large proportion of its operations in the
form of equity investments. Under the project, TDFL's debt equity limit will
be maintained at 3:1 (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Interest Rate
51.        TDFL can vary its interest rate depending on the standing of the
borrower, the type and duration of the loan, the security offered arid whether
or not any special guarantee3 are obtainable. Its current minimum lending
rate is 11.0% per annum for irmortgage debenture loans, and 12% per annum for
income notes and preference thares. Given inflation rates of 14.5% in 1975
and 1976, and 16.2% and 12% respectively in 1977 and 1978, and considering
that almost all its lending in those years was in domestic currency, this
lending rate has not been po34tive in real ternms. However, since the Bank



- 16 -
projects that inflation rates in Tanzania will decline to 10% in 1979 and
to 8% by 1980-81, TDFL's current lending rates are expected to yield
positive real interest rates. Over time, TDFL expects to maintain interest
rates which exceed the rate of inflation and are adequate to cover its
expenses and earn a reasonable return on its equity. TDFL will also establish
an annual review of its onlending rate with the Bank.
TDFL's Future Strategy
52.       In keeping with the increasing role that the Government expects the
private sector to play in the industrial development of Tanzania (para 26),
TDFL's operations over the coming three to five-year period will be guided by
a strategy designed to increase its impact on development. Specifically,
TDFL strategy over the medium term is proposed to be as follows:
(a) expand its promotion and financing activities in the
private sector to meet a greater proportion of the
needs of the sector;
(b) concentrate its promotion activities in those import
substituting industries where medium scale enterprises
could be efficient producers;
(c) actively promote projects which are consistent with the
Basic Industrial Strategy (clothing, food, construction
materials, chemicals, metalworking, and engineering);
(d) seek to diversify the source of its clientele and
contribute to the development of indigenous private
industrialists by assisting, on a selective basis,
smaller projects and projects sponsored by the more
effective District Development Corporations;
(e) diversify its sources of funds to finance the planned
increase in operations; and
(f)  build up the staff and organizational capacity to
perform these tasks.
This strategy is suitable for TDFL and is within its capability to implement.
Forecast of Operations and Resource Requirements
53.       TDFL expects to attain a level of approvals of TSh 90 million in
1979 and TSh 100 million by 1980. It plans to stabilize and consolidate
operations at this annual level through 1983. The proportion of approvals in
the form of equity is projected to increase from the average of 21% of total
approvals in recent years to an average of 33% over the next five years



- 17 -
because TDFI expects to play an increasing role in promoting the proiect, it
will finance. To attain this level of operations, TDFL has a long list ot
project proposals and ideas under study. With the BIS in mind, the majority
of these projects are in the manufacturing sector and involve the types of
basic products and processes which can be efficiently undertaken on a medium
scale basis. These include pirojects that use iron and steel (bolts and nuts
manufacturing, steel rolling, and wiregauze manufacturing), chemical projects
(production of industrial alcohol and carbon dioxide), and construction
material projects (stone quarrying, sawmilling and manufacture of PVC tiles).
54.       TDFL's projected resource requirements in foreign currency from
January 1979 through December 1981 are TSh. 196 million (US$23.6 million).
To meet these requirements, I'DFL is attempting to secure a second line of
credit with EIB of 5 million European Units of Account, leaving a gap of
TSh. 146 million (US$17.5 million). It is proposed that the Bank would
provide US$11.0 million toward the gap; TDFL is making efforts to raise the
remaining amount from other aid agencies and commercial institutions. TDFL's
local resource requirement will be met from available funds and internal cash
generation.
Financial Prospects
55.       Although no significant increases are expected in the rate of
return on the total portfolico, with continued tight control on expenses,
income from rental of portions of TDFL's new office building, and with
a lower leve!l of provisions than in the past, TDFL's profitability is
expected to increase slightly. Net profit as a percentage of average total
assets is expected to increase gradually from 1.1% in 1978 to 2.1% by 1983.
The return on equity is expected to increase because of increased profit-
ability and greater use of debt financing from 3.6% in 1978 to 5.9% by 1983.
However, because of the proposed restriction in the payment of dividends,
the dividendl yield for shareholders is not expected to exceed 3.5%. TDFL's
financial situation is expected to remain good. The projected debt/equity
ratios show that the limit of 3:1 will not be reached in spite of increas-
ing use of clebt finance becauLse TDFL will continue to raise large amounts
of new equit:y to finance its expected investments in equity. The liquidity
situation is expected to be in line with past experience and enough cash is
expected to be generated inte!rnally to service the increased debt.
Terms and Conditions of the Loan
56.       The proposed Bank loan to TDFL will carry the following terms and
conditions:
(a) Eligibility: The loan will be available for financing
subloans and equity investments in subprojects in the
industrial, transport, agro-processing and tourism
sectors (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
(b) Free Limits: The individual free limit on subloans
will be US$250,000 with an aggregate free limit of US$3.5
million (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Equity investments to be made out of the proceeds of
the loan will require prior Bank approval irrespective
of the amount involved (Section 2.02(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). These conditions will permit the Bank
to review at least 70% of the subprojects to be financed.
(c) On-Lending Rate: The on-lending rate will be a minimum
of 11% per annum.
(d) Foreign Exchange Risk: The foreign exchange risk on
subloans will be fully passed on to the sub-borrowers
(Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). For
any portion of the loan that TDFL intends to use for
equity investments, it will be required to submit (at
the time the proposed project is presented for Bank
approval) a satisfactory plan for covering its exposure
to the related foreign exchange risk (Section 2.03(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
(e) Amortization: The amortization will be the aggregate of
the amortization schedules for subloans and investments
(Section 2.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       TDFL will be required to submit quarterly reports which will include
a summary of operations, financial statements, resource position, statement
of loan arrears, and notes on subprojects which are encountering serious oper-
ational difficulties. It will also be required to submit audited annual
accounts prepared by qualified accountants in accordance with the Bank's
requirements for DFCs within four months of the end of each financial year
(Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
58.       Procurement for the subprojects financed under the loan will be
in accordance with the standard Bank practice for development banks.
59.       The proceeds of the proposed loan will be disbursed for authorized
TDFL subloans and investments as follows: 100% of the foreign cost of directly
imported goods; 65% of the local cost of previously imported goods; and 40%
of the total cost of civil works. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1983, two years after the completion of commitment.
Benefits and Risks
60.       Privately owned small and medium scale projects are expected to play
an important role in Tanzania's industrial sector despite the rapid growth of
parastatals. By increasing the resources available for investment in such
projects, and by improving the allocation of these resources through the
strengthening of TDFL, the project will contribute to the growth of industrial
output to meet basic needs in Tanzania, and generate significant employment
benefits. The proposed loan of US$11.0 million equivalent will, on the basis



- 19 -
of the historical average proportion of total project costs that TDFL has
financed, lead to a total investment of about US$55 million equivalent. Allow-
ing for inflation, and assumirLg that about 20% of projects to be financed
under the loan would be for modernization/rehabilitation, the loan would lead
to the creation of 6,500 to 7,000 jobs.
61.       The subprojects to be financed under this project will be exposed
to the risks that all industrial enterprises face in the Tanzania environment,
in particular the controls system referred to above and its accompanying
problems have to be faced by all industrial enterprises (para. 24). An addi-
tional concern is the availability of foreign exchange resources to provide
raw materials and spare parts. The recent aggravation of Tanzania's balance
of payments difficulties (para. 11) will mean less foreign exchange for the
required imports and will adversely affect industrial performance. Finally,
the growth of- TDFL may place strains on its organization, staffing and proce-
dures and prevent it from being fully effective during project implementation.
In view of TDFL's past performance in working with its clients in dealing with
the general industrial sector problems and as adequate plans have been made to
adapt the institution to the expected higher level of investments, it is felt
that these risks are manageable and that this project should proceed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Tanganyika
Development 'Finance Company, ]Ltd., the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the United ReBpublic of Tanzania and the Bank, and the Report of the Com-
mittee providled for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft
Agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans to development finance
companies.
63.       Special features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements are
reflected in Part III of Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that thes Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washiigtc-.  D.C.
June 8, 1979



ANNEX I
-  20-             .                               , 
TANZANIA - SOCIAL LNDICATORS DATA SHtrT
LAND AREA (TMOUSAND Sq. KM.)                  TAHAIA -ItlOCT CROOPS (LDJtSTED A'r ES
-MOST ECvrT ZSTtKATEI 
TOTAL            945.1                                                     SAME         SAtlZ     UIT RICHER
ACRICULTUIAL      50B. 3                                 DST UCI T       CEOCIA7HlC   INCOMZ         INCOGM
1960  &     1970 &  ESTIMAtE a        UZCION L    CGROUP I      GROUPLt
CH? PFR CAPITA (US$1                    70.0 L     110.0 Jf  200.0 Li         223.6       182.9        432.3
ENERcY COATUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS UV OP4L EIUIVALpNT)      41.0         62.0      69.0             86.7        58.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION. KID-YEAS
(MILLIONS)                          9.6 It      12.9 /f   15.5 L
UUAN POPULATION (PERCENT Or TOTAL)  4.6            5.5        7.3            13.6        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DRNSITY
PER SQ. Em.                        10.0         14.0       16.0             15.4       46.5         42.7
PER SQ. 2n. ACItCULTURAL LAND      20.0         26.0      30.0             53.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 TRS.                          42.5 LfL    44.4 lb   46.7              44.4        43.6         44.9
15-64 YS.                           55.5 jL      53.0 Li   50.9             52.7        53.3         52.8
65  RS. AND ABOVE                    2.0 LLi    2.6 /h    2.4                2.8         2.9          3.0
POPULATION CROWTR RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3          3.0 Li    2.7 /f           2.6         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                .0          5.6        7.5 e           5.5         4.0          5.5
CRUDE BIRTH PATE (PER THOUSAXD)       51.5        50.5      47.0              46.9       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER THOUSAND)       27.1        23.0       20.1             20.6       19.7         L2.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.2        3.3              3.1        2.9          3.2
IAMtILY PLNI4INC            -
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USZRS (PERCEN4T OP MAIRLED W)         ..          ..         ..             2.5        14.6         14.2
tOOD AND UTrRITION
INWDE OF PooD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              91.6        100.0      107.3            94.2        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CALORIE; (PERCl;T Ot
LEoUIRWDO4Ts)                    69.0         86.0      66.0             90.1        92.3         99.5
nOTFlis (cGLAS PER DAY)            42.0         43.0      47.1             55.2        50.0         56.8
Of M1IC  ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.0 LI      23.0      20.0             17.1        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY HATE         .5 ..                   .               ..         ..          1.5
HEALTR
LIFE 17pECtANCY AT RIRTH (YEARS)    3S.7          41.8       44.5             43.7       45.8         53.3
IYFANT HORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            190.0       160.0 /h      ..            138.4      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATtR (PERCENT OF
POPULATIC:4)
TDIAL                                M. 13.0              39.0             22.4        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 .         61.0      88.0             66.3        63.5         68.5
RSLRAL                               ..           .0       36.0             10.4       14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EZCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       17.0             23.9       16.1         37.5
UUAN                                  ..          ..      58.0             70.3        65.9         69.5
RIURAL                                ..          .        14.0             14.2        3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          21750.0/Lf.  21570.0 /M20760.0 IL       21757.5    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NUaSING PERSON      9240.0Do    4590.0 /1 31SO.0 If          3473.5     6553         2762.5
POPUAlTION PER NOSPITAL SED               e
TDTAL                             570.0/t.k   700.0 f        ..           645.4      1157.6        786.5
UtAN                                 ..           ..         ..            172.9      153.3        278.4
RURAL                                 *-          *-         ..           1292.6     1345.5       1358.4
AD?ISSIMlS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         .              19.2        19.5        19.2
ROUSINC
AVERACE SIZE Ot EOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 .          4.4 Ib      ..              4.9        5.2
URAAN                                               2 l      .                          4
RURAL                                            4 5 E-0*
AVERACE N1UNER OF PERS-OS PER Room
TUR hTAN                             1. i         ..         I. ;.                       1           2.3
RUSAI.                               ..           ..         ..
ACfESS IO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DVELLIN:S )
ToTAL                                ..           ..         .                ..       25.9         25.3
URhAN                                                                                    O; .o
aISAL                                 ...                    .                 .         5.         10.3



ANNEX
-  21  -
TANZANtA - SOCIAL ISNDICATORS DATA SIIECT
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
tUtZAIIIA                       - MOST RICE)NT tSTIMATE) -/
SANI        SAME      NEXT HICHEI
D$? RUCENT    CGEOGRAPHIC   INCOKE           INCOME
1960  k      1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION _!c   CROUP  d    GROUP /I
WDUCATION
ADJUSTED EIROLLU(NE  RATIOS
PRIKARY:     TOTAL                  24.0         35.0       57.0             52.1        62.9         75.8
Dt4ALE                16.0         28.0       46.0             37.6        45.9         67.9
SECCNDAttl:   TOTAL                  2.0          3.0        3.0              8.0        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 1.0          2.0        2.0              5.0         8.8         12.9
VOCATIORAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 23.0             ..         ..              7.2         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEAO3ER RATIO
PRDAaY                              45.0         47.0      53.0              43.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDAtt11                         20.0         19.0      20.0              22.8        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATC (PERtCENT)         9. I        28.1 Ih   49.0 J/           20.3        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIIN                           3.t)         2.5        2.4              3.9         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECE IVERS PER THOLSAND
POPULATION                           2.0         11.0       16.0             40.1        31.1         71.1
TV PCCEIVUIS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             .          0.3                         2.2         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    3.10         5.0        3.0              3.9         6.0         16.3
CINCYA ANNJAL ATrENDANCE PER.CAPlTA  0.5              .         ..              1.2         1.4          1.6
IPLOYKEnT
TOTAL LAROIR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4900.3 lo   5600.0/t h6300.0 /L
EDtALE (PERCENT)                    37.1         36.6      36.3              3Z.6        24.2         2s.0
AtILCULT2RE (PERCENT)              96.0 lo      91.O/f.h  83.1              73.3        60.7         34.1
INSISTRY (PERCENT)                   3.8          5.0        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7         43.5       42.2             42.0        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  56.9         55.7       54.3             54.8        53.3         50.3
PEKALE                                32.8         31.5       30.3             27.3        19.6         20.9
ECONOKIC DEPENDPNCT RlATIO               1.1 /o       1.21f.h   1.2               1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE IhCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGREST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         33.5         ..             25.7        20.3         19.5
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OP ROUSETOLDS                 63.3                        5.1         45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF NOUSEHOLDS                   2.3                         5.8         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS       ..          7.8                        14.5        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      117.0            108.8        88.5        155.9
RUlAL                                  .           ..       89.0             74.1        71.9         97.9
ESTDLATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCQ1E
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UUR                                   ..           ..      146.0            124.4       100.8        143.7
r  RURAL                              ..           ..      45.0              59.6        42.0         87.3
ESTDtATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME IEtVEL (PERCENT)
UR8AN                                 ..            .       25.0             26.8       46.0          22.9
R-URAL                                ..           ..       85.0             41.6        48.0         36.7
Not  va-Ilable
NoL applicable.
NOTES
Li   The Adjusted group sverage, or each indicator are population-weighted geomtric mans  escludlng the extrem
valued of the indLcator and the uost populated country in each group.  Coverge of countrie  awong the
indicators depends on availability of date end is not unifor-.
Lk    Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 197L; end for Most Recent Esti ;ate. between 1973 and 1977.
Li    Africa, South of Sahara;   Id  Low  nco_e ($280 or los per capits. 1976);   le  Lower Middle loco"
(5281-550 per capita, 1976);  If lilinland Teneanis;   LI  19571   /h  1967;   LI  1967-73;   LI  1961-63;
A   1162;   LI  Regiesered, not si.. practice in ths country;  L/  1958, Zeastbar only;   /n  1972;   /0  196.
Septe b-r 1978



-22 -                                                               ANNE I
____N___________L______AT_P_                                                         Page   3
tOot oc    Ali.ott l.a4.. drooc te. ....no   acatotlrJcdo4 th. eocaot   bot,  ..d v.  oI.I   h-.Id ... to cotd Ik,l rho.  -a  ce. ho L.-
McIStOty stpotto I               I Lb. Itc  .1.cod.rdlaod dfotLotom  .04 .-oPta c.od cv diff.-.,   --intlo  I, -rIISCltos rho dl.-   TMo det.os . me..o.
d.0.I, to iocrb. -rier. Sf sorcoird.. tiagle.  trends. .ed oheractrlso OwtcI. Oaf.  dIff.r.n                 b.a  or.. e-cg,tao.
th. t.t ...        .Md. for ..th tldlcceo  ar .-OuaItla.tedObited   .mrcsare". onfodlo   Oh. 0..roe. ,a.oe   F rho lodfcater Sod lh. Sea
pop,o(c'o  -rc  In .t%  et..,.P.etot.O.or  -.1I.ttlandea C   oicro. d.ta-40opd. -  ...Mblfhlt,  CfS.  ..4t 1, tog caI.u h   to loch of dot..
ct -po -erccf-t CaPiCal S.rpluc ott foPortrsr  cd lodl.eatot  of oct... to -goto co  *ocr.te dlopoocL. hoestea. Inten  di.trMwbol 5. Od paOtecy or.
otyepo.tieo-.ol, .o  R.mc            et .0cc cirhooc the *aoIaslo  of actorm  rotogo.
(.0)0 tAN   IItoor    . ho)                                                             pomIolsaon Dtr hvFaf hod - tgtal, orb.. wed rotal - Pooc.lctcau (t.ta..
T.%&l - Ttao.. crloc  or.. cooprislg Loand or. cmd LOSto  mWoter.                        oab". lad rr.I)t dicdod by their rocyocttlo  oobor St hospital bod,
AAfL  hItWt;."Ofat f*COGt 00CLOWtO Of 40CttaOUtL1 8r.. "we  tOR.t.tlyP                   e,stlahle to pblito od prt.ed. general cod opoclttod hospital .odt-
St pV.-e., tly let crops. ps.ot.we. earkwt ood hltaham  gtdoe* or to                   hobiliIaitca cooct..  900POtoIo coo                       PSalcp.L    prooococly  Lcff*d by
IL. lolish.                                                                            St l"ot wte phyolctoa.  Etccbtlislasts pftc.dlcg prloulpolly C.otodlat
oc.   r...toloo.  trac  h-opitala. hocooct. laded    "C.lh co  mdi-
CIto  Its Wc: 'A....  .Gs? Paro*     It co0.9ctbooce.   cart w m  owth.t proc...          :;Ca. cocc. cot p.roosotIy Staffed by a phyoOcl.o (b.9 by S oad4t..  w-
bocicl  pseC        ratooesoen Smo oda  Vatld look £010  (19-71-  tb.oto)        olSomL. sor"O. &Idotli. .Cc.) which  Wlo.t o-pstlbco  oe.sodactio  .od
1940. 1979. a.d1977 jot.                                                               proote. a Iottod rOage 01 0.41.0  IactUtlOo.
0T C0SL'~7Ti7. ?fl  471£ - cml o.ea~tbo  at Omitlol                                 badU- Total wbeg S aft odscoee  to of dlotbots.
(teat Oat icottIo. poctolw  . oc otal0 t ad bydt-  mot'CLool cod               MU       W    L     I4pa-yth    AM   o    e
thorool .ocU       )L, htllcrm   et 000.1 .9unions Pe" taopus.                     1I
Awotoa  Size ati mah-=    d I orcs    ehoebd)-ta. otbE.. ad  ntl -
P0tAIO    .:mi   T?1  CjA boocobald finis    at S ctcro  ofOdiloldoc   `0.. "hAte hLittg qdrotm
Toto  ecojtlc. ot-noo 1idIl..) - Asoft May IL If  ot  oalloble.                   co  (solo soto wslo,.  A beard.t or Ied". ota Ot my eel be lowloded la
Soto. C. twe c,-yscv co-bocsW; 1960. 1979. md1977 dot..                             cobocoehold fat ococloclcl p-rp.ceo.  Scclcc. dhotim .  "L      o90   at boe.-
(rhino ocre.o:to I oc~o.c of  ctal) -toll.So  cab.  La total pepolo-         hold 'cry.
tI  :Idlf! ..aoc dcIatl Wd atob.am ?ofZc o-bbLty                                   0000.t  fwt,. wttes tto cb:a.  wAd rotal-  otew-
ofS-dole .ta t...   rto..                                                              bdtat pess.  pearee  to..Isl.  taboo. ancds rct.1  cpcd cotramuseesd
r:i           - Ol-744r Pp.V.L&clco Pox S""*t  burnt.  (190 bechoroc)                   mccci.td parts.
Pcr c. to. GSrlCcltot4 load - Caopr.cd as 61oha   for sgrIcsLtcaL lan                                                               is.ot.ld..loc000  lttcc   tAi"o   quatters as p-occOtoc
osly.                                                            .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o total. obm., cad tutal dwellings tespottol"y.
Poraiaoo  ce  Lottot  far  C.t       l1dr     (0-16 7oct01. meLthtag-.
pecr),  od  oclod  h1   CSr sad coot) we ptoacCOMac Of old-
Pooicio.  ros   rco )etto2-z ctl.       ;h     - C'e"es  amel                 PTM;oti                     wtul  - Toctal cod Insle aorolbmoo of oll cgoo
otoeth rte.oocacd .. 9             l-ocpc.loootoof 1950-64.                            at t    ptteeo7  coo  Ad pettoae.oa  of toopetot-ly prim"y  Ochel-ac.
1040-70. acd itIt-?).                                                                  pep"lc.1.o; eereally Ltolodoc thilItto . co   h-Il,ot  hot adjoacod for
Credo  ic(  Aao(orooccd  -hcal Ito. hirtbh  pert chorocd of                              dUftereot l.agtko at pricoty odwectlost tor CountriesWit  an1 . lOotc1  d.4-
old-rr ;prlati-I tos-roc-  -tliarcoaL  -metgw   ot  L. a        o      NW 19i- arIs    rllmo..  oay  caseod 100 percoot clot. oun  Peull.  .r. lola.C
l9~0 cd (Ioo   ...c es.oc  o"edle  L. 197) fet mca tv-mt ..tSe..                  oh... Iho atfICil1 .O..  oo..
Irroo dcO~o c:a   tt  housoand) - dooroc  teeth. per oh.ooad et aud-             loodr   col-ttl   a   oo - Caompetd a. abc..; oeaeclry *doc.-
yoct popaAc itoat c-oot "   ST12DLICOl  cootog. 00410  La 194  cand 0970               000. requresr at Icoct taro  Yorar  of offooo   prLasey t.-trucclea;t-
end IL-oter Atotoco andtae  I. 1s7SC"  we Paotento   ooOlOoo.                          old. P-astl "tClcal.ol  or Ooacat CttcLato   1Sot.clions  tar p"Oila
Lo. roe OSle   rate - Avoteesake  Of dacabtot .ems-  U11  Soar                   earl  at 12 oc I?  at of coo  ctta.           aeaC c...ocr   aefh
in hot ocr%-o .l,Prodool.e petre"  If ohe .Peapoinos     p7.0.0  ooc                   wetlrded.
.OpCiftIt faretlit y  votes; SawLly fl,e-yout a.eaps oa  d1o   1n 1940.              Y.caalro'co    croo  c   oaaor - tototosl ta&ilOtOesc to-
1970. caA :91).ciod Tabti.lod oLci. cr t c=o  pregram  kchIc  operteo leodapedgly
fall.  l.r~to - ecococt. omoa  (Ohaal"do  - A.."I O.".. of                     at  Pedptuscc   sc deodry  oatittioum..
Inopor  ofhti-mcld0cet.a   cO..a   olelfaiy                                   Pl-ota   ol     tcr.cdacaOv                         OtAl otodemctc coteld 10
plaoctq  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~rcitm. ~~~~~~~~pflacy cad sacoaldary Io...la ftloded by om Seoef toochbr  to tho  -ceo-
Fcoll, oaoutoc -ocoto fed.m ofSar  o .sa           Potomoop of                     opoodLue l.ocIo.
lettd  -tcoof cIhlt-beortll ads (IS-i  Meo  uh. coo bIrtb-coastcl                 M.1g jLoexeatoooA,c:oII - LIoccat. od.Itc (able to toad Swi altt) so
doolt.. ta .11 scrocd m        LoOm  age gtroup.                                       a p~ertajn itieoL edol  papo"lcilo  ciod I) Poor. cod auut.
M . naI itE UP.dveteorrcl*(P0-100) - todue                     er- at pet             Y-ii ortc... faot Iheccod SOeoetAl   P- feo o,dorear. ttoa  e..0Cr.c.r
coalc  czrcl prototoo. atcli f.d  Mid......                                mo        *5cc  oh.. asch  proc    aL"- s lando.. bsordec  -4 Sit.cty
foroclt  ocot o  oaoroo  ortot  i  aohrpoeo)    Cspta  ftc.                 .ebtcla.
mfthty or.t.oolm If wet fee  oropla a.ldlo             10 coeor,ypet t.Pito        I,"ic tooC ot  fctih 9ooO  orLACIec) - A11 typ   .1 ol roIcOrs tot radio
.:t hey.  A.volIcbI  Suppylie o.  srlc   dwasocl  propdgates, toparo .I"c            Itateat   ooa  p:bItC por.t choeoaOdf pPrclOtlooeateo    alta
cPatso. cnd ch       isco1  0.0.-.  0cc  OI aopl. oi.waded. atal foe,  oe.          recetooro t. .-ttait.  aw! L. hcc o .0  stm-ttiou of -adIo 000  S0  to
IcOotltl, coed 10 food pISOceelaS.  ad IS:o.. to dlatr1botle.  to-`                  Olict; dci. tot t-S.C yot  a   a  he cosarcblo 010. anot  -CratL-
frutt"mooore octioctod by ?AO boced we phosoleleolol macd  lot sat-                  abeltshod Litwnsing.
toI etlirty cam  boaIt.. cadotloie  o.ol teaaol tesprstatc. body                    Ttt$Oc(or thcooood aso,lcttoa) - TV t-toocr  fot b .. dctco  to actoft
welabo., Sea cad co  d,oth.b-Isao of poaclecies.. 0.1 a-lsrl   10 pa.-              TV     "A"'L.4po "thoooodyoIai; aatIid.  colt.easod TV                     L.ooaa10tm
co     Sa      sake: ac "oohod Icol                                             tytoo  and 10 yoest robs    oorcctm- .1 TV  wacto   . Lo effetac.
otCaoItcotot f....t.tl   (am   ctdo) - rPtoc.l da coeoe  of per                     SU7oer c!rCboltlo_ (oct thCoco  se   siotea)- S               tb: :10.  a ISat  ctrclc-
oCoPtt  oa      IVyl  of cod P-r toy .: X   .."Iy .f toed La deilcad 0.                01. of  dcily geocr.1 lot.toc   o...    er   Ottood, Ad           I caLSeel p.blt-
oh....     . tactta tac  for oIl Cutaricsc o.ccbllobod by U90£ prr,ldo lot            cetIm. do.ted poloottly tc trcecdlag scomeI SeWs.  It to  easaldorad to
*  1915.   lcoc   t4  !t... ci ocltooe r da  cad 20  rn                              be  d"Lly' if it  Ppyocto -Cc I.ct foer C00   Seach
at  d..t   ca  p1c   .toc.  of.   hla  101 aretm  ohoold ho saete.  Srtoate.        Cl=co.clcceot   a   ctcwt0c-004a "lbtho sae  atd wblhto
07.... .9-4tatd.    Pla lcroth-s thoot of 73 gran of tcotl piCoaha cad                 oal  dartv8  the 7.00. tatlwdlg adoaisltm  to  ro-oc.e.ecdab
22  wto.  of 'al.pOctel  cc  s0 ataco  lom the WorId. propoeOd by                      .0t0..
FAO L, Eito ThIrd ',ctd14 Foodw3..0.
dottod ft. 00101.  f.4 p.aeo  c  tid  patl  da- Protin  upploffoo                         f... tofhycooads) - Rctsoslcolly "eto. p..0c  LeclOdlac atod
.od to ccc &ccip I-. Vwet. to .1SItt..o. to his .*  Sts".                              010. . to  ccov  c-ctrid. .r. ao spoob
FwmnL, (mrceat   r- m     tobOfor.tn. w  pertcoocs et  ctacl Issuetfo.cc.
gEAIT                                         ~h ~0.                                                     g -  Loss,trt   i f    c.. mtaa. fotoocty. hrbeetles.d C lotIg
Life .00019c.,n cc bOoth (Yeats) - *oece  ako o fbe      year a" r   1 lifepsorotot :                     t I   tal'100obe, fottc
toanoi.1gt b1 htc: ..colir ILr-Pcot acarcas.  audi.  1, 1940. 1970.                 Issc.f.oo)-Labo  fort  t.  _0)0   mroro.osf_t_l.tI     ead
Lo,93                                                                                 lorooy   oo   cds.0  pettomogo of toOcI Lebectofrco.
IS=rr  .rcht  ...a lotooood      ocl4d.o   aoc    e                                    oOccoo   a.fece)-Od .. Sco  loj Tg- t.0. mcI.. cad
co   oo   f   . PatOhcco  I, fibc.                                               colo Leber f.rco .. porc*tactoo    of tihol   toap-etloc paPoloctoo.
Acca o  rtcoce  lmCfoto of oooocOtoa) -:    Woa.ah                rtcacl -       Timow  at. MLol  cdjwto.t p.rtctttactt  ral.. rofkoctloe  oo-
fae       ;-yl L. ttc.t   :tho. oOd t .taL) otbh tc.coaohl. otto.. to             StruttC"a of the Vp.ottota.. cod Log ts1.  It-d.
oaf. cte  opL,inLooCO  tac            S.c ea o etort -Cretroed bet                  tseedo.oe  rcctc - Loti  Sto popalattwe  cotc 0) cd 05 aod Coot to
ocoeooo7rcid ocot .001cc rot Ic P   accted bofohobo.  Ott9.                  th lher t.or Sts. loSe gtp of 13-6t y-cca
and0001cr yata'coptccorcac  f  holt roopecCto, ptoptcattcoen.
tic, 2D0 oct-to Ito     rr    Wcr ho  .0eo.loa  'S bolOl OtIhi. too-               Tercenta"   O co.-W  Ioooc.  (buck La tees .od hOoed) r-tcacd byrIabool I5
,,cOl "I    cco  r'r130 .             to t loc .. cr0  toasamblo  "coos. Would         p-rcoot. tielS.ot 20 percenc. poecest 20 paccact. cad P-.t.o h0 pettoot
L,.L, riotito7t..clf                  Stobe   ot ba bo-ohold de - ca -.bto,1           ctro.rod
.r..O    Otctcct,oo P."pv  et oh. 4.0e  0. t ..cahio   Oh. fcatlyl
A-..t rror...oa.                           -at.)-tta.ras     Wpot     .'t                                                                                         .o
rota.'..zar ofya..(a (ttal.crtc..td card1) carvd by OaCtat&                    Aioclot. pVot.ty Laa   ao   I  00  Ooo.-It b010. Which S alosat
":oPClaofcorjc0tcItrfe  I.ypcc                             .   t-ctot                  OSE'tOleeclOy adoioto i.51.  pica ooCI.00o  oco-tt cOq.L,tcoto LatO
cc  I.                                          ".c f.pWitthtofoocotb0.01st  ,aial.cOoao
-. _I..,,_p~yot~c,-   3~.,0.ci.0tiotlod tyoraker of  inaclOobO    .lcttv. P---o  icoa   .ro   .ttlio    (coo   S0.  thco sw-third
Of  ,0  00111l.A  (re c cdicclactoe  cc oto.roiy  i..0.     po  .p      pa pr.tyo  Oces  o -    tcc, t- -..
_oT i -.1 (-Id f -d -1    "I   t "I"r    meILjo4  S.2Zi1A12)5eIptoltto.eot.el                                          cmrtoot  - otbsa cad totjj 
PO .Lr: ic   ciote y~p...'.. -Popltion W.dll,4dotby sombot                       P-tcoat .0 peprotlorl   4tbcc cod rotl) W0 010 ctthot "abadlets Pe-t- Ot
por t; -c:o  rdt-          rdst  sror.r.a.t  srceaI  outwc.Saw                       oat   peer- ehtch.-o  L. ocroc-
tomwini   mad Soctal Dees Di.tobos
lt.aooolt dolyla cand Prejcctim 00palOO-wl



tootoalt OeoelopEaeo Dt ga Shee3t
Artool           roojatotol                   7r&oc944~~P-J-e                 o.A--    oAA,Iorwt-oa-...%
1972        1973        1974        1975       1976       1977        1978        1979       1980        1985        1990        1972-7d 7    1977- S5    19i5-9c
I   NATIONAL ACGODNTS
(MIlliot  US $ at 1977 PUlte-)
1.  CDP                                               2773 9       2662.2     3004.7      9119.4     3364.1      3542.4     3651.1      3755.9     3921.6      4891.8      6139.9           5 0         4 1          4 7        .o
2.  Gatna fr-e TenDs at TWade (TT)                    -161 0       -207.5     -34         -345.7       -69.9     -116.1      -127.7     -173.5      -196.8     -215.8      -239.2
3   LEota  EsNue.tl-oInc:_                            2612 9       2454.7     2675.9      1779.7     3294.2 2426.3           3523.4     3582.4      3724.8     4176 0      5900.7           5 6         4 0          4.0
4   iLporta                                           1084.0       1910.8      895.4       939.4       751.0      802.4      1073.1      817.3       845,1      1114.6     1211.7          -5 9          3.0         5.6
5.  Raperts - vlolL=                                  1054.7       1904.3      741.3       794.5      824.5       686.3       635.7      856.1       687.4      831.9      1867.5          -9.2         2 5          5.1         _ -
6.  Relports   7E TadJoted                             893.7        803.3      546.5       493.7      681.1       886.3       308.0      482.6       498.6      618.0       828.3          -7.2        .!.3          6.1         .93 
7              pssoorce  p-TT adjo.tad                 191 0        287.5      941.9       345.7       69.9       L16.1       565.1      334.7       354.5       398.6      383.4
8   Totl Uoonaapt00813-6                                     686 9       403.       25550      2654.9      2996.6      93261.4    3149.       2269.~5    4825.21     456.,.6                       29           .
9    ooaas,oani O ptl                                 2640 9°      19682.2    274055.7    2669.°3    26635.7 96719            767 1i    3768.0 o 7 63 7  8     1849.4      13333            1.9          5.7         4.8
I..  Natlotal 05o106e                                   430.4        464.5      394.1       914.2       676.4      537 1       267.4      484.4       580 6       693.0      986.0           1.1          3 2         7 3            7
11.  Deaeallc SatIlls                                   449.9        468.4      252.7       218.7       659.3      439.7       292.0      43333       456.3       650.9      949.9          -04           3.0         7 2
12.  GDr atc orrett 00 6                               1564.1       1866.2     2239.1      2564.4     2761.4      3542.4     4395.1      4702.6      5481.1     9999.3    18256.3           17.8         13.7        13.:
B.  6ECTOR OUTPUT                 11
(S6hr- of GDP at 1977 PrLt.s)
1.  Indoatry                                            16 3         17.5       16.0        13.1        14.4       13.8        14.2       14.2        14.4        15.3       16.6           1.3          5 1         6.4
2.  A  ottullnre                                        51 1         54.0       46.8        48.6        58.4       51.0        49.3       48.9        48.3        46.0       44.3           6.7          2.6         3.9
3.  Satnices                                            32.7         28 5       37.2        36.4        35.3       35.2        36.5       36 9        37.3        58.7       39.1           6.3          5 1         4.2
C.  YP_2
1.  toport Prite InOex                                  36.4         43 3       64.2        63 6        76.7      100.0        91.1       91.7        94.9       132.5      177.6          22.4          3.6         6.0
2 .  aaport PUltc tod3 C                                69.6         54.6      987. 1       94 .te      92 .8S    180.0       114.8       1 l 24.7   131.9 24379.0          229.1          19.4          7.6         5.0
3.   ares, of TLLad4                                    84.7         90.0       73.7        67 2        62.7      109.0        79.9        73.6       71.4        74.1       77.6
4.  GOP Daflatop (06 99                                 56.4         70.1        74.5       02.1        82.1      100.8       120.4      125.2       137.7       282.4      297.3          12.1          9.2         8.0
5.  A-or.g-  E         -thsoge  re (7886US$)           7.143        7.021       5.143      7.414       8.379      8.274       7.689      8.281
6.  4ZVTED  0901049999                                                 1972 -77    1978-65    1985-90
1   ICOR                                                              4 40        4 71       4 65
2.  laport Elasticty                                                 -0.22        0 73       0.77
3   A-erage  o-Eistlo bavitas  ate                                   17.2        11.9       15.2
4   Anersaa Natlootl SaoI=3s tate                                    19 0        12.7       15.3
5.  Hesl1oa1 NatIonaL $Savnlas 9ate                                  -0.24        0.35       0 24
6.    P.portl/GO                                                     29.8        22.3       20.1
7.  lnloaat,aet/16P                                                   2.48       22.0       22.6
8          -esotree GaYpGOT                                           7 6        10 1        7.4
E   168I 076982                                                          1971       8975
. Labor Porte (tI.l.oo.                                               5 8         6.3
7.  NEploynat (r share)                                             102.0       100 0
2 1   rltoltort                                                      91.0        84.0
2.2  odtatry                                                          2.0         6.0
2.3 `eruiea                                                            .0        10
2/No.                                                                                                             on
L   nLOUl YIN6ANCE                                                                                                     Attoal     ACttoa       Eat.
(8Ii801ot Tghil1loge)                                 1965166      1972173    1973/74    1974/75    1973176    1976177    1977/70    1978/79
1.  Datrant Rantt,nt                                    716         2557         3000       9546        3919       5250        6160        6969
1.1 Tao  .vn3.                                           622        1927         2560       3111        3302       4279         317        5721
2   D-rrant topendl-oro                                 707         2223         2795       3961        3716       4641        5592        6666
2.1 Gettoal Admitlatratlot                              267          749          944       1341        1293        1759       1870        2296
3   Daraat Oarinca                                         6         134          236        -15         203        609         569         302
4.  -orelgt Grata                                          .          62          214         377        469         626        709        1749
5   srrplna AsaIlabLe for Plraottoo
3evelop.eeot opao4itut,re                                     196         452         362         672       1235        1277       205l
6.  Deropat0pe3t 8atg01tnre                             238          936         1542       2225        2253        2763       3595        5780
7.   Otera1 Ll   fltlt                                   _          -762        -1190      -1I63       -1561      -1529       -2309      -3729
8   FLs3=tciNs0 otte Defteot
-otertal L-eoa                                    83          456         467         661         564        777         660       1834
loseatlo barroetlga
1.o58-teee                                      .          269         346         482         460       1336         536       1151
Shorn-tern                                     . .          35         377         719         537       -584        1112        745
L/  It 1966 prlos- atd 1977 loden base year
0/  ne=ttal G nero=ett                                                                                                                                                                           EALDA



0>                                   0 0    0'' X  =o                                                                          1  >            ft   Hn   
r ~  ~     ~     ff                                        --                       oC v  a0    0.                                co
5' ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      0 0 ='                                                       ___.  C   '00 0  
_ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~       .0 =C                    -ff                           -                    t't         ' 
c~~~~~~                      ft     0ffffttOt H
> S w o W _ _ N".0                                                                             0    f  _ t   tfu. wT vw- .  '-_ v ;Oi .  v ftI
0'0                                    0..                         S0 
n~~~~'                                    0' wt' v                                                                   "2               w_4 >01             wqvws g 
ft~ ~~ ~ ~   ~ 0'  ft                                                          w   0'         _4
-o.                                                       ..      f  t C 
C ~        ~         OOv                                   ft 00 v...htw    
H~~~~~ ~ 0'                                   0 0    0 HO  0o     -                 <ft  W W 0        0          "fD
ft~ ~~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ -  -                                          0- 000  HOC  00O                                IS |D
000~ ~~     ~       ~                      0 0 0    W H                     Cl.HH  VOO H  D~ WH 0H D.   C>           =
= ~    ~        0'            0                 0 0    -              0 OOf0\04                 00 V    0              HH.    HOC'tw v      
-  ~ H                     - I -                  d                        HIft D    V
*                                          .      . . .. I=o     otv v  'wo  



- 2 5 -                                                           ANN1 1e
TANZANIA
Debt' and Creditworthiness
Actua1
1972        1973        1974        1975        1976         1977
A. Medium and Long-term Debt (tisbursed Only)
(US $ Million)
1.  Total ,ebt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)                441.7       557.1       728.3        917.1      1029.2      1123.4
2.  Including Undisbursed                                      835.5       987.3      1280.5       1359.0      1555.9      1649.3
3.  Public Debt Service                                         43.3        39.3        32.4         34.1        41.6        48.4
3.1 Interest                                                    11.1        12.5         13.6        16.2        19.5        22.1
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                    ..           .      .                .
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                          11.3         9.3         6.8          7.3         6.6         7.1
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                             2.8         2.1          1.4         1.3         1.5         1.4
3.  Public Debt ServicelGovernment Revenue                      14.7        10.3         6.6          6.4         7.6         7.0
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Tctal DOD                              2.5         2.2          1.9         1.8         1.9          '.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                 9.8         7.1         4.4          3.7         4.0         4.3
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LI' Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/lmp-rts (incl. NFS)                     23.5        20.8        20.7         31.4        17.6        /Z.2
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (iccl. NFS)                            16.2        16.4        18.3         29.2        14.4        18.9
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                            68.8        79.1        88.3         92.8        82.1        85.2
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Grosr Total Disbursements                16.9        19.1        10.4        21.0         14.0        17.2
2.  Pank Group Disbursement/Gross Total Disbursements    19.4               21.8        14.0         28.2        37.2        37.8
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                          12.2        13.4        12.4         15.4        15.1        16.3
-.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOti                                   23.1        23.8        21.1        24.2         25.7        29.3
5.  18RD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                        10.2        15.3        20.4        26.4         34.1        33.1
6.  Bank Group Debt ServicelTotal Debt Service                  11.1        16.3        22.5         28.4        36.5        35.5
utstanding December 31  1977
Amount             Percent
(US B Million)
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                               183.3                  16.3
2.  Bank Group                                                                         328.6                 29.3
3.  Other Multilateral                                                                  24.9                  2.2
4.  Governments                                                                        722.0                 64.3
of which Centrally Planned Economies                                           314.4                  28.0
5.  Suppliers                                                                           18.9                  1.7
6.  Financial Institutions                                                              15.3                  1.4
7.  Bonds                                                                                7.6                  0.7
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.                                                                   6.1                 0.5
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt'                1/                                       1123.4                100.0
10.  Total Public Debt (incl. undisbursed)                                             1649.3                146.8
G. Debt Profile
1.  Total Debt Service 1977-82/Total DOD End of 1977                   38.8%
1/  Includes Tanzania's notional share of 407. of EAC debt.                                                                                                        EAIDA



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF APRIL 30. 1979
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
Undis-
No.         Year  Borrower             Purpose               Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/  bursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                 70.2           90.8
586-TA    1969  Tanzania  Roads                               7.0                    1.4
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                    10.8    1.8
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Education                                          10.3    2.6
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                          18.5    4.2
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                             17.5   10.4
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                            6.0    0.5
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                          21.0                    4.9
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                  8.5    2.6
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                                10.2    4.1
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                  10.0    6.3
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                               9.0                    1.4
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                              10.0    6.8
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                             15.0                   3.0
1172-TA    1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank         15.0                    1.8
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                                6.0    4.0
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                             18.0   12.2
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Education                                          11.0    8.2
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                     30.0            17.4
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                             7.0                   5.1
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                           9.0    8.4
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                  8.0    1.8
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                  15.0                  13.9
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex               11.5              6.6
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                        6.5
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                          7.2    6.1
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                          12.0   11.9
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                           15.0   14.6
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                  11.5
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                   27.5   20.7
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                   14.0   14.0
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                      12.0   12.0
1607-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                   25.0                   25.0
833-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                   20.0   20.0
860-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                             14.0   14.0
861-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                    12.0   12.0
861-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania Mufindi Pulp and Paper                              30.0   30.0
1650-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania Mufindi Pulp and Paper              30.0                   30.0
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                      _               20.5   20.5
Total                                                     240.7  41.5   428.8  378.2
of which has been repaid                               5.9      -     7.3
Total now outstanding                                234.8  41.5   421.5
Amount sold                           0.1
of which has been repaid           0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                         284.8  41.5   421.5
Total undisbursed                                         104.5  24.0   249.7  378.2
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX IT
Page 2 ort:
B.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF APRIL 30, 1979
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/           Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC           Harbours             35.0                0.7
674-EA  1970    EARC           Railways             42.4                1.9
865-EA  1972    EAHC           Harbours             26.5                1.1
914-EA  1973    EAPTC          Telecommunications  32.5                 5.5
1204-EA  1976    EADB           Development Finance 15.0                 7.8
Total                                           244.8               17.0
of which has been repaid                      49.9
Total now outstanding                           194.9
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid       24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       194.9
Total un,disbursed                               17.0               17.0
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
(As of April 30, 1979)
There are currently 34 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey, additional planting has been carried out and effective rehabilitation
and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba area. Bank recommenda-
tions regarding crop yields, husbandry techniques, field organization, TTA
structure and extension activities are being implemented. Furthermore, market
trends in tea have taken a favorable turn. In general, progress on the
project is improving. The closing date was postponed to allow sufficient time
for completion of the Mwakaleli factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. The most serious issue is the
lack of adequate financial support from the Treasury; this issue was taken up
during the last review and the Tanzania Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
progress of projects in execution and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX I.
Page 4 ot 517
is organizing a meeting between NARCO, the Commissioner for Public Investment
(CPI) and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) to address the issue of
equity contribution. In summary, although progress has been made, major
problems remain and require continued attention. The closing date of the
Credit may have to be postponed by 12 months in order to complete the ranch
development program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project continued to show good progress since the appointment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather
than an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began.  Project problems remaining are   the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is
proceeding in accordance with the revised completion schedule which is about
nine months behind the appraisal estimate. Processing plant and machinery
has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment for the remaining
three factories. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) is experiencing difficulties
in recruiting factory staff and training candidates. CATA take over of the
industry and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly and its
management capabilities are limited.  Therefore, while the Government's
consultants have effectively supervised construction and the project includes
provision of technical assistance for factory operation, the development of
CATA is important to future progress and is receiving close attention.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project implementation and disbursements remain well behind appraisal
estimates. During the past six months, progress has been slow due to continued
weak management at both the regional and district levels, the loss of signifi-
cant numbers of trained agricultural and cooperatives staff as a result of
their appointment as Village Managers, and the outbreak of cholera in two of
the region's three districts. To allow for a period of consolidation of
project management, only four additional villages are to be included in the
investment program for the next fiscal year, bringing the total number of
project villages to 61. A joint Government/Bank Group midterm evaluation of
the project was conducted in late October 1978.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The development of estate cane plantations has been completed.
Kilombero Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers
continues and is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than
expected cane yields. The inability of the transport system to supply cane
to both factories is a serious constraint to sugar production and the opera-
tion of the new management advisory agreement show some weaknesses (mainly
because Tanzanian senior staff could not be found to fill the line positions
vacated by expatriates). After heavy losses in 1977, mostly due to difficul-
ties in starting operations of the new factory, KSC is now nearing the break-
even point. Phase III of the Sugar Study has been started and should be
completed shortly. With regard to the Sugar Development Corporation's
request to Treasury to consider KSC's proposals as to its debt-equity ratio,
the Treasury has decided to provide KSC TSh. 100 million as equity and
TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish sources. The loan will be at an
interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years repayment including 5 years of grace.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under preparation and is expected to be
signed by the Treasury soon.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 19811
The Project appears to be progressing at a slower pace than antici-
pated and fishing operations are now expected to begin by mid-1979. Eight
vessels for the coastal commercial centers are already under construction,
and procurement of engines and fishing gear is in progress. Tender documents



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
for the procurement of steel boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center are being
finalized. The recent outbreaksof cholera at Lake Tanganyika have caused a
setback in P'roject activities on the Lake, particularly the Ujamaa Village
Program, and steps have been taken to speed up the identification of suitable
villages and the preparation of investment plans.
Credit No. 606-TA -- National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
A:Lthough the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm re-
view of the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 a draft proposal
for a three year Intensification Phase, extending the project period from
July 1979 to June 1982. A draft Credit Agreement has been prepared and dis-
cussed by the Association and BADEA, the co-financier. We expect to obtain
Treasury cleaarance of the amendments to the Credit Agreement soon.
Credit No. 580-TA -- Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the parastatal dairy farms continues to be success-
fully implemented and the miLk processing expansion is almost completed. The
loan security/occupancy rights problems have been resolved for most farms. A
shortage of suitable cattle and lack of milk pasteurizing facilities at Mbeya
are imminent problems. The lJjamaa component proceeds slowly and the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank is actively investigating alternative means of assist-
ing village milk production and consumption. The foot and mouth disease
control inv,sstigation has commenced.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of Ju:Ly 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, project implementa-
tion has improved considerably and is now more or less on schedule. The
nurseries are well stocked and maintained, and the current planting program
should be on schedule. Progress on fire protection, road construction and
buildings is satisfactory. All posts are now filled and management has
been reinforced. There are no serious procurement or disbursement prob-
lems, although both are still slightly behind schedule.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed in April 1978, a
year behind schedule. The delay did not interfere with processing, as the
crop was only 14.5 m kg against an estimated 20 m kg. Equipment for the new
line is arriving and the line will be operative by April 1979 when factory
capacity will be about 40 m kg against probable production of 20-26 m kg.
Efforts will therefore be made to step up production during the 1978/79 sea-
son to ensure a good factory throughput in 1979. Building work at Morogoro
is proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are awaited
from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsibilities
of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high bank
overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TSh. 29 million to TAT for
local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition, TAT has also
claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost incurred by them
during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been audited and the report
is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-5-TA - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Although delays have been experienced in some components such as
delivery of supplies, equipment and vehicles, and shortag% of skilled staff
for certain technical posts, overall project performance is satisfactory.
Good progress has been made in the establishment of village trials, devel-
opment of livestock infrastructure (dips and veterinary centers) in three
villages, and establishment of 150 ha. of fuelwood plantation and prepara-
tion of an additional 170 ha. The Water Master Plan is almost complete and
the land use planning team is fully operational. Disbursements are up to
appraisal estimates.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 801-TA -, Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978. As the Cashewnut
Authority's (CATA) current budget have not included funds for this second
phase, a request will be made to the Treasury to allocate the necessary
fund'.
Credit No. 802-TA -. Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
C].osing Date - April 30, 1983
This credit became effective on January 5, 1979. The Transport
Officer, Systems Accountant and Building Engineer are in post. Three of
the five Regional Accountants have been identified and advertisement for
the other 2 has been done.
Ciredit No. 803-TA -. Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of
Eifectiveness - March 5, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on March 5, 1979. While some of
the Senior support staff havet been recruited a number of key posts remains to
be filled. Evaluation of bids for vehicles had been completed. The Central
Tender Board's recommendation regarding the bids is expected to be forwarded
to the Bank shortly.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 23, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
91%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed by 18 months to December 31, 1979. Total project cost is now
estimated at: about TSh. 109 million, an increase of approximately 5% over the
appraisal estimate of TSh. 104 million. The Government does not foresee any
financial problem in providing the required additional funds. Three Community
Education Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village
development, education and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational
Training Centers are in operaLtion at almost full capacity. The technical
assistance and fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching
funds disbursed. Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship
component of the project are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for Village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvements. Housing construction is in line with VMT training
which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment of over
500 V4Ts as Village Managers in January 1978. There were also delays in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy experts for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit is not yet effective.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: 1/ US$6.5
million Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The contract for the road construction component of this project
was signed in March 1974, two years later than scheduled and at a cost much
higher than estimated. The Bank reduced the primary road construction
1/   The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated
to the Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was postponed to
December 31, 1978.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
component from 200 km to 82 km and transferred US$1.9 million balance from
the completed Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA) to meet the higher costs.
The AfDB made a loan of 4 million units of account (US$4.8 million equiva-
lent) for the other 118 km. The 66 km of new construction on the primary
road is complete except for about 1/4 km of bridge approaches. Additional
investigatory work by the MOW on the remaining 16 km of existing sealed road
has confirmed the feasibility of undertaking minimum improvements and resealing
this section. The Mara betterment work has been completed and the Geita work
is scheduled for completion in mid-1979.  Government has received the final
reports of the two preinvestment studies. Funds available under Credit 265-TA
have been fully disbursed. Since only US$1.4 million of the funds reallocated
remain undisbursed, buthave been fully committed, it was decided not to extend
the closing date of this credit.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
After a slow start dlue mainly to delays in arranging technical
assistance, the project implementation is now improving. Twelve of the 21
local staff positions are filled and virtually all expatriate experts will
have local counterparts to train. Equipment valued at about US$5.25 million
has been procured to date. Road camps have been built and equipment deployed.
Rehabilitation, regravelling and routine maintenance activities have improved
in both quality and quantity. The project may, however, not be completed
by the present closing date of June 30, 1979; this date will therefore need
to be postponed.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 16 people in post
or approved and recruitment of another 10 well underway. Some difficulty is
being experienced in finding adequate housing for both expatriate and local
staff but the Minister for Communications and Transport is trying to address
this problem. The Government has not yet submitted its plan for improving the
supply and distribution of vehicle spare parts. Planning for the data col-
lection system is well in hand and a study is proposed to define the role and
objectives of the National Institute of Transport (NIT) and the type and
number of courses it should provide.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project: US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
95% complete. Education facilities for the Dar es Salaam sites have been
tendered; the rest of the community facilities in the project are to be ten-
dered soon. Progress on the lending program administered by the Tanzania
Housing Bank is slow but likely to pick up. Total project cost is estimated
(at current exchange rates) at US$15 million, compared to the appraisal esti-
mate of US$16.7 million.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents. Preparation of the small scale industry component is also making
satisfactory progress. All project staff have now been appointed. The Con-
sultants' report on the Land Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by
the Government in January 1978 and a pilot test of the new system for cost
recovery proposed in the study is to be carried out in Morogoro.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, one
is practically completed, two are in progress, one was awarded in December
1978 and one is expected to be awarded soon. The project is expected to
be in operation in November/December 1980, 18 months behind schedule. The
establishment and operation of an Urban Water Supply Fund within the Min-
istry of Water, Energy and Mlinerals is about two years behind schedule. The
project cost is currently estimated at TSh. 263 million, a 65% increase over
the appraisal estimate of TSh.160 million. About 85% of this increase is
due to the high price of the Mindu Dam contract. Progress in project imple-
mentation will have to be closely watched and the expected large project cost
overruns reviewed in detail during the next supervision mission.



- 37 -
ANNEX IT
Page 1? of 17
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts have
been awarded. Current estimated project cost is US$117 million compared
to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost overrun of 31%. The foreign
exchange gap in IBRD/SIDA-financed portion is about US$14.1 million. SIDA
has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its allocation to cover
its proportionate share of the cost overruns (about US$6 million), Plans
to make any additional contribution by the Bank to bridge the gap will have
to be discussed and reviewed by mid-1979.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding satis-
factorily.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan was committed to the amount of US$10.0 million. Commit-
ments are proceeding ahead of schedule and the loan is likely to be fully
committed within the nextfew months.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill
and is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million
linear meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable. There
has been a deterioration in the operating performance of the existing Mwanza
plant as well as some other textile mills. The National Textile Corporation
(TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to in-
stitute an immediate action program to improve the operating performance of
existing mills. All processing machineries have been commissioned except
for one but this is now in Dar es Salaam and installation is expected to be
completed soon.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Total commitments as of May 31, 1978wereUS$2.1 million of which
US$1.7 million, US$0.3 million and US$0.1 million were for consultancy ser-
vices, training and project unit services, respectively. The procedures
for processing proposals have recently been streamlined and it is expected
that the pace of commitments and disbursements will be increased as a
result.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. The canvas mill is scheduled to be commissioned
in June 1981. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly higher than
those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit is not yet effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project:  US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date -. June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighteerage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both :Loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
both countries is competent. Some US$34.2 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
1/   Since Cctober 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                      (US$ million)
Kenya                                   0.7
Tanzania                                0.6
Total                               1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                   1.7
Tanzania                                0.3
Total                               2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.0
Tanzania                 3.8
Uganda                   1.9
Total                    7.7



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:  US$32.5
miLlion Loan of June! 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables an<1 subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procure-
ment caused by staffing and olther problems associated with the relocation
of headquarters. At February 28, 1979, about US$27.1 million of the loan
had been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October
1977 among the countries concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.4
Tanzania                 3.5
Uganda                   0.1
Total                    6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$7.2 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to US$3.0
million.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF APRIL 30, 1979
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing   3.96    0.70    4.66
1978            Highland Soap              Soap Manufacture  1.37    0.40    1.77
Total gross commitments                     5.33    1.10    6.43
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC           1.37    0.40    1.77
Total Undisbursed                           1.37    0.40    1.77



- 43 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
TANGANIYIKA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project              Not applicable
(b)  Preparation by                             Not applicable
(c)  Initial discussion with the Bank           November 1975
(d)  First Bank mission                         May 1978
(e)  Appraisal mission departure                November 1978
(f)  Negotiations                               May 1979
(g)  PLanned date of effectiveness               September 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
(a)  Until it has accumulated reserves in excess of 25% of paid up
capital, TDFL would maintain a maximum 50% payout ratio after
taxes and bad debts to permit it to accumulate more internal
resources for operation (para. 49).
(b)  TDFL's debt to equity ratio would not be allowed to exceed 3:1
(para. 50).
(c)  TDFL would seek prior approval of all subprojects in excess
of US$250,000 and aggregate approvals under the free limit
would not be in excess of US$3.5 million (para. 56 (b)).



