r          --  - .s '
Document of
The World Bank                          c - 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE   COPY
Report No. 1807-PO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
April 3, 1978
Education & Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
July 1977
Currency Unit                   -    Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
Esc. 39                                               US $1.00
Esc.  1                                              US $0.025
Esc.  1 million                                    US $25,640
Measures
l m2                                           10.76 sq. feet
1 km2                                          0.38 sq. miles
1 hectare (ha)                  -                  2.47  acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT 1/
EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
I.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ......................                      I
Social and Economic Factors Affecting the Sector ..                    1
The Present Education System .....            .................        2
Educational Development Strategy ..................                    4
Education Costs .....................................                  9
The Bank's Role in the Education Sector ...........                   10
II.    THE PROJECT             ............................................        12
Objectives and Composition .....           ...................        12
Technician Training Institutes ..              ..................     14
Vocational Training ............ ...................                  15
Teachers of Handicapped Children ........ .. ........                 16
Integrated Center for Teacher Training              ............      17
Basic Cycle Teacher Training .....            .................       19
Management Training Centers ...........        .. ..........          20
Studies ...........................................                   21
Curriculum Development  .....           .......................       22
Technical Assistance .............................                    22
III.    COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS .....            ...................       24
Cost of the Project             ...............................       24
Financial Plan ....................................                   26
Implementation           ....................................         27
Procurement          .......................................          28
Disbursements         .....................................           29
1/   An appraisal mission comprising Messrs. C. L. Germanacos (consultant,
educational planner and mission leader), B. L. Masters (general educator,
deputy mission leader), W. W. Hobbs (technical educator), A. A. Andonyadis
(architect) and M. Zymelman (economist, CPS) visited Portugal from June 14
to July 8, 1977. Mr. I. Erim (loan officer) joined the mission on July 2,
1977. The management training component was subsequently appraised by
Mr. C. N. Lindsay (deputy division chief) who visited Portugal from
February 13 to 18, 1978.
This document has a restricted disiribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



E86-B-17
Table of Contents (Continued)                                          Page No.
IV.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .............................    29
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....      ..............    32
ANNEXES
1.   CHART AND STATISTICAL TABLES
Chart  1.0  The Structure of the Education System
Tables 1.1 Comparative Education Indicators
1.2 Evolution of the Labor Force
1.3 Education Enrollments, 1974-75
1.4 Growth of Educational Expenditures
1.5 Capital, Recurrent and Unit Costs, 1975
1.6 Actual and Projected Enrollments and
Teacher Requirements
1.7 Projected Teacher Requirements
1.8 Projected Physical Facilities Requirements
2.1 Teacher Training Institutes: Capacity,
Enrollments and Annual Outputs
2.2 Revised Technical Assistance Schedules
2.3 Revised List of Critical Activities
3.1 Contingency Allowance
3.2 Unit Capital Costs and Areas per Student
3.3 Overall Schedule of Project Implementation
3.4 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
2.   RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAP



GLOSSARY
MEIC:               The Ministry of Education and Scientific Investigation.*
MIT:                The Ministry of Industry and Technology.
EEC:                The European Economic Community (Common Market).
DGESUP:             The General Directorate of Higher Education within MEIC.
GEP:                The Office of Research and Planning within MEIC.
Returnado:          A person returning to Portugal from the former colonies.
Numerus Clausus:   Restrictions placed on numbers of students admitted to
courses in particular institutions.
Basic Schooling:   A broad term covering primary grades (1-4) and preparatory
grades (5-6) which are presently usually located in
separate premises.
Resource Center:   A center for training teachers in pre-service and in-service
programs with emphasis on provision of materials and equip-
ment as resources which allow teachers to develop ideas
and skills in preparing and utilizing instructional aids.
An institution with library and multi-media facilities
available to teachers from schools in the region; also
equipped with mobile learning units which will visit all
schools.
Technician
Training:           A short-term (2-year) period of practically-oriented
training in post-secondary level non-university institu-
tions comprising approximately equal amounts of general
theory, technical theory and technical practice.
Estagio:            A period, usually of one year, of practical teaching
following academic study. Often, this is the only pedago-
gical training received by preparatory and secondary teach-
ers.   Normally, the estagio is undertaken only after two
years of actual teaching but is intended to fulfill both
pre-service and in-service pedagogical training functions.
Typically, five or six teachers will be assigned to one
master teacher in one class or subject with each teaching
only five to eight periods per week but receiving full
teaching salary.
*The name of this ministry was changed to the Ministry of Education and
Culture following a government re-shuffle in January 1978.






REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
Basic Data (1975)
Total Population                                      9.6 million
Estimated Rate of Population Growth                   0.6% p.a.
Per Capita GNP                                       US $1630
Literacy Rate                                         70%
Primary School Enrollment (Gr. 1-4) La as a
Percentage of Age-Group  7-10                   138%/b
Preparatory School Enrollment (Gr. 5-6) /a as a           'b
Percentage of Age-Group  11-12                  74% /-
Secondary School Enrollment (Gr. 7-11) as a
Percentage of Age-Group 13-17                   49% /b
Higher Education Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age-Group 18-22                    8%
Central Government Expenditure on Education          20.6% recurrent
As a  Percentage of Total Government             6.8% capital
Expenditure                                     17.8% total
Central Government Expenditures on Education
As a Percentage of GDP                           4.4%
/a Combined basic schooling (Gr. 1-6) enrollment ratio is 116% including
over-age but about 98% as net ratio.
/b Gross enrollment ratio including over-age pupils.






I. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Social and Economic Factors Affecting the Sector
1.01      Portugal is going through a period of profound social and economic
changes. A democratically elected government has taken office recently. An
economy which relied heavily on colonial markets is being restructured to
respond to the new demands of its citizenry and to compete effectively in new
markets. These changes are proceeding in spite of adverse conditions: the
loss of the colonies brought many immigrants who swelled the ranks of the
unemployed; the downturn of the world economy after 1973 forestalled the pos-
sibility of successfully shifting export markets and, simultaneously, slowed
the regular emigration stream and the remittances received from Portuguese
workers abroad.
1.02      In 1974, about 37.6% of the population in the age-group 15-64 was
employed in the labor force; a high 26% of these were women. By sector, agri-
culture absorbed 28%, industry 35% and services 37%. The 1977-80 Plan esti-
mates the labor participation rate to increase only slightly to 38.1% by 1980
(Annex 1, Table 1.2). Government plans call for improved agricultural produc-
tivity, modernization of the textile industry and expansion of the metal and
machinery, petrochemical and electrical equipment industries with particular
emphasis upon the expansion of construction and housing.
1.03      Portugal is facing a severe unemployment problem which is concen-
trated among poorly educated manual workers, school graduates without any
skills and low-skilled clerical workers who together represent about 60% of
the unemployed registered with the Employment Service. The 1977-80 Plan
assumes that the official unemployment rate will be reduced from 12.7% in 1976
to 6.4% in 1980 (Annex 1, Table 1.2) mainly through the creation of jobs in
the construction industry and the services sector. In view of the high unem-
ployment rate no immediate need exists for quantitative expansion in training
skilled manpower to fullfill the 1977-80 Plan. However, there is a need for
increasing productivity of the existing labor force and preparing better those
entering the labor market. Such re-training is a high government priority
and would concentrate on the unemployed and on returning emigrants in order
to provide a stock of manpower trained in the new skills required as the
Portuguese economy changes and as Portugal prepares to enter the EEC. At the
same time, loss of experienced managers in private enterprises through emi-
gration in 1974/75 has intensified the need for training managerial personnel.
1.04      The 1977-80 Plan only indicates growth rates and broad manpower
trends; however, a limited manpower projection based on available data suggests
that about 1,400 post-secondary level industrial technicians, 500 agricultural
technicians and 6,000 middle-management personnel in commercial and tourism
services will be required annually. In support of the proposed expansion of
specific industries, there is a clear need for training middle and high level
technicians, particularly in such areas as electronics, instrumentation and
process control, refrigeration and air-conditioning, drafting, food technology,
industrial electricity, and commercial and business programs.



-2-
The Present Education System
1.05      A sector review in the form of a World Bank Project Identification
Mission Report (Report No. 1545-PO) was discussed with the government in March
1977; some of the more pertinent points are summarized below:
1.06      The Ministry of Education and Scientific Investigation (MEIC) is
responsible for administering education and training. While regional admin-
istration is contemplated, it is unlikely to be put into practice within the
next five years. The Research and Planning Office (GEP within MEIC) has
qualified staff to perform adequate planning functions. However, the GEP
has been constrained by political uncertainties from undertaking the planning
necessary to present alternative development proposals to the policy decision-
makers. The Directorate of Higher Education (DGESUP), which will administer
the proposed project, is well-staffed and active in addressing educational
development problems and priorities.
1.07      In 1974-75, the formal education system consisted of four years of
primary and two years of preparatory (henceforth to be combined as basic
schooling -- grades 1-6), followed by five years of secondary education
(general and technical), which is divided into a three-year lower and a
two year upper secondary cycle (Annex 1, Chart 1). From 1978, a third year
will be added to the upper secondary cycle commencing with schools in selected
areas. Since 1976, technical (vocational) programs have been phased out of
lower secondary (grades 7-9) schools. Primary teacher training institutions
have been admitting lower secondary graduates into a three-year program
(grades 10-12) but beginning in 1978 only upper secondary graduates will be
admitted. In 1974, three year (grades 12-14) technician training institutions
were established; during their first year, however, their function was changed
by decree to professional engineering colleges. Higher education has consisted
of a three-year cycle leading to a Baccalaureate which may be followed by a
two-year cycle leading to a Licenciatura in a specialized field.
1.08      Enrollments at the primary level (grades 1-4) are declining slightly
by about 10-15,000 annually due to a decline in the birth rate and improvement
in progression rates. In 1976-77, automatic promotion was introduced between
grades 1-2 and 3-4; as a result of this and of the intention to improve the
promotion rate at the end of the primary cycle from the present low 55-60%,
increased enrollments are anticipated in preparatory and secondary grades from
1978. High repetition ratios averaging 20% and 23% in general and technical
secondary schools, respectively, are expected to be reduced gradually by 1980.
At each level, 30-50% of enrollments are outside the age-range, resulting in
a wide distribution of age in each class; improved progression ratios for all
grades by 1980 are expected to alleviate this inefficiency. Girls are well
represented as a proportion of the total and are fairly evenly distributed
throughout each level and type of schooling.
1.09      Following the revolution in 1974, many private schools have been
incorporated into the public system and as a result, private education is
negligible in all cycles except general secondary (32%). During the ensuing
period of political turmoil, the six successive governments have been unable



- 3 -
to contain the rapid expansion of higher education from 49,000 in 1970 to over
70,000 in 1975. The present government has curtailed intakes to permit
a maximum enrollment of 80,000 and to redress imbalances among the disciplines
to match more adequately the anticipated manpower requirements (Annex 1, Table
1.2).
1.10      With over 88,000 teachers, Portugal has a quantitatively adequate
corps for all levels of schooling. Pupil:teacher ratios of 27, 12 and 14 at
primary, preparatory and secondary levels are low due to small class sizes and
a high degree of specialist subject teaching even at the preparatory level
(Annex 1, Table 1.3). Due to a widespread program of in-service upgrading and
pedagogical training since 1973, about 95% of primary teachers are now trained.
Prior to 1975, the two pre-primary and 27 primary teachers' training institutes
offered a two-year program equivalent to upper secondary level (grades 10-11)
with minimal pedagogical studies; a third year of largely practice teaching
has since been added. The large number of institutions permit easy access to
local trainees but 15 have uneconomical enrollments below the minimal 200. The
quality of the teacher training is poor, due in part to unsatisfactory teaching
methods and almost complete lack of modern teaching equipment. Nearly 50% of
the training institutions are in unsuitable rented buildings. From 1978, the
government intends to upgrade and reorganize pre-primary and primary teacher
training.
1.11      Less than 30% of the 48,000 preparatory and secondary teachers are
professionally qualified and about 75% possess a university Baccalaureate.
Until recently closed due to political unrest, post-graduate pedagogical
courses for secondary teachers were offered at the University of Lisbon. In
1974, no formal pre-service training was available for either preparatory or
secondary teachers. In 1975 and 1976, three new universities established
concurrent courses in pedagogy and psychology; about 200 students attended,
most of whom were practising preparatory and secondary teachers enrolled on a
part-time basis. In addition, between 1,500 and 2,000 selected preparatory
and secondary teachers receive one year of pedagogical preparation annually in
ordinary preparatory and secondary schools from experienced teachers through
an in-service internship program (estagio). Other subject-oriented in-service
courses are infrequent and of less than one week's duration. The proposed
project would establish an Integrated Center for Teacher Training in the new
University of Aveiro to train secondary, preparatory, primary and pre-primary
teachers in concurrent pedagogical programs and provide assistance to plan the
introduction of a post-graduate pedagogical program.
1.12      Technical training has developed unevenly.  Well-equipped secondary
schools provide commercial, industrial and agricultural programs, and a number
of specialized institutes cater for the fine arts. While universities and
the recently upgraded "institutes" offer degree programs in many professional
fields, no self-contained technician level diploma courses exist. Several
ministries are involved in various aspects of manpower training for adults
of 18 years and over, but no programs are available for drop-outs or early
leavers from the school system. In view of the manpower requirements (para
1.04) and of the strongly expressed needs of major industrial firms, the
proposed project is intended to redress the serious gap which now exists for



-4-
the training of mid-level and high-level technicians in particular fields
of specialization and to initiate a pilot scheme in five geographic regions
to absorb into a basic skills training program the out-of-school 15-16 year
olds.
1.13      Curricula at all levels are traditional in subject distribution
within grades and programs. Increasing emphasis is being placed on practical
crafts and the sciences at post-primary levels; however, most schools are
not equipped nor teachers trained to implement practical work in any subject
field. Curricula development, research, evaluation and materials design and
production are neither coordinated nor systematic, with each division working
independently on subject content and textbook revisions for each grade. The
government has produced a four volume report outlining reform proposals to
establish a national network for curriculum design, development and evalua-
tion which would be supported by technical assistance in the present project.
1.14      In all but technical upper secondary schools, an excessive lack
of functional school buildings, equipment and materials contribute adversely
to the efficiency, quality and productivity of the education system. Most
existing urban schools at all levels operate on a two or three shift basis
with reduced class hours (20-25 hours and 15-20 hours per week respectively
depending on the level) with restriction in instructional content. Small
class sizes, under-utilization of teachers and poor school management accen-
tuate inefficiency. The government is conscious of these difficulties and is
trying to reduce the need for multiple shifts by a more effective distribution
of enrollments in urban schools, construction of about 200 preparatory and
secondary schools and increasing teacher utilization and teaching hours while
reducing administrative duties for teachers to improve the general efficiency
of schooling.
1.15      Functional illiteracy is estimated at about 30% of the adult popula-
tion, with rural areas more seriously affected; this is one of the highest
rates in Europe. Private and government industry conduct a considerable range
of evening courses for illiterate workers (male and female). A study of adult
education is currently being conducted by a bilateral agency. Non-formal
vocational skills training is restricted by law to adults of 18 years and
older in a wide range of programs including construction, manufacturing and
service trades in well equipped training centers. The quality of training by
technically and pedagogically qualified teachers is considered by industry to
be fairly good.  However, employment opportunities are not readily available
and recently such centers have been severely under-utilized. Those who have
received training but remain unemployed are eligible for increased unemployment
compensation which severely drains available government resources. The MEIC
and the Office of Employment have studied this problem and are confident that
new measures to be introduced and the provision of different programs will
re-vitalize these skills training programs.
Educational Development Strategy
1.16      The development of the education sector in Portugal has been seriously
constrained in recent years by tradition-bound inequities and imbalances, by



-5-
the rapid changes of government, and the attendant lack of continuity in
education management, policies and planning. On the other hand, a sound
basis exists for assuring successful reorganization and reform through:
(i)  a well-established quantitative base (para 1.08);
(ii)  an adequate supply of primary and preparatory (basic cycle)
teachers who can be rapidly upgraded or pedagogically
trained (paras 1.10 and 1.11);
(iii)  a number of existing reform measures in which action can be
intensified, notably with reorganization of teacher educa-
tion and in curriculum development (paras 1.10, 1.11 and
1.13);
(iv)  an adequate planning capability, provided direction is
given (para 1.06); and
(v) the strong interest expressed by external sources to provide
financial and technical assistance.
1.17      The 1977-80 Plan contains the government's strategy for educational
development. A wide range of measures is proposed without any specific order
of priority being assigned. The major objectives include:
(i) To improve the internal efficiency and quality of schooling.
In 1973-74, repetition rates averaged 25%, 14% and 22% in
primary, preparatory and secondary schools respectively;
school leaver rates of 25%, 50% and 55% in grades 4, 6, and
9 respectively were also high. In 1976, the government
initiated automatic promotion between some grades (para
1.08) but teachers and parents still need to be persuaded
that excessive or continued repetition should be avoided.
The building program is intended to replace the most unsatis-
factory buildings and equipment (para 1.14) and to construct
new preparatory and secondary schools to cater to projected
enrollment increases at these levels. However, the organiza-
tion and structure of the education system is still being
debated. Until a firm policy decision is reached, construc-
tion of schools for particular levels and specialized teach-
ing requirements is wisely postponed. Such a decision is
expected by mid-1978 following the completion of alterna-
tive planning models. Nevertheless, a key priority for the
government is improvement in the quality of schooling; the
immediate strategy is directed toward improvement of all
levels of teacher training.
(ii) To improve the quality and professional competence of the
entire teaching force. The government is also conscious
of the need to reduce various imbalances within the teaching
corps and to rationalize the provision of teachers in line



- 6 -
with projected pupil enrollments. It is estimated that, by 1985,
the number of teachers required for grades 1 through 6 would be
reduced from the present 55,000 to about 41,000 but that the
number of secondary teachers should increase from 29,000 to nearly
36,000. At the same time, demand for pre-primary teachers is
projected to increase from the present 1,830 to about 6,000
(Annex 1, Table 1.6). These estimated teacher requirements
should be met through planned re-training and upgrading programs
as well as an overall reduction in total enrollments from 6,000 to
about 2,000 primary and 1,700 pre-primary teachers in training by
1985 (Annex 1, Table 1.7). The government is faced with the
politically difficult task of phasing out several existing small
and obsolete teacher training institutes if a continued oversupply
is to be avoided. To improve quality, the government is (a) seek-
ing to rationalize the distribution of and enrollment in primary
teacher training institutes, (b) initiating re-training programs
to assist surplus primary teachers to teach at other levels,
(c) introducing university courses in pedagogy for preparatory
and secondary teachers, (d) upgrading to post-secondary level all
pre-primary and primary training programs, (e) establishing,
through the project, pilot regional teacher training institutes
for primary teachers as models for future replacement of other
inadequate facilities. These measures are commendable and,
although planning and caution in initiating such actions are
needed, they should lead to greatly improved quality within the
teaching corps. The MEIC has submitted a detailed plan of these
measures.
(iii) To adjust education and training provisions to meet manpower needs
better. The government has recognized severe disparities in the
provision for training of technicians and of unemployed youth
(para 1.12). In view of the abundant supply of engineers, the
government intends to phase out from 1979 three existing engineer-
ing colleges to coincide with the introduction of the two-year
technician training institutes to be provided in the project so
that the total number of post-secondary technical student places
will be maintained and also that the more appropriate and required
needs of industry will be met. New enrollments to universities
faculties of engineering have been restricted to 1,600 annually;
only about 1,000 enrolled in 1977/78. At the same time, the high
rate of unemployment is a major concern and the government is keen
to initiate programs for early school leavers which will provide
opportunities for learning general skills which can be utilized
in several apprenticeship occupations. The five regional pilot
programs included in the project seek to meet this need and to be
the basis for future programs throughout the country. As part of
this effort to adjust education and training programs to meet the
nation's manpower needs better, the government has provided an
assurance that, by December 1, 1978, a study will be initiated
to determine Portugal's needs for trained manpower of all types
and levels of specialization up to 1990 and to assess the current



and planned sources and amounts of such manpower to be produced
within this period. The findings of the study would be made
available to the Bank by November 30, 1979.
(iv) To extend the range of compulsory schooling to six years and to
extend secondary schooling from grade 11 to grade 12. Although
these are stated as objectives of the 1977-80 Plan, they are more
likely to be realized by 1985. However, the intention to lower
the age of entry from 7 to 6 years of age in successive stages
by 1980 is possible since 32% of 6 year olds already attend
school. Adequate numbers of teachers are available. The
proposal to introduce a further year of secondary schooling
(grade 12) prior to entry to post-secondary institutions has
not been sufficiently planned to allow immediate implementation
despite strong support from higher education authorities.
(v) To assure increased access to schooling for all children:
(a) Children at the primary level have good access to schooling
except in the remotest areas not served by roads. The
50,000 children currently taught in grades 5 and 6 solely
through television find some difficulty in adjusting to
secondary schools if they choose to attend and live away
from home. The government therefore intends to increase
the provision of preparatory schools to improve quality
of access at least for the first six years of basic cycle
schooling. The Plan proposes the construction, over the
next five years, of about 200 preparatory and secondary
schools to absorb increasing enrollments. Bilateral agencies
are assisting with financing some construction but until the
structure of the system is determined and curricula require-
ments prepared, Bank investment in construction and equipment
would be unwise. The government has already indicated that
this item would be a high priority for any subsequent Bank
loan.
(b) The government also proposes to extend facilities for
pre-school children, many of whom are currently attending
private kindergartens. This policy is being put into
practice as needs are made known and physical facilities and
teaching staff in existing primary schools become available.
However, in view of the recurrent costs involved in such
expansion, more thorough planning and costing as well as an
assessment of the relative priorities of pre-school educa-
tion in relation to other levels of education and training,
especially basic adult training, are desirable before a
decision can be made granting access to all 5-year olds.
(c) Access to schooling for an estimated 380,000 handicapped
children of school-age is also a government priority. In
1975, only about 3,000 handicapped children were contacted



- 8 -
or specifically assisted by MEIC. While the government's
policy is to include handicapped children within regular
classrooms, special classes and special schools have been
established for the more severely handicapped. The policy
of greater access is and will continue to be hampered by
lack of trained teachers and by appropriate facilities for
the more severely handicapped children. Bilateral agencies
are assisting with expertise and equipment in a few fields;
the present project includes provision for an institute to
train teachers to teach children with learning difficulties,
audio and sDeech handicaDs. visual disorders, mental defi-
ciencies and motor and physical handicaps.
(vi) To accelerate and improve planning activities. Due to the pre-
viously unsettled conditions, planning functions need to be
stabilized. Numerous gaps also need to be filled in information
considered essential for decision-making. The MEIC has the
personnel and the procedures for gathering and analyzing data but,
so far, direction and management have been lacking to indicate
priorities. Re-assignment of duties has been initiated which
should assist in finalizing studies related to planning alter-
native structures for the system, determining physical require-
ments and formulating detailed syllabi especially at the lower
secondary level. Internal management of schools is often haphazard
and only partially effective with resultant inappropriate utili-
zation of staff and physical resources (para 1.14). Curricula and
syllabi are often developed and revised in isolation (para 1.13).
The proposed project would assist the government to achieve its
objectives by providing technical assistance to aid in the estab-
lishment of a curriculum development network and by initiating
courses within the teacher training institutes in school admin-
istration and supervision.
(vii) To strengthen management capabilities. Existing managerial
deficiencies have been further aggravated in the unsettled con-
ditions immediately following the revolution of 1974, by emi-
gration of many high level personnel, mainly to Brazil. An
urgent need exists, therefore, to develop a strong cadre of
trained managers as well as to provide opportunities for up-
grading the management skills of the more than 20,000 managers
in the public and private sectors. The proposed project would
assist the government in meeting these objectives, by extending
and strengthening the existing limited provision for management
training.
1.18      If the above measures are implemented, present imbalances should be
reduced and the quality of the education system should be improved. The gov-
ernment is aware that, by themselves, these measures are insufficient. The
Plan therefore also includes proposals for (i) improving and expanding the
adult literacy program; (ii) reviewing the television instruction program
(Telescola) for grades 5 and 6 and studying the need to use media to improve



-9-
the quality of schooling; (iii) reorganizing and expanding the curriculum
development activities within the system; (iv) establishing restricted en-
trance provisions for post-secondary institutions; (v) improving the physical
facilities in universities, especially in the sciences; and (vi) giving
increased attention to cultural, social and physical education activities
associated with schools. The Plan treats these and other proposals related
to each level of schooling only in general terms. In particular, insufficient
attention has been given to the training of adults who lack formal schooling
and this should be a fruitful avenue which the Bank could pursue.  Much more
detailed programs need to be developed, including estimates of cost and human
resource requirements, before an adequate assessment of the feasibility of the
above proposals can be made.  A bilateral agency is currently undertaking such
a study. The Bank could not consider financing adult education project items
until the findings of this study are available for analysis. In the meantime,
the government has indicated its firm intention of proceeding with the measures
outlined in the Plan to improve the quality of education and training. The
proposed project supports these measures in management training, teacher
training, technician and vocational training, and curriculum development
because they respond to an immediate and clearly identified need and are
independent of other proposed reform measures that require further investi-
gation and policy decisions.
Education Costs
1.19      Between 1970 and 1975, the central government's share of total gov-
ernment expenditure allocated to education increased gradually from about 11%
to about 18% and the proportion of GDP devoted to education increased from
2.0% to 4.4%, despite a five-fold increase in actual expenditure due largely
to the rapid expansion of enrollments and to the doubling of salaries for
teachers. These educational expenditures are within the range of expenditures
for other European countries (Annex 1, Table 1.4).
1.20      The recurrent costs of public education have increased steadily from
about Esc. 3.7 billion in 1972 to Esc. 12.2 billion or 17.5% in 1975 of the
total public recurrent expenditure. By level, primary and preparatory educa-
tion accounted for 52% in comparison to 43.2% in 1970 and 37.3% in 1973. The
increase was due both to the increase in numbers of teachers employed and to
emphasis on experimental television instruction for up to 50,000 preparatory
children unable to attend regular schools. Secondary education received 27.2%
of total recurrent expenditures in 1975 in comparison to about 30.5% in 1970
despite increases in enrollment. The share of recurrent expenditures devoted
to higher education has remained relatively stationary at 11.9% in 1970 and
13.1% in 1975.
1.21      From the data available, accurate forecasts of capital outlays by
type and level of education are not possible. In the six years, 1970-75, the
proportion of capital investments made by the Directorate of School Buildings
was 20% for primary education, 48% for preparatory and secondary education and
23% for higher education. However, capital expenditures on education as a
proportion of public capital expenses declined significantly from 20.4% in



- 10 -
1972 to 11.1% in 1974 in a period of political uncertainty. With six provi-
sional governments within the period 1974 to 1976 unable to plan or implement
policies regarding education investments, capital expenditures fell to only
5.6% of actual educational expenditures in 1975 (Annex 1, Table 1.5).
1.22      Private education is relatively insignificant in Portugal (para 1.09).
In 1975, the MEIC provided Esc. 166 million or only 1.2% of its budget for
private schools (Annex 1, Table 1.5). This low allocation, compared with 1.9%
in 1974, indicates that public subsidies for private schooling are declining.
The annual subsidy per student of about Esc. 6,000 in primary and Esc. 10,000
in secondary schools is comparable to the average cost per student in public
schools (Annex 1, Table 1.5). No data are available on actual expenditures
for private education, nor on the proportion of such schools which are reli-
gious or non-profit or fee paying.
1.23      The educational measures proposed in the 1977-80 Plan (para 1.17)
would require a recurrent expenditure on public education of Esc. 22.9 billion
(US$587 million) by 1985 in comparison to Esc. 12.2 billion (US$312 million)
in 1975. This projection averages about 6.4% more per annum in constant prices
(Annex 1, Table 1.5). The estimated annual capital costs for all levels of
education through 1985 would be approximately US$83 million on the basis of
projected enrollments assuming that a low rate of elimination of multiple
shifts and replacement of non-functional facilities was possible (Annex 1,
Table 1.8). Public capital and recurrent expenditures on education in 1985
would thus represent about 4.4% of GDP, assuming an average annual GDP growth
rate of 6% through 1985 as forecast in the Plan. This is above the 1975 level
but the government should be able to support such expenditure which is not
high by European standards.  If this GDP growth rate cannot be maintained,
educational investment expenditures may have to be decreased below the level
required to sustain the reform measures already identified (para 1.17). Great
importance is attached therefore to the planning studies now underway, or
to be initiated soon, which will concentrate on means to improve the cost-
effectiveness of education. In view of the priority being assigned by the
government to the development of the primary school system and the training
of the types of technicians to be assisted by the project, financing for the
project institutions is likely to be unaffected by any reduction in estimated
education expenditures which may be necessary.
The Bank's Role in the Education Sector
1.24      The proposed project is the Bank's first in the education and train-
ing sector in Portugal. From the initial contacts in August 1976, successive
missions have assisted the government in (i) the review of the education and
training system as a whole, (ii) the preparation of alternative planning
models which are now undergoing further refinements to provide rational bases
for policy decisions, and (iii) the identification of priority needs. Discus-
sions were also directed towards the urgent need to develop adult education
and skill re-training programs. However, as bilateral studies were being
prepared the government was not willing to consider Bank financing for these
priority items at this time. Subsequently, the government requested financing
for (i) pre-primary and primary pre-service teacher training and in-service



- 11 -
teacher training for all levels, (ii) technician training and vocational
training, (iii) curriculum development and teaching materials, (iv) construc-
tion of preparatory and secondary schools, (v) management training and
(vi) substantial technical assistance support for project institutions and to
initiate various studies.
1.25      Because the government had not yet decided how the structure of the
system is to be changed and basic decisions had yet to be taken on the curri-
cula for preparatory and secondary levels, it was concluded that investment in
preparatory and secondary school construction would be premature at this time.
The items remaining in the project would not be affected by the further
studies of the education system that are still taking place.
1.26      With public pre-school enrollments expected to rise from 4,000 in
1975 to 75,000 in 1985, additional accommodation is anticipated to require a
capital investment of over US$10 million (Annex 1, Table 1.8). Recurrent
costs, largely for the forecasted 3,000 teachers in public kindergartens would
reach about US$15 million by 1985. Such rapid expansion and large expendi-
tures do not appear to be warranted in view of other areas in the education
and training sector which could provide more immediate returns on investments
of this magnitude. Bank support of pre-primary teacher training as part of
the proposed project is therefore not justified at this time. Furthermore,
the government should be encouraged to curtail the anticipated pre-school
expansion in order to invest its scarce resources in higher priority fields
of adult training. The government has been informed, subsequent to appraisal
in the field, that the pre-primary teacher training components associated with
the other teacher training items, except at the University of Aveiro, have been
deleted from the proposed project.
1.27      The government, at the request of the Bank, has submitted a rational-
ization plan for teacher training through 1985. The plan, which is acceptable
to the Bank, provides for reducing the intake into primary teacher training
from 3,600 in 1975/76 to less than 2,000 in 1977/78 and about 1,400 by 1981/82.
The latter figure includes primary and preparatory trainees in accordance with
new government policy to combine these levels of schooling. This reduction in
intakes will necessitate the utilization for other purposes of six existing
primary teacher training institutes with the result that only one institute
will henceforth serve each geographic region. The plan also proposes more
equitable regional distribution of training and maximizes preservice and
in-service enrollments in those institutes retained. The plan provides
sufficient basis for replacing, in the present project, five of the least
suitable teacher training institutes.
1.28      The government's educational development strategy provides consider-
able scope for future assistance in line with the Bank's educational policies.
After key policy decisions have been made, the government is expected to re-
quest urgent Bank assistance for the construction of preparatory and second-
ary schools, of which some 200 are envisaged to commence construction before
1980 to meet the increases in anticipated enrollments at these levels. The
pre-investment studies on para-medical training and upgrading university
science, engineering and technology teaching have been included in the present



- 12 -
project with a view to their consideration for financing such items in the next
project. Following current studies, many facets of adult education, especially
the training of teachers of adults, basic education and literacy, skill
training, and community and health services catering to both the urban and
rural poor would be included in the second project.
II. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
2.01      The project is designed to assist the government to initiate or fur-
ther develop action in priority areas where manifest needs have been clearly
defined. The emphasis of the project is on institution-building and quality
improvement. New programs will be initiated in technician training, vocational
training and teacher training. More specifically the principal objectives are
to:
(i) introduce the concept of sub-professional, practically-
trained and oriented technician training to provide the type
of trained personnel required by (a) rapidly developing in-
dustrial complexes throughout the country, (b) the renewed
emphasis upon improvement of the food processing and food
production sub-sectors, and (c) middle level management
for the rapidly modernizing commerce-in dustry-service
sectors;
(ii) provide unemployed early school leavers in major urban areas
with the opportunity to acquire pre-apprentice skills training;
(iii) improve the quality and efficiency of schools at all levels
through upgrading and improving teacher training facilities
with emphasis on (a) developing a program for training
teachers of handicapped children, (b) introducing concurrent
teacher education programs within a new university with
emphasis on the training of preparatory and secondary
teachers, (c) providing facilites for full-time and ad hoc
courses of in-service training for teachers at all levels,
and (d) replacing existing primary teacher training insti-
tutes with fewer, new and appropriately equipped regional
teacher training institutes for primary and preparatory (basic
cycle) teachers; and
(iv) improve the quality and scope of management training.
2.02      The project would comprise (a) constructing and/or equipping the
following institutions; and (b) related technical assistance:



-13-
Capacity      Annual
Type of Institution                   Location   Grades Previous Propos-  output/b
ed/I
Technician Training (Post-Secondary)
1 New Industrial Institute and          Setubal   12-13   _        1545     645
1 New Industrial/Fish Processing/       Faro               -        585     245
Commercial Institute (construction,
furnishing & equipping)
2 Converted Food Processing & Produc- Coimbra   12-13   510         510     210
tion Institutes (minor construction,Santarem             450     450      180
furnishing and equipping)
3 Existing commercial institutes        Coimbra   12-13   500       500     200
(partial equipping only)             Lisbon             1200    1200      480
Porto             1200    1200      480
Vocational Training (Pre-Apprentice)
5 Existing Vocational Institutes        Alverca   n.a.      -        60      60
(partial equipping only)             Coimbra              -       60       60
Evora               -       60       60
Guarda              -      120      120
Rio Meao            -      120      120
Teacher Training (Post-Secondary)
1 Institute for Training Basic          Porto      12-14   740      630     360
Teachers & Teachers of Handicapped
Children (construction, furnish-
ing and equipping)
1 New Integrated Center for Teacher   Aveiro    12-16   470    1080         360
Training in the University of Aveiro
(new construction,furnishing & equipping)
5 Replacement Teacher Training          Faro       12-14   170      330     150
Institutes (construction, furnish-  Castello             340      330    150
ing and equipping)                      Branco
Braganza           300     330      150
Leiria             230     240      120
Viana da           270     330      150
Costelo
2 Existing Teacher Training             Vila Real 12-14   450       240     12D
Institutes (equipping only)           Beja               150      240    120
Management Training                       Lisbon    n.a      -      240    1200
2 New Management Training Institutes   Prn         n..a    -       160     800
(construction,furnishing and
equipping)
a/Full-time pre-service and in-service teacher training programs.
b/As courses in different progrars varv in length and enrollment, output is
not necessarily proportional to capacity.



- 14 -
Technician Training Institutes (Two-Year Post-Secondary)
2.03      In support of the government's policy for priority development of
post-secondary technician training (para 1.04), the project would provide
financing of (i) construction, furniture and equipment for two new institutes
with a combined enrollment of 2,130 in industrial and fish processing techno-
logies and middle management training; (ii) equipment and a small amount of
construction to convert two existing agricultural institutes to accommodate
a combined enrollment of 960 in food processing and food production; (iii)
supplemental equipment only for three existing commercial institutes serving
2,900; and (iv) related technical assistance for the new and converted insti-
tutes. The institutes would have a combined annual output of about 2,440
technicians by 1983 in the priority fields indicated below:
Technican Training Output by Field of Study
Annual                                      Annual
Field of Training               Output         Field of Training             Output
a.  Industrial Fields:                  c.  Food Processing Fields:
Electricity                 180          Fruits & Vegetables              75
Electronics                 120          Meat & Fish Products            105
Instrumentation &                        Milk Products                    60
Process Control           120          Wine Making                      60
Refrigeration & Air                                      Sub-Total       300
Conditioning              150
Design Drafting              120   d.  Food Production Fields:
Quality Control              45          Fruits & Vegetables              60
Civil Construction            15         Animal Products                  60
Sub-Total              750          Agric. Engineering               30
Sub-Total       150
b. Mid-Management, Commerce
& Tourism               1,240        Total Annual Output by 1983   2,440
2.04      The industrial technician training institute at Setubal, with an
enrollment of 1,545, would serve the rapidly growing South Lisbon-Setubal-
Sines industrial region with its heavy concentration of modern shipbuilding,
automotive assembly, steel, cement, oil refining, petrochemical and fertilizer,
power generation, electrical/electronics and other industries. The institute
at Faro, with an enrollment of 585, would serve the Southern Coastal Region
and its concentration of fish processing, tourism and related business and
industry. The Coimbra and Santarem agricultural institutes, with enrollments
of 510 and 450 respectively in food processing and production, are located
toward the opposite ends of the West Central Region where a major portion of
the fruits, vegetables and milk is produced and processed. The commercial
institutes are located in the major cities of Lisbon, Porto and Coimbra, with
enrollments of 1,200, 1,200 and 500 respectively, and would provide improved



- 15 -
training for a significant portion of the middle level management personnel
required for the rapidly modernizing commercial, industrial and service
sectors.
2.05      The location of these institutes in industrially, agriculturally
and commercially developed regions will facilitate development and maintenance
of close contacts with business and industry necessary to assure the relevance
of instructional programs and placement of graduates. In recognition of the
desirability of these contacts, the decree establishing these institutes pro-
vides for the creation of advisory committees in each consisting of representa-
tives of industry, commerce and local government.
2.06      To assure a proper balance of theory and practice, the students'
six-hour instructional day is about equally divided among general subjects,
technical theory and technical practice. Satisfactory curricula for the
commercial institutes will require only minor modifications to adapt to the
new two-year format and to the use of modern business machines. Curricula
and course syllabi for the food production courses have already been completed
and those for the food processing courses are being developed by existing
faculty with excellent cooperation from industry. Curricula for the indus-
trial technologies will be developed with the assistance of local industries
and with about three man-years of short-term specialist assistance (Annex 1,
Table 2.2).
2.07      To assist in continuing evaluation and to help assure the continuing
relevance of the training programs for industry through a systematic feedback
of information, the government has provided an assurance that a follow-up
system to trace graduate placement and job performance would be developed and
operational by the time the first class graduates.
2.08      The approximately 200 additional teachers required would be recruited
from among the existing oversupply of engineers and agricultural college grad-
uates, and from selected personnel from universities, industry and commerce on
a part-time basis. The government anticipates no problem in this respect as
salaries in post-secondary education are sufficiently competitive with busi-
ness and industry, flexible work rules permit and encourage part-time teaching
even during day classes, and post-secondary teaching positions are socially
esteemed.  The government has agreed that all full-time teachers in the indus-
trial and food processing technologies will intern for 6-12 weeks in those
industries most appropriate to their teaching fields, and more than ten major
firms have agreed to participate in this internship training. Consequently,
about nine man-years of short-term (1-4 months) fellowships abroad would
be required for 22 department heads and institutional directors in the indus-
trial and food processing institutes to visit appropriate training institutes
abroad.
Vocational Training
2.09      This project item would be part of the government's announced effort
to reduce unemployment among early school leavers (para 1.17) by extending
vocational training opportunities to them. The project would provide finan-
cing of supplemental equipment for a pilot program to provide broad basic



- 16 -
skills training for 15-16 year olds who have completed grade six and who are
too young to be eligible for admission into adult vocational training programs.
The five pilot training centers to be located in five major geographical re-
gions would have a combined annual output of 420. The government has provided
an assurance that an evaluation of these prototype programs will be carried
out by MEIC and the Office of Employment within one year following the pro-
duction of the first graduates. If such evaluation is favorable, extension of
the scheme throughout the country in these and other skill-training areas
could be considered. The ten months training programs would consist of basic
skills training in residential and light commercial electricity, welding and
light metal fabrication. woodworking, painting and plumbing. The objective
would be to prepare trainees for employment to assist in the physical plant
maintenance of commercial, industrial and public buildings, hotels and apart-
ments, and for the construction industry.
2.10      The 18 instructors required would come from the underutilized
present staff of the existing training centers in which the pilot programs
would operate, and the government has given an assurance that qualified indi-
viduals would be assigned sufficiently in advance of the opening date to
modify the existing adult syllabi and shopwork job sheets appropriately to the
new target group and to the shorter training period. One vocational teacher
training specialist would be required for a period of six months to provide
assistance in upgrading the curriculum and in providing instruction for
operating new equipment (Annex 1, Table 2.2).
Teachers of Handicapped Children
2.11      A teacher training institute for 360 primary and preparatory (basic
cycle) teacher trainees and 180 teachers of handicapped children in three year
and two year pre-service programs respectively would be constructed at Porto
and in close physical proximity to the hospital. Regular full-time one-year
in-service programs for 60 basic cycle teachers and 30 teachers of handicapped
children would also be provided. In addition, up to 90 teachers would be
accommodated in ad hoc in-service courses of one to five days duration (Annex
1, Table 2.1). It is anticipated that about 75% of the trainees will be
women. In the programs for teachers of handicapped children, specialized
training would be provided to teach children with learning difficulties, audio
and speech handicaps, visual disorders, mental deficiencies and motor and
physical handicaps. By incorporating such specialized programs within a
regular teacher training institute, economies in the use of classrooms and
communal facilities will be realized (Annex 1, Table 3.2). Porto has been
selected as the location for this type of training because the northern
regions have a greater concentration of population and a higher incidence
of handicapped childern, more specialized medical facilities and existing
special schools for practice teaching and observation.
2.12      The institute would be well-equipped with a library, a learning
media resources center and a workshop. These facilites would provide mate-
rials and equipment for teachers to become skillful in the use of simple
tools, to learn how to operate effectively a wide range of audio-visual
equipment and to prepare and reproduce a large variety of instructional aids



- 17 -
and materials. The institute would also be equipped with a model science
laboratory, an amphitheater, an arts and crafts workshop, a music room and an
observation classroom equipped with television monitors for use in small group
teaching techniques; none of these facilities exist in present teacher train-
ing institutes. A further innovation is the provision of a mobile van fully
equipped as an instructional resource unit, which would make monthly visits to
schools in the region. The materials in the institute would be available for
teachers in the region to prepare their own instructional aids.
2.13      Curricula for these training programs for teachers of handicapped
children are being reviewed bv bilaterallv financed specialists who are also
developing appropriate specialized equipment lists which were substantially
prepared by the time of negotiations. In addition, one expert in remedial
teaching methods would be required for about six months to develop a syllabus
and to train up to ten teacher trainers in an intensive summer course.
Fellowships for two basic cycle teacher trainers (12 months each), two audio-
visual trainers (six months each), six trainers in special handicaps (15
months each) and four trainers in remedial methods (12 months each) would
be available. The director of the institute and up to five administrators
in special education, including the deputy director of the institute, would
visit institutions abroad for about three months each. The total technical
assistance required for special education would be two man-years of specialist
services and about 13 man-years of fellowships (Annex 1, Tables 2.2 and 2.3).
2.14      Due to the sDecialized nature of the training in special education,
the government has provided an assurance that about 16 suitably experienced
teachers of handicapped children would be selected to staff this program at
the institute. The recruitment and selection of the remaining 34 teachers
for the basic cycle training program is not expected to be difficult in view of
the present academic qualifications of staff in existing training institutes.
Integrated Center for Teacher Training
2.15      The Integrated Center for Teacher Training at the newly established
University of Aveiro would train nearly 180 pre-primary, primary and prepara-
tory, 750 secondary general and 60 secondary technical pre-service trainees.
In addition, inservice training would be offered to 90 teachers on a full-time
basis for one year and about 3,000 teachers in ad hoc courses of varying
duration. The university would initiate experimental and pilot pre-service
programs in teacher training for (i) a common experimental course covering the
grade 1-6 curriculum for trainees who would be appointed to either primary
(grades 1-4) or preparatory (grades 5-6) schools rather than undertake the
previously differentiated and subject-specialized training (estagio) provided
for the latter; (ii) secondary general teachers in a five-year program of
concurrent academic and pedagogical studies combined with practice teaching;
and (iii) secondary general, commercial and technical teachers, who have
completed their discipline and skill training and obtained a degree in other
post-secondary institutions, in a one-year pedagogical course. For the first
time in Portugal, the University would initiate full-time one-year in-service
training courses for (i) about 60 qualified practicing teachers, many of whom



- 18 -
are likely to be women, to be re-trained for other educational functions --
administrators, supervisors, audio-visual aids specialists, diagnosticians,
adult education specialists and remedial education teachers; and (ii) about
30 qualified primary teachers who wish to be re-trained to become teachers
of mathematics and science in secondary schools (Annex 1, Table 2.1).
2.16      Curricula for each of these programs are in various stages of
preparation following agreement with the University and MEIC officials on
the new outlines and time allocations for each course. The proportion of
time devoted to pedagogical studies, including block teaching practice, would
average about 35% annually in the three-year courses and 25% annually in the
five-year courses and is considered to be adequate. As the University of
Aveiro was only established in 1974, and is still expanding, the government
has submitted a master plan, acceptable to the Bank, indicating projected
enrollments, disciplines of study and tentative physical layout. Individual
courses would be phased into operation as university staffing and accommodation
become available during the next three years; in 1977, about 200 practicing
teachers from neighboring schools were attending selected courses in psychology
and methodology at the university and this level of enrollment can be main-
tained, although full programs are not expected to commence until the scheduled
completion of construction in 1981. By 1980, however, students in the existing
teacher training institute in Aveiro, located in unsuitable and obsolete
rented buildings, would begin transferring to the University.
2.17      The Integrated Center for Teacher Training would be equipped with a
range of materials similar to those for the Porto teacher training institute
(para 2.12). In addition, a model office and secretarial laboratory and a
model industrial technologies demonstration laboratory would be provided for
training secondary commercial and technical teachers. Boarding accommodation
for about 185 students and teaching personnel and five staff houses would be
built for the University. As the programs emphasize the outreach functions of
the University to the schools, stress would be placed on the media resource
center, the workshops and laboratories and on the mobile instructional aids
van which will visit all schools in the region. By 1985, when the programs
will have been firmly established, the government is expected to evaluate each
program. To emphasize the importance which the Bank attaches to this evalu-
ation and to help ensure that the programs will, in fact, be evaluated, the
government has provided an assurance that all such programs will be evaluated
by 1985 and the results forwarded to the Bank.
2.18      The Integrated Center would require about 55 academically well-
qualified staff when it is fully operational by about 1985. Experienced
teachers are expected to be available by that time and to have undertaken
a one-year post-graduate pedagogical training course which is due to be
established shortly. Initially, about ten staff would undertake advanced
studies abroad in teacher training. In order that the programs at the
Integrated Center should be innovative in methodology as well as in type and
structure, three specialists for 12 months each are proposed to work with
University administrators and staff to prepare organizational and adminis-
trative details, to develop pre-service syllabi and in-service courses and to
assist in teaching as required. Such specialists should have a working



- 19 -
knowledge of Portuguese or French as well as being fully conversant with
modern developments in teacher education. Up to six directors and heads of
departments would be encouraged to visit other institutions abroad for about
three months each. The total technical assistance for this component would be
three man-years of specialist services and about 26 man-years of staff training
and visits abroad (Annex 1, Tables 2.2 and 2.3).
Basic Cycle Teacher Training
2.19      In response to the government's immediate policy priority for im-
proving the quality and upgrading the level of basic cycle teacher training,
the project would provide financing for (i) replacement of five existing
institutes and (ii) equipment only for two others. The institutes would be
distributed in seven geographical regions replacing unsuitable and obsolete
buildings. All institutes would also provide regular and ad hoc courses
of in-service training. Total enrollments in the seven institutions would
be 1,620 basic cycle trainees in pre-service courses, 420 basic cycle teachers
in full-time in-service programs and about 11,700 teachers from all levels in
short ad hoc in-service courses (Annex 1, Table 2.1). The capacity of the
institutes varies from 240 to 330 places depending on location and is con-
sidered adequate to meet the needs of each region.
2.20      New curricula upgraded to post-secondary level would be introduced
in all project institutions. All pre-service programs would be of three
years' duration; regular full-time in-service programs would be for up to
one year and ad hoc in-service courses would average about one week. All
programs would provide a balance among pedagogy, practice teaching and subject
content in each year. This differs from present training practices which
emphasize subject content, offer a limited range of subjects and delay prac-
tice teaching until the final year of the program. The time-schedule and
outline curricula for these new programs have been agreed with the MEIC and
the details are expected to be completed by September 1978. Preliminary
equipment lists reflecting this outline were substantially prepared by
the time of negotiations. The physical facilities would be similar to those
previously described (para 2.12).
2.21      No opportunities currently exist in Portugal for the preparation of
teacher trainers. An immediate and essential need is the provision of short
summer introductory courses in pedagogy, methodology and child psychology for
the 200 staff members of the institutions to be replaced or equipped under the
project. The first course is scheduled to commence in July 1978 and would be
repeated later for staff in the remaining teacher training institutions. For
this purpose at least two specialists will be required for about three months
each to assist experienced Portuguese teacher trainers to plan and deliver the
course. To consolidate this initial training effort and to plan for the
establishment of a full-time post-graduate teacher education program within a
university yet to be selected, one teacher educator specialist would be
required for about 12 months (para 2.18). For the project institutions, a
team of about five specialists would be required for a total of 48 months to
assist in planning, organization and detailed syllabi preparation of both pre-
service and in-service programs. In view of the lack of pedagogical training,



- 20 -
up to ten trainers would be awarded fellowships abroad to study teaching
methods at the grade 1-6 level. Another ten instructors in audio-visual teach-
ing techniques would be awarded fellowships of about three months duration.
In addition, short-term (2-3 months) study tours for up to 12 institutes'
directors and deputy directors and about four MEIC administrators would permit
observation of modern teacher training operations abroad. The total technical
assistance provision for the basic cycle teacher training institutes (including
Porto) would be about 5-1/2 man-years of specialist services and 9 man-years
of fellowships or study tours abroad (Annex 1, Tables 2.2 and 2.3).
Management Training Centers
2.22      The Ministry of Industry and Technology (MIT) has conducted manage-
ment training courses since 1960 aimed mainly at senior staff in the larger
enterprises, with training conducted in such limited space as was available
in the MIT offices, in the enterprises themselves or in hotels. However, the
lack of purpose-built facilities and the limited availability of qualified
staff have severely constrained the scope and quality of such training. This
project item is designed to address these deficiencies. The proposed new
centers, located in the country's two main industrial/commercial areas of
Lisbon/Setubal and Porto, would extend the scope of training to include senior
management, middle (function) management--production, financial, purchasing,
sales, etc.--as well as supervisors/foremen. They would also initiate
management training for small and medium sized businesses, complementing the
work of the Institute for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises. As
part of their outreach activities, the centers would extend inplant training
in the larger enterprises as well as provide short courses in the larger
regional centers.
2.23      The training in most cases would be provided in increments of about
one week, with a total course duration of about 2 to 12 weeks depending on
the nature of the courses. The need for management training is ongoing, how-
ever, so that participants would be expected to repeat their training, or
enter into new fields of training, at regular intervals. The two centers
between them would be in a position to offer up to 13 programs simultaneously
and it is anticipated that by 1981, when the new facilities would be avail-
able, about 2,000 trainees annually would participate in in-center training.
A small residential unit, with accommodation for 40, would be provided at
Porto; residential accommodation was not considered necessary for Lisbon in
view of the ready availability of suitable hotel accommodation there.
2.24      The project concentrates heavily on backstopping staffing and
developing the staffing capabilities of the centers in the period to 1981.
About 140 man/months of specialists services are proposed to assist in
(i) developing programs, including case studies, and teaching methodologies;
(ii) initiating training in new fields preparatory to their introduction in
the proposed centers; and (iii) developing programs for and training trainers.
Arrangements for such services would be made on an institutional basis with
management training institutions abroad. It is estimated that about 40 full-
time staff will be required for the two centers, with additional staffing



- 21 -
required for the outreach activities. Much of the training for the latter
staff will take place in the centers through "tele-training"--concentrated
training in audio-visual aids and in the use of training materials supplied
by the centers. Other staff training needs would be met through a proposed
program of 55 fellowships, with training ranging in duration from three
months to two years, the latter for a limited cadre of senior staff.
2.25      Training would also be provided at the centers to equip the staff
of the MIT for their responsibilities within a new organizational framework
with expanded functions being developed for that ministry. A new structure
for the Training Institute of the MIT is also being developed and the centers
will form part of that structure. The government has provided an assurance
that proposals for such structure and administrative procedures for the
Institute would be submitted for Bank comments not later than December 31,
1978. Such proposals should provide for: (i) the establishment of a con-
sultative commission, which shall include, inter alia, the directors of the
management training units as well as representatives of public and private
enterprises and shall advise, on an ongoing basis, on management training
needs; (ii) the establishment of a system to evaluate the effectiveness of
training programs; (iii) a wide measure of autonomy to the management training
units in the development of training programs, within overall guidelines to
be established by the consultative commission; and (iv) the provision of
an operating budget to the centers based on the anticipated annual costs of
the planned programs (including annual maintenance and replacement costs for
buildings, furniture and equipment).
Studies
2.26      As there is no formal education of para-medical technicians in
Portugal, the government has requested a feasibility study on the construc-
tion, furnishing and equipping of a para-medical training institute possibly
to be located in Porto. The study would investigate the demand for training
in speech therapy, optometry, audiometry and orthoptics and prepare prelim-
inary training programs and identify physical facility needs in order to allow
the government to proceed with the preparation of architectural designs and
cost estimates. Specialist services for up to 18 months in para-medical tech-
nician training and manpower would be required under the proposed loan to
assist government medical advisors in carrying out the feasibility study.
2.27      A second feasibility study would be undertaken to upgrade the
teaching of science, engineering and technology in universities. At present,
student enrollments in science are low, teaching methods are traditional
lectures and laboratories and practical equipment are almost non-existent in
most universities. The study would investigate the specific subject fields in
need of upgrading in terms of curricula content, equipment, laboratory space
and staff training in each university. Appropriate standards of accommodation
and lists of equipment and furniture would be prepared in the light of fore-
casted enrollments. Specialist services for up to 36 man-months would be
required to initiate the study in collaboration with Ministry of Education and
university personnel.



- 22 -
2.28      A study will be undertaken by the government to determine the major
manpower planning requirements through 1990 and to assess the current and
planned sources and the amount of manpower available. Such a study would be
initiated not later than December 1, 1978 and would require up to 18 man-months
of specialists services to assist the Ministry of Planning to conduct such a
major manpower review (para. 1.17, iii). The study would draw together data
available from various ministries relating to employment opportunities and
current manpower used in various establishments as a basis for the review of
the education and training requirements particularly relating to adult edu-
cation and basic skills training. The findings of the study, together with
the plans for improving adult education and basic skills training, would be
made available to the Bank for comment by November 30, 1979.
Curriculum Development
2.29      The government has also requested assistance in establishing a
national curriculum development scheme. In view of the imminent changes in
the structure of the education system and of the importance of ensuring qual-
ity in every level of schooling, curriculum development is a crucial element
in the further development of education and training. Ministry officials
have already prepared a sound framework for the establishment of the scheme;
however, the present curriculum development capability requires reinforcing.
Closer operational association with and utilization of the project's teacher
training resource centers are intended. Technical assistance would be pro-
vided in the form of about 12 short-term consultancies (1-2 months each) and
training visits for up to 24 department heads and directors (2-6 months each)
to institutions abroad where advanced work is being performed in curriculum
project design, development and operation; curriculum evaluation; graphics
and media production; and management, planning and organization (Annex 1,
Tables 2.2 and 2.3).
Technical Assistance
2.30      A substantial technical assistance component has been included in
the above project items in order to achieve the project's primary objective
of institution-building. In the present state of transition, considerable
impetus and direction are possible through well-coordinated technical assis-
tance in areas of priority need. In total, about 72 specialists are proposed
for 33 man-years and 190 fellowships for about 113 man-years. Estimated costs
of technical assistance have been based on $6,250 per man-month for specialist
services and $1,200 per man-month for fellowships. A schedule has been agreed
tentatively with the government (Annex 1, Table 2.2) and the recruitment of
specialists and arrangements for training are being discussed with bilateral
agencies. Of the estimated total cost of technical assistance (about $4.1
million), bilateral sources are likely to provide about $700,000.
2.31      In order to ensure that the project components will operate effec-
tively with trained personnel, the government is actively seeking specialist
services to (i) review curricula and prepare equipment lists for the training
of teachers; (ii) prepare and assist in teaching a summer course (July-
September 1978) for the training of teacher trainers for the primary teacher



- 23 -
training institutes; (iii) advise on training instructors in the five vocational
centers prior to their opening; and (iv) assist with the general organization
and implementation of all teacher education programs as soon as possible. The
government has provided assurances that (i) arrangements for contracting
specialist services and the fellowship training program will be substantially
completed in accordance with the proposed technical assistance schedule no
later than October 31, 1978; and (ii) recruitment, selection and training of
appropriate numbers of experienced and qualified staff for each of the proposed
project institutions will be completed at least three months prior to the
commencement of operations in those institutions (paras 2.08, 2.10, 2.14,
2.18, 2.21, 2.24 and Annex 1, Table 2.3).



- 24 -
III. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost of the Project
3.01        The estimated total cost and foreign exchange of the project items
are summarized below:
X of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Baseline
--Escudos Millions---    ----US$Million------   Cost
Technician Training:
Construction, furnishing & equipping
2 new institutes                    245.3   229.8   484.1       6.5      5.9    12.4
Equipping & minor construction
2 existing institutes                14.9    83.9    98.8       0.4      2.1     2.5
Reequipping
3 existing commercial institutes    1.0        9.1    10.1      0.1      0.2     0.3
Subtotal    270.2   322.8   593.0       7.0      8.2    15.2       44.0
Vocational Training:
Equipping of basic training workshops
5 existing vocational training
centers                               1.2    10.3    11.5       0.0      0.3     0.3        0.9
Teacher Training:
Construction, furnishing & equipping
1 replacement institute              54.8    25.3    80.1       1.4     0.7      2.1
1 new integrated teacher training
center                             81.9    33.4   115.3       2.1     0.9      3.0
Construction, furnishing & equipping
5 replacement institutes            189.8    76.2   266.0       4.9      1.9     6.8
Equipping
2 existing institutes                 2.2       6.5     8.7     0.0     0.2      0.2
Subtotal   382.7   141.4   470.1       8.4      3.7    12.1       34.9
Management Centers:
Construction, Furnishing & equipping
2 new centers                        68.9    44.8   113.7       1.8     1.1      2.9       8.4
Technical Assistance:
Studies                                  3.5    14.1    17.6       0.1     0.4  j 0.5
Specialists & fellowships               28.4   113.7   142.1        .7 '   2.9      3.6
Subtotal    31.9   127.8   159.2   0-. 8       3.3      4.1       11.8
Baseline cost         700.9   647.1 1,348.0    18.0    16.6    34.6        100.0
Contingencies:
Physical unforeseen                    68.5    58.3   126.8       1.8     1.5      3.3
Price increase                        252.0   139.7   391.7       6.4     3.6    10.0
Subtotal   320.5   198.0   518.5       8.2     5.1    13.3       38.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  1,021.4   845.1 1,866.5    26.2    21.7    47.9



- 25 -
3.02      Project costs by category of expenditure are shown below:
% of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Baseline
---Escudos Millions--  ----US$ Millions-----    Cost
Construction:
Academic and communal
facilities           416.5   176.5   593.0   10.7        4.5    15.2
Boarding                  20.5      7.3    27.8    0.5       0.2     0.7
Staff housing             19.2      7.2    26.4    0.5       0.2     0.7
Site development          88.0    36.9   124.9    2.3       0.9      3.2
Consultant architects'
fees                  48.2      5.3    53.5    1.2       0.2      1.4
Subtotal           592.4   233.2   825.6   15.2        6.0    21.2    61.3
Furniture:                  41.6    17.8    59.4    1.1        0.4      1.5
Equipment:                  35.0   268.3   303.3    0.9        6.9      7.8
Subtotal            76.6   286.1   362.7    2.0        7.3      9.3    26.9
Technical assistance:
Feasibility studies        3.5    14.1    17.6    0.1        0.4     0.5
Specialists,
fellowships            28.4   113.7   142.1    0.7        2.9      3.6
Subtotal            31.9   127.8   159.7    0.8        3.3      4.1    11.8
Baseline cost              700.9   647.1 1,348.0   18.0    16.6    34.6   100.0
Contingencies:
Physical unforeseen       68.5   58.3    126.8    1.8        1.5     3.3      9.4
Price escalation         252.0  139.7    391.7    6.4        3.6    10.0    29.1
Subtotal           320.5  198.0    518.5    8.2        5.1    13.3    38.5
Total project cost       1,021.4  845.1  1,866.5   26.2    21.7    47.9
Rate of exchange:  US$1.00 = 39 escudos
3.03      The project cost, net of duties and taxes, includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical conditions equal to 10% of the estimated
baseline costs of civil works, furniture and equipment and 5% of technical
assistance. Prices are expected to increase during the project implementation
period by a weighted total of about 33% for civil works, 13% for architects'
fees, 28% for furniture, 21% for equipment and 10% for technical assistance.
Overall price contingencies are therefore estimated at about 29% of baseline
costs.



- 26 -
3.04      The cost estimates of civil works are based on recently awarded
contracts for similar projects by the Ministries of Public Works and Educa-
tion.  It is expected that foreign contracting firms would be interested to
participate in the bidding for the two largest institutions (technician insti-
tutes at Setubal and Faro), representing about 41% of the total estimated
construction costs of the project. The local construction industry is
well developed and is expected to compete for all project items. In estimat-
ing the foreign exchange cost, it has been assumed that 100% of the furniture
would be awarded to local manufacturers. Furniture manufacturing in Portugal
is well developed and is expected to meet the needs of the project in terms of
quality, quantity and competition in international bidding. On the other
hand, it was estimated that with the exception of about 25% of equipment for
teacher training, the remainder would be awarded to suppliers of foreign
manufactured goods. Equipment and furniture cost estimates are based on
reasonable CIF prices and recent costs of actual contracts for each category
of goods.
3.05      The estimated foreign exchange component of about US$21.7 million,
representing about 45% of total project cost, is based on the above assump-
tions and was calculated as follows: (i) civil works 29%; (ii) architects'
fees 10%; (iii) furniture 30%; (iv) equipment 75% for basic cycle teacher
training and 90% for all other institutions; and (v) technical assistance
80%.
3.06      When the project is fully operational, the annual recurrent costs
to MEIC of the project institutions would be about Esc. 273 million, equiva-
lent to about US$7 million or about 1% of the projected public recurrent
expenditure for education by 1985. Recurrent costs of about US$1 million for
the management training centers, not included above, will be assumed by MIT.
Unit capital costs and areas per student place compare satisfactorily with
those for similar institutions in recent Bank projects (Annex 1, Table 3.2).
The government has assigned high priority in its educational development plans
to all project items.
Financial Plan
3.07      The proposed loan of US$21.0 million would finance 97% of the esti-
mated total foreign exchange; the remaining 3% will be financed by bilateral
sources. The distribution by category of expenditure would be as follows:



- 27 -
Financial Plan by Category of Expenditure
(in US$ Million)
Government     Bilateral         Bank       Total
Amount     %   Amount    %   Amount   %    Amount
Civil works                    14.0     71    0.0       0    5.8    29       19.8
Furniture                       1.1     70    0.0       0    0.4    30        1.5
Equipment                       0.9     11    0.0       0    6.9    89        7.8
Consultants architects' fees  1.2       90    0.0       0    0.2    10        1.4
Technical assistance            0.8     20    0.7      17    2.6    63        4.1
Baseline cost                  18.0     52    0.7       2   15.9    46      34.6
Contingencies:
Physical unforeseen            1.8     55    0.0       0    1.5    45       3.3
Price increase                6.4      64    0.0       0    3.6    36      10.0
Subtotal                    8.2      62    0.0       0    5.1    38      13.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST             26.2     55    0.7       1   21.0    44      47.9
Implementation
3.08      A key factor in successful implementation and operation would be the
timely selection, training and appointment of staff to each of the project
institutions, to working and advisory groups and to key positions within the
project implementation organization. As indicated above (paras 2.08, 2.10,
2.14, 2.18, 2.21 and 2.24), the government has agreed to the adequate staffing
of project institutions and, given the current abundant supply of staff, no
undue difficulties in quantitative terms are anticipated. Furthermore, the
willingness of the government to proceed immediately with arranging technical
assistance details indicates that candidates for training abroad will be
selected in sufficient time to be available prior to the completion of con-
struction.  Agreement has also been reached on the nature and timing of
training to be conducted in Portugal. The interest of several bilateral
agencies in the recruitment and financing of specialists and in the arranging
of training programs increases the probability that the software components
will be handled effectively.
3.09      For project implementation of all project items other than the manage-
ment training centers, a full-time project coordinator and a deputy coordinator
acceptable to the Bank have been appointed to the Directorate of Higher
Education within the Ministry of Education. They worked with the appraisal
mission and will be responsible for the overall progress in implementation and
for liaison with the Bank. The coordinator will oversee the execution of the
project by a working group already established under terms and conditions
agreeable to the Bank and composed of educators, architects and engineers from



- 28 -
the Ministry of Education and from the General Directorate of School Construc-
tion of the Ministry of Public Works. In addition, the coordinator or the
deputy coordinator will work closely with the designated officers in the
Ministry of Finance and Planning (manpower planning study), the Ministry of
Industry and Technology (management training centers), and the Office of
Employment (vocational training). The government has provided an assurance
that either the coordinator or the deputy coordinator will devote full-time
to the project.
3.10      An implementation team, consisting of three engineers and supporting
staff, in the Training Institute of the Ministry of Industry and Technology,
will be responsible for implementation of the management training centers.
They will work in close coordination with the project team in the Ministry of
Education who will advise them on civil works procurement and undertake pro-
curement of furniture and equipment on their behalf.
3.11      Project items for similar educational programs will be grouped to-
gether and assigned to a limited number of local consultant architects. The
short list of prequalified architects has been accepted by the Bank and
architects appointed for Ministry of Education project items. The appointment
of suitable architects for the management training centers is a condition of
Loan effectiveness. Preliminary sketches and design development will be sub-
mitted to the Bank for review and approval.
3.12      Site selection and acquisition have commenced.  The government has
acquired either legal title to suitable sites for all project institutions of
the MEIC or legal access to such sites for the purposes of topographic and
soil surveys, with assurance that legal titles will be obtained not later than
the scheduled commencement of site preparation. Suitable sites for the manage-
ment training centers have been identified; confirmation by the government that
action has been taken to acquire suitable sites is a condition of Loan dis-
bursement.
3.13      The government has prepared educational and architectural briefs for
construction of new institutions, for additions and modifications to existing
institutions, and preliminary equipment lists for existing institutions.
Design work is expected to commence in March 1978. Construction contracts are
scheduled to be awarded before September 1979 with completion of civil works
anticipated by early 1981, except for the largest and most complicated item
(the Technician Training Institute of Setubal) which would be completed by mid-
1981. Installation of equipment and furniture is scheduled to be completed
within four months following the termination of construction (Annex 1, Table
3.3). The entire project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1981
with a Closing Date of December 31, 1981 to allow for final disbursements to
be made and all accounts closed.
Procurement
3.14      Civil works contracts (amounting to US$28.9 million including contin-
gencies) would be awarded, on the basis of international competitive bidding
except for the project items estimated to cost less than US$1.5 million equiva-
lent each and subject to prior Bank approval.   This limited construction
would be awarded under normal government procedures which are satisfactory to
the Bank and do not exclude foreign bidders. It is expected that most if not
all contracts would be awarded to Portuguese firms (para 3.04).



- 29 -
3.15      Detailed lists and specifications of furniture and equipment would
be presented to the Bank for review and approval prior to procurement. Equip-
ment and furniture items (amounting to US$12.6 million including contingencies)
would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large packages to permit bulk
procurement. Contracts for equipment (amounting to US$10.4 million) would be
awarded under international competitive bidding, except for contracts esti-
mated to cost less than US$50,000, inexpensive items which must be compatible
with other equipment procured under ICB and items of such specialized nature
that ICB would not be practical. These items, which would not exceed an aggre-
gate total of US$1.8 million equivalent, representing about 17% of the total
cost of equipment, would be procured under normal government procurement proce-
dures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, and would include, to the extent
feasible, price quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. The
capacity and quality of the local furniture industry is satisfactory. Because
of the small amount (US$2.2 million) of furniture in the project, furniture
would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures which do not
exclude foreign bidders or for limited quantities, through price quotations
for off-the-shelf purchases after at least three price quotations have been
obtained. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB,
local manufacturers of equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal
to the existing rate of custom duties applicable to competing imports or 15%
of CIF price, whichever is lower.
Disbursements
3.16      Disbursements would be made on the basis of:
(i)  30% of total expenditures for civil works;
(ii)  for items of equipment, (a) 100% of foreign expenditure for
imported equipment, (b) 100% of ex-factory price of locally
manufactured equipment, and (c) 80% of total expenditure for
locally procured imported equipment;
(iii)  for items of furniture, (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for
imported furniture, (b) 30% of total expenditure for locally
manufactured furniture, and (c) 85% of total expenditure for
locally procured imported furniture; and
(iv) 80% of total expenditures for technical assistance.
These percentages would be adjusted as necessary to distribute disbursements
over the implementation period. Undisbursed funds, if any, would be available
for further development of the project in accordance with a program agreeable
to the Bank.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01      The project would provide the economy with skilled managers and high-
level, practically-oriented technicians who would be increasingly required in



- 30 -
the early 1980's, particularly in the light of Portugal's application for
membership in the EEC. In addition, the project would be instrumental in
improving the quality and cost-effectiveness of education through providing
modern, well-equipped training facilities for teachers, technicians and
unemployed youths. However, the benefit of the project should not be measured
solely in terms of the 420 youths, 2,440 technicians, 210 secondary school and
690 basic cycle teachers, 90 teachers for handicapped children or 2,000
management personnel who are expected to graduate annually from project
institutions. The planning and studies which are now underway and which were
started as a result of discussions with Bank staff during early reconnaissance
visits extend to the basic elements of the system and encompass such topics as
the optimum structure of the system, the most appropriate locations for new
and replacement schools at all levels, the rationalization of teacher training
for all levels of schooling, the provisions for adult literacy and training
and a re-assessment of the role of media in instruction (para 1.18).
4.02      The more substantial and immediate benefits of the project lie in
its support of the institution-building efforts of progressive Portuguese
planners and educators especially in developing a more effective system of
management training extending to all management supervisory levels, in ini-
tiating a new system of technician training, in reorganizing and building-up a
comprehensive curriculum development network, in re-structuring the adminis-
tration of teacher training, and in re-vitalizing the planning activities of
MEIC. The project itself and the advice offered by Bank staff in each mission
have stimulated a continuing dialogue on the purposes of the education and
training system, the roles of individuals and groups, the need to develop
alternative plans and well prepared projects, and the definition of satis-
factory and economical norms and standards. As the Bank's first project in
this sector, the continued close collaboration is likely to have substantial
influence on the changing patterns of education and training. This is already
evident in the major policy decisions made in relation to (i) the establishment
of technician training institutes, (ii) the restriction of university enroll-
ments, (iii) the establishment of new vocational programs, (iv) the upgrading
of pre-primary and primary teacher training to post-secondary level, (v) the
conference and report on the establishment of a coordinated curriculum devel-
opment network, and (vi) the review of the planning activities and functions
of MEIC and of the structure of the education system.
4.03      Specifically, the main benefits of the project are expected to be:
(i)  improving the quality of training through the provision of
badly needed buildings, furniture and equipment for the
upgraded preparation of teachers and technicians;
(ii)  introducing new programs for training practically-oriented
technicians required by the developing economy (paras 2.03
to 2.07);
(iii)  introducing new pilot programs in skills training for 15-16
year old school leavers in major urban areas (para 2.09);



- 31 -
(iv)  introducing a new program of specialized teacher training
for teachers of handicapped children (paras 2.11 to 2.13);
(v) establishing a new Integrated Center for Teacher Training
in the University of Aveiro to offer experimental and con-
current programs of training for pre-primary, primary,
preparatory and secondary teachers (paras 2.15 to 2.17);
(vi)  establishing upgraded three-year programs of pre-service
teacher training for basic cycle teachers and in-service
training programs for teachers at all levels of schooling
(paras 2.19 to 2.21);
(vii) establishing quality training programs for managers and
supervisors in purpose-built facilities (paras 2.23 and
2.24); and
(viii) consolidating institution-building (technician training, teacher
training, management training and educational planning) and
curriculum development capabilities through technical assistance
support for the project institutions (paras 2.30 to 2.31).
4.04      The project is subject to many of the risks inherent in a first
project in any country.  The Portuguese, however, are demonstrating a willing-
ness and ability to overcome immediate difficulties.  A working group under
the direction of the project coordinator and deputy coordinator has already
been appointed (para 3.09).  Similarly, satisfactory implementation machinery
has been established for the management training centers (para 3.10).  Bi-
lateral technical assistance teams have arrived in Portugal to review curricula
outlines and prepare preliminary equipment lists for teacher training and food
technology courses (paras 2.06, 2.13 and 2.20). Progress in other implemen-
tation areas is proceeding satisfactorily (para 3.12). Nevertheless, lack of
familiarity by the working group with Bank procedures may result in some
initial delays in project execution. Accordingly, timely provision of tech-
nical assistance and continuous follow-up by Bank staff will be required
during the early stages of the project.
4.05      A further risk was that enrollments in engineering faculties would
not be curtailed sufficiently to ensure appropriate job opportunities for
graduates of the technician training institutes. However, recently the
government severely restricted enrollments in engineering (para 1.17, iii)
as well as in other university faculties. In view of the government's
assurance that this policy of restricted enrollments would be continued in
order to control the supply of engineers, it is considered that such a risk
is now minimal.
4.06      In view of the extent of the proposed support for program develop-
ment and training of trainers which is included under technical assistance,
no undue difficulty in the effective operation of the management training



- 32 -
centers is anticipated. However, special efforts will be necessary to attract
management personnel from small and medium sized businesses into training.
The government proposes to give special emphasis to such training as part of
an overall priority program of assistance towards the development of smaller
enterprises in the private sector.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations aereement was reached on the following principal
points:
(i) a follow-up system to trace graduate placement and job
performance would be developed and operational by the time
the first class graduates from the technician training
institutes (para 2.07);
(ii) an evaluation of the prototype programs in the vocational
training centers would be carried out by MEIC and the Office
of Employment within one year following the production of
the first graduates (para 2.09);
(iii) an evaluation of the programs of the Integrated Center for
Teacher Training at the University of Aveiro will be carried
out by 1985 and the results forwarded to the Bank (para 2.17);
(iv) proposals for a new structure and administrative procedures for
the Training Institute of the Ministry of Industry and Technology
would be submitted for Bank comments not later than December 31,
1978 (para 2.25);
(v) by December 1, 1978, a study would be initiated to determine
Portugal's needs for trained manpower of all types and levels
of specialization uf) to 1990 and to assess the current and
planned sources and amounts of such manpower to be produced
within this period. The findings of the study would be made
available to the Bank by November 30, 1979 (para 1.17 iii).
5.02      A condition of Loan effectiveness would be the provision of
evidence that suitable architects have been appointed for the management
training centers (para 3.11).
5.03      A condition of Loan disbursement for the management training com-
ponent only would be that action satisfactory to the Bank has been taken to
acquire suitable sites for the management training centers (para 3.12).
5.04      The project is suitable as a basis for a Loan of US$21.0 million to
the Republic of Portugal.



ANNEX 1
Chart 1
PORTUGAL
DEVELOPING STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL SCHOOL SYSTEM, 1976-77
'1   2           ~~~~Basic                              17Secondary                                                                  lligher
1         2         3        4 c a              6       i      7         a        9   t     0   1    HiI, 
Compulurv
Fine Arts Progmms
Viwual Artl Schools
Agricultural Schools a Institutes
Commercia S chools
Technical Seicondary                                      Polytochn.cs
1   2                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
Pr-School                Primay                   Corlmapnnry             Genwal Lyces                                              UnivewrsitV                                    0
Unifiad Secondary Schools                                Miliary
Experimnutal Secondwry                                   Technical Institutes                 --
-  Terminal Examinations
I Optional or Internship                                                                                      Other Cour s
Being phsa d                                                                                          oui
New dlopment or including Project Inatitutions                                                          Inhnt ea   Primg             T
~~~~~~~~~~~Tocher Training                                     Trmch r Training
Nursing
1       (          3   -,43
-.8.    L..J
Gymnastics
J O a S
Ages  5         6        7                  9         10       11        12            13        14       15        16        17       18       19        20        21       22       231
World Bank - 17767






ComPARATIVE EDUCATION  INDICATURS                                                               A-UNEX I
.................                      Sao                                                   Table 1.1
2
MARCH 27,1978 I
.Ss ...
........................................................................... 7........................................................
I         I        I            c          I                   I           I        I            I        I             I             I         I       I          I
1        1 GNp/  g % GNP   It TOTAL:%   UF PUBLIC  I                       I        I            SPRI. 8AV.PRI,   I                   I         W C   I            I
I         ICAPITAI DEVUTEOtPUBLIC  I EDUCATION    ILITER-  IpRI. iCOMPLE-  iSTU-  ISCH.TEACHiPROGRE33-1 SEC. 18TU-  I                                              1
:    AY    i TL) LDU,s    EJ1P. 9 RECURRENT    lAcy              iENRULLITION          iDENTSi3ALARY INSION RATE  jLNRULLjDENT3iMIGHERj
gmARgElf fPU6L]CIDEVOTEDIEXP 4LLOCATEDI    RATE  IRATIO  $RATE FURtPER    IRELATIUN  %FROM PRI,INATIC  iPER    iENROLLo
IPfJP . sPRICES? EAP.    ,   TU    I                TOt        It% OF   S NET   IPRI.SCH,tTEACHS TO Gt /  tTO SEC.   i NET   ITEACM- RAT10i
.1MILLS.i (,!SS)i nNL Y I   I   EOU. SPRI, SEC.' HI.IADUL73)i M                        iCY ,CLEW    $ER    I CAPITA   I   W                 (z)   teR    I  M        I
(1) t:   i2) i   ( 3)    1                       CS)        I c 6 I       (7)         (0)    1 (9) 1   (10)    I ( I I I           MI)          13      1 4)   1
....................................................................................................................................
ADVANCED
73    7 5F 4,A70F           4. 3     9,9       479   29U   2 09    99           98         9 3         26         2 Q          99         5 1       1 9       8,00
CANADA             72   P2 .8F 6,qSnl          7 .7    19.4        So    38    1 9        98        89         98         24          2.0         99          Be        1 7       9,0 o
GERMANY F,REW.72   61 .8F 6. 6 7 01            a .2    1 4 . e     ...   74** 26          99        91         99         33          . I .       99          91        22       17.OOCY
JAPAN              71 11 1 .6F 4,41,OF         41. 3    ao.7       39    38    12         99        9qu        99C        25C         2.0         99C         94D       20C    28 0 go
NETHERLANDS    7i   13.7F S. 750               A , 5    t9.IG    32    45    tg           99        95         95         29          3. 0        97          73        20       11.0 0
NEvh ZEALANr,   73    3. 1 F 4,2MOF            S.?    . . I        39    24    29         99        99         99         26                      99          by        19      261.0 0
NORwAy             72    4.OF 6,76OF           710    15.2         58    23    1 i        99        99         98         20          1.9         99          76        14      1 1.0 0
SwEDEN             73    8.2F P , I SOF        8.9      16.u       36    la    11         99        99         99          1 7        . I .       9o          85        1 0     30 .00
U.9 .              72   qb.OF 3, 760P          6 . 3    1 2.7      26    39    22         98        99           I.       26          2.0          .          bi        17      It 00 0
U'S.A.             72 21 1,5F 7, I ?OF         h.0    1 5.4        ...   73** 27          99        99         99         asu         2.0          .          93        19U    29.0 0
EUROPE
N;                7    9. f   2, 5 90        2. 6    1 0.4       37    26    21         8bb       99         82D         31       2. 0           74JE       BD        2?       IS.00
IRELAND            7 ,    3. IF 2, 39 ol       S. I    1 3 .9 0    4p    4 I Y   I ily    98       97          99A        35        I . .         qSA         75        19        7,00A
PORTUGAL           75    9.b   i , 630         4. 41    1 7 ,     52    27    1 3        70        9a         55         21        3. 0          7o          29        14        7 .60
RUMANIA            75   21 , 3   1 , TOO       4,0       b.-4      36    19    1 3        96        joix                  2 1        ...          98          49        22       1 0 . 0 0
SPAIN              7 1   SS . 3F 2, 71,OF      2.4b   15.2A    4gy   22Y   15Y    94A               91A                   35A                                 a9A       10        6.00A
AFRICA
;:;;;i;            77   16.q        q,4 0      7 5                               2 1      35        7ex        45         39          a , 0       S 5         ibx       I 3       6.00
BENIN              7 3    3, IF    I 3op       9 . 3    3 2.0      14 7    a3    10       I I       32XB       70ki       508       25.00          43(3         7b      39E,      0.44CY
BUTSWANA           7b    o .7       411 0      cl. n    1 9.2      53    20    14          S        illx       95         32          3, 0         60         II        22        0 .30
BURUNDI            74    3,7    I 1OF         ?.S    1q.9Q    47R   41P   12R    to                2ox        30?        38        to .0          141         2A       la        I .0
CAMEROnK           7 3    7.4F    2mop         5.9    2u,Q         38Y   29Y   17Y                  74         - . .      510Y                                 9        43CY    0190cy
C,A.R.             70    I OF    22(,F         4.ON   20.U         5b    19                         641cy      25         bscy                     18           5cy    27BY    0,07Y
CHAD               75    4 . oE    I OnF       3. 0    1(.u        78    22               15        29xoy    so           65by    15.0              a          2XbY   30          0 .0 itly
CONG00)            74    1.3F    51 (,F        6. 6    19.3        40    32    21         50?    i33x          63         t-3         6,0          48         33A       22        3. (to
EGYPT              74   37.2F    2#)OF         5. 3      ...       29    36    241        40        74X        45          40                      64         39X       28       It loo
ETHTOPIA           76   2A,G        I "O       2. 9    15.8        28    25    1 0         7        21         . 4        50                      63           13       S4        11,
GABON              73    O.',F 2,S40F          5.0    2o.b         25       q    I I       1.    IbAlxuy    2sr           46C         5.u          18A        20C       21C       1 40CY
GAMBIA ...         It,    0 . 5     I 7 0       3 I 3    1 1 . 5   A)6    25       6      I 0       27         90          33        ...           92         1 3       25
GUINE A            7 t,    4 .7     1 plip     4.3"   ...          30    31    30         ...       3OX        64         4s          12F         sh          lix       26        4.00
GHANA              7 1    9.qF    59OF         a.?    24,4DR   380   159   230            - I .     56xcy    62           30cy    . . I            1 4        1 1 x     16cy    0 .74fiy
IVORY COAST    72    6.7F    541 ,)F          6, 3    2IJ , 7     27BY 330Y  13Y          9A       52         57A        46        . . .          ...        I 0       25        1 .20BY
KENYA              76   1 3 .8      2,i 0      5.9    ab.0         6 7    2 3    1 0      610       807        bo?        3 a         6.0          30         1 6       al        I . 0
LESOTHn            7 5    1 .2      1 4 0 E    I 2. 0 P   23.0     4 9    1 a    2 0      4 0       Ss         5 0        sa          7.0h         a I        I 0       2 6       I .0 o
LIBERIA            7 5    I . 5     a I (      2.4    1 3.2        2 7    1 S    2 0      7 3       so         ...        35          2.0          ...        1 2       2 6       I , I 0 A Y
MADAGASCA-         7 Q    8.AF    2 Cj P       3. 2    22 Is       5 1    2 4    a 5      4 0       box        3 0        6 3        15.0         a 6          9x       26        I .00
MALAWI             7 6    5. 2      1 4 0      P.4    1 0 , 0      4 2    1 a    2 3      2s        56EX       I 7        52          2,4          7 0         4EX    2 0         0.26CY
MALI               7 5    5 .7 F      QOF      4.2P   33.OF    USF   37F   IBF            IOF       22XF                  48F       9,SF           SOF         b x      2 1
MAURIIANIA         7 0    1 3F    32OF         a .5    a I , 0     . . .   I . .   ...    I 0       lsx                   22          . I .                     3       24
MAURITIUS          7b    O.qL    680           4. 7    12.1        So    26        6      soc       94         99         24          4 S           90        45        32        12so
MOROCCO            74   1 b, 7F    47OF        -,. ac   16 .5      44    47        9      26?       Sax        el         37          . - I        3 t        13X       21        2.00
NIGERIA            7 1   7S.OF    3uf)        3. 21   ...         40A   24A   20A    ...           39xcv    ...          34C v       ...                       4       20cy    0.37CY
RWANDA             73    4 . I F    I 00      3 .2t   28.0D    I . .   I . .   . . .    23         52                    5 I                                   e       1 3       0,23CY
SENEGAL            7 1    S.OF    36OF         4 . 0 t,  22,SDP   38A   42A    SA         I 0       3ex                    46                                 I I A     25        1,71CY
SIERRA LEFNE   7 3    3 . oF    2onF           3 .4    23.4        3 1    36    30        15?       3AX        45         32          4,vE         68         13X       21        0 .53gy
SOMALIA            75    3, 2       1 v 0      3, 74  1 0 .8 9    490   IbQ   19Q    Su?           34X        56         3S         I 0 u        6 (i          3       1 5       0 1 10
SUDAN              7 2   I 5, 6 F    ;, 7 o p  4.s    1 3 .2       4 3    2q    2 a       I 5       38         7 5        45          4.0          2 5        1 1       2 0       1 .23Y
SWAZILANrl         75    o . 1,     4 71       3, a      ---       38    31    19         So        73         71          38         3.8          Si         24        22        I Q o
TANZA, I A        74   1 4.7F    17OF         5 , I N   1 7 .,)   36    ...   12         63        44X        I 1.       49                        7          2        21C       0 , 3 0
TUNTSTA            73    5 .6F    730          6 . 3    23, 4      37    43    le         Ss        72         a 1        4 1         6,0          31         1 it      2 1       3,0 o
UGANDA             7 0   1 1 .6F    230        5.2N   I 7.bck   a 00   220   250    2SA             "Sxcv                  36         . I .        14A          UXCY   21         0.5say
UPPER voLTA    72    i, OF    I I OF           a . 0    23 .9      65    I 0       6       S        I 0                   45         18.0          20           2       23        0,010Y
ZAIRE              73   2m.7F    14OF          5,?CN ?1.3C    suc   IIC   29C             1 5       63         38         44A         6,0          43          8        24        0.9boy
ZAMBIA             76    S. I       49UO       6.9    1S.9         Su    22    22         39        97X        so          49         7 .0         21         16        23           so
CENTRAL A"EFICA ANn IHE CAPIRFEAN
---------------------------------
COSTA RICA         71    2.OF    qhnF          5 2    22.7         57    25    12         69        8bcy       65          29         3.0          Ss         22CY    as         12,1 ICY
DOMINICAN PEP.72    4.7F    720                 3 .0    1 3.9      42    24    22         51        80         17          54         3.OU         63         1 3.5    24         7 .00
EL SALvbn[iii   75    3,8E    411 ot            3 .6    ?3.8       bt       5    22       6 061     tSL         11.        39CY       .11          39         13xc    21cy    4,35by
GUATEMALA          73    b,3F    51OF           1 , q   16.0       5s    23    1 4        47        614        26          35         3, 0         69           a       as        4.0gy
MAITT              7t.   4 .7       2 0 0       1 , 0    8 . 0     6 1    21    1 1       208       25F        13          sbu        3.0          62           4       ...         0, I
HONDURAS           75    2.9        "ROG       4,2(,  18.BG    b2G   iSG   19G    5s                75         30          3s         3 .0         68         I I       I I       4,gO
JAMATCh            72    2.OF  I , I I OF      6,9Y   19. 7        33Y   22Y    7y    86           106XY        I . .      52                      . . .      32xy    19          4,79Y
MEXICc             70   59.qF  1,05OF          2, b      9.3       54    24    1 2        76        7 1        it          446        3 , 0        63         19        23        6,12cy
NIC ARAGi,A        74    2.3F    700F          215      1 4,2      61    1 3    1 3       57        65         a 1         37         2. 0         93         1 1       ?Q        7 .0 0
TRINIPAO & T, 76    1 .0 0  1 '07st            3, 4N   I 0 8&    SOE   25E   I 3E    90C             SI        93         34          2. Du        49         44        25
SOUTH AIEWICA
A          76    5 .8       31         5,0    17.SF    ... ...                    38        178        29U        24          SF           ...         48       IOD
BRAZIL             75  I 0 7 . 0   1 , 0 1 n    5 . 0    1 2. 4    42E   2oE    PE   64A            66G                    a7CY                    . . .      26G        ISCY    6,005
CMILE              72   10.3F    9grip          4,bV   IO,bAY   36Y   14Y   36Y    ...    I I I xov                        37BY                    ...         46xoy   ...         I . .
COLamsTA           70   23.6F    SAOF           4.0    10.9         35    to    20        73        67         ao          36         4,0          go          17        14       4.00
ECUADOR            7a    7 . I F    S90F        3, 7    27,7C    45gy 420Y  JOGY   69               72          . . 1      38         I . .        , . .       I a       1 4      4.978Y
GUYANA             74    O,8F    510            S,8N   1 4 7 0    47    $5    1 4         83A       92X         39         33         6.0          I 9        62X       24         1 .0 0
PARAGL'h Y         74    2.6F    5AOP           I . a   It . 0     Ss    I     22        SI        82          2b         30         1.9          65          1 1       1 2      S.00
PERU               71   15.4F    760            'A.5    2Q.ID    50    22    15           72        80          38         39DY       3.0          70          30       23DY    12,00
URUGUAY            75    20    1,30U            2,5     15.3        ob    34    20        q4        93X         119        24          ...         83          .11       10        I..
VENEZUELA          73   i2.OF 2,29OF            Li , 6    19,9      300   asu   359    77A          a t                    33         2.4          . . .       33        ...    la.63CY



COOPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CONTO)
ZSgssgxsU3*zmSUsfl2x.zflSSSXSZ.g                                                           AKNNEX I
MARCH 27,1978                                                                 Page 2 of 2
swaS5.sSguzzma.sf
i  GNP/ I % GNP   12 TUTALtX   OF PUBLIC I                    3        I           IPNI,  :AVIPRI.   I                       13aEC  Ia
a    CAPITA:  DEVUTEDiPUBLIC  a EDUJCATION    ?LITER- I PR),  ECOMPLE.  ;SlTU- ISCH,TEACHFIPROGRES3..  SEC. aSTU. a                           I
a       AT   i To EDU,i  EXP. a RECURRENT    ,ACY              SENRULLITION        SLTENTSISALARY IN31UN RATE  sENRULLaOENTSIHI.qERa
I       :;MARKE71 (PU8LICaDEVOTEDIEXP ALLOCATEDI  RATE IRATID  IRATE FURaPER   ZRELATION aFROm PRI,aRATIO  IPER   aENkCLLI
* PUP. gPRyCESI FOP,    I  TO    I             TOI       1(% OF   a NET   IPRI,SCH.ITEACHs TU GNP/ ITU SEC.   I NET   ITEACMH  RATIO:
YRIMTLLS,:  (WWI) ONLY)   i  EDO,. IPPI,, SEC. HI,IADULTS)i (%1   eCYCLEMt)ER    i CAPITA   i  (2)                          a(%i   IER    I (2) 
:01)  ii  (2)  a  (3)~ ~~ a   8    a     (5        I (63     il 7         (8)    a (9):   C IA    a (I1 I           (12)      ( 13 )  I llAl I
ASIA ANP) OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    74   13,7F    I 50F                 ...*,     39P   23P   16P    1 0       260       28        a l        5,20       78          OX     2 1       1 .0 0
BANGLATESH        753  74,68      808      1.2    20,'2... II.   ,,,    23                560        ., .     8 8        ...        I,,,       230      28           
CHINArTAI~AN4  73   36,0F    q3(18         5.2    14.0       28    4 1    22     82       98C       94        40        14.,0       84         61C      26     20.OOC
INDIA            7 1 6 08 I F    4n8      2.6VY   .I .... . . . .. 29                    78X       I,        A  3A      ,,, I        ..      280      2080  A  4,OOAY
INDnNFSTA        74 132. I F    22         3,98  I1I,08O   69    2 1    1 0      60B      790       43        10         2,0G       52         190     1 4      2,00o 
IRAN             7 3  33.4F  (, ,AYF       3 .3    12.6'    508   188   128    so         77        74A       32         5 0 8      R0A       24       32       A,S2CY
IRAc             72   1 1 ..F I ,25V8      b. 7   16.30R........    26                    bICY      ...       22         * .    .         . I  2AXLY  26        b.28CY
JORD)AN          73    2.7F    uo80        7 .0     8,8     52    1 5    21      59       910x      76        38        5, 0        MA        500      22       8.0 0
KOREA             75  35 ,3     5 30       2 .9    16,08    AS    33      2      92D    1080        98        52         3. 5       77        550      38       7. 8
LE8ANnNh         72    3.,2F I ,0701       3,s    1 8,0     39    00    1 0      68       86       815        19        2 .0       t63        2AU      25      23 .0 0
MALAYSIA         748  32. 3      7608      6 . P  28.0      4 4    3 t    I I     0C      960       90        32        8,00        83F       48F      27F      3.OOF
NEPAL            76  12,4FI8 nOF           I.1   I10,0      2q    20    0:       19       59        28        31         2, 3       bA        14       24       0,8
OMAN             72    0,8F ?, 000         1 3,7w    3.8    94           -       20       240       98        33         7,.0       *,        0,80'4     9       ..
PAWTSTAN.        75  69,.0       ( 308     1.6    18,2       45    25    18      21       47X       50        39         2 ,0       ...       1 7      18       0 .0 0
PAPuA N.G.       75    2.6       Li1I0     5,6    1 6,1      38    16    28      32       5 7?      738       3 1      1 1,0        90        1207    24        0 I 9 0?
PHILIFpINEzS    74  42.?8    3801'         2,5    1 4, 9     73    1 5    12     87      100        ,, ..     34       1 5.0        . .       440      ,,I.    2 1.0 0
SINGAPOIRE       72    2.3F 2, 4501        3 .1    1 6,2    40    31    1 5      75A      860       728       33         ,.,        99A       57Y      28       8,250
SYRIA            75        , a  640o       3,6    6,89      39    25    26       53       89        70        35        2, 0        92        45       2 1     12,0 0
THAILANn         73   41I,889   3501'      4.ONF 20.7F    65        9    Is      8e       870       95C       32        3, 0 U      91 C      210      24       2.Oo
TURKEY           72  40.7F    SUTE         ...    1 3,008 ..   ... .,, I         ..      I u  xc Y    ,,,1    3405       ...         . ,      2200    270Y    5,31AT
YEMEN            73    5,80    7(00        0 .51    4,.0    85P   21P  23P    1 0         150       1 8       36        5,0         75         20      1 9      0,0580
YEMFN P.D,.1,   72    1,7F    7000         2.3A  1 2,6       79    1 2           I 10     704       3 1       29       1 0 ,0       99        120      20       0,08AY
NUMMFR f18 CTOI.NTPTFS:                    78 6   76       784    7 2    7 3    7 4     92         59        4 2          50       5g        82       7 7       7 5
R AN OFI                               to,5-   (3,8-   (2 5.  (0-   (0-    ( 5-       (10-      (17 -      (19-      I(1,8-    ( 7 .       (, 4     (9~     1,01-U 
1e.oP  )  32,3)  96 1 52)   40)    98)           1840)    98         65o   I     25,0)    890         75.U)  434       23,0)
OUAPTILFS:UpPEV  a                      5,2    22,1       55    31    22      75       87        75         46          4        80        29       26       4,0
,-FPIAN:                    0 . 0    1       89 4   2 3    1 5    50o      7 1       5 0       38           5        643       1 4      253      2,.0 0
L,,t)Vf   :                3,0    13,9       38    16    12       21      52         30        13           3        75         9       20        ,8
M ACNITUJUE NTL nP 0FGLIGIHLE 83A1971                              N.0GD
O  QUIESTjnNA8LE                       C'1972                        P.INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                         LMSI AND 2 WORLD RANK ATLAS
r NCLUDES PAPT.T148  STUJDENTS U.1973                              UpIENTRAL GOiVT. ONLY                                             COR IBRO  MISSIONS
.. COMATNFD !47TH PPI18APY            E41974                        R:MINISTkY OF EDUCATION  (MOE) UNLY                     3 TO' 14 1880I MISSIONS
0  J, 004   REVIEW                    F=1975                       8SMOE AND STATE GUVY,  ONLY                                         AND/OR UNESCO
G=1976                        T.EXCLUOING CENTRAL GOVT.                                         STATISTICAL
U.PU8LIC UNLT                                                     YEARBOOK
V.INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XBINCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
YaUNESCO SOURCES
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               . . . . . . . . .      . . . . . . . .
COMPARATIVE FDUCATIUN DATA ARE ''SEFUL IN THE EVALUATION ITF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS Ok kELATIHE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DERELOPmFNT HFTOEENj VARIOUS C) U0T8)4S, HO'EVER,nN THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD XE APPROACHEC .1TH
GREAT CALUTIUN. 0070 PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TANLO HAVF BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY 80 THE 8888 HISSIONS FROM GOvERNmENT SOURCES, THE
REMArNDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OP OATA FROM UNESCO, EFFORTS HARE AEEN MADE To STANDARDIZE DEFINITIOqS "ND .178I8 LIMITS, TO CHECK THiE
ACCURACY (.F THE DATA. NEVEPTHELESS,sUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS A80 OHE 8ANK IS WORK1NG TOT IMPROVE THEO,
PROGRESSIVELY [IN THE PCCASTr)N OF ITS OPENATICNAL wnRK, IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, ORE FOLLOKING QUALIFICATIUNS SHOULD 80 BoRNE IN
MIND:
(I)-EDUUATICN" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES AL.. EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND) NON-FORMAL;
(2)"PRIMA8Y EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY" EDUCATION REFERS TOJ ALL EDUCATIUN AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS 0)F TYPE (E.6, GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) I
(3)"LITERACY RATES'(cOL.6) ARE OFTEN ObTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES, IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE JN~.Y APPROXIMAIIONS A8D IT Is
DOLJRTFUL THAT ANY UNIFPRM DEFINITio'( nF 'LITERATE. HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLYp
(AT"P(RLIC EXPENDITORE IN EDUCATION'ICOLS.3,0 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDI IJVES UEVOTED 7U EDUCATIOIN BY
PUBLIC AND DOASI-PUPLIL AGENCIES;
15)'ENRIJLLMENT RATTOS-(CnOIS 7, 12 AND 10) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIALE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPRnPRIATE SCROD) , PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY' LEVEL, THEY ARE 0U TEN SUBJECT TO A 'IDE .AR(,1N OIF ERROJR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTPTES OWING TO VAP7ATTUN IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I,E, AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION ANO) ENROLLMENTS), ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREOJENTLY ARE, HIGIHFH  THAN TolE NUMBER OIF STUDENIS ACTUALLY IN   SCHOOL, OVERAGED STUDENTS wmOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED)  80 
F CLUTUJOEtS A LSOT C AN I NF LATE  T HE RA T IOS,



ANNEX 1
Table 1.2
PORTUGAL
Evolution of the Labor Force
in relation to population and unemployment, 1970-1980
(in thousands)
1970     1974      1976.a!   1 97 8   198 0/
Resident Populationc/            8,477    8,731      9,134    9,214    9,301
Labor Force                      3,270    3,279      3,554    3,548    3,544
Labor Participation Rate (%)    38.6        37.6      38.9      38.5      38.1
Employment                       3,180    3,099      3,102    3,197    3,318
Unemployment                        90       180       452       351      226
Rate of Unemployment (%)           2.8       5.5      12.7       9.9       6.4
a! Estimates of the Working Group on Employment, Ministry of Labor and
Ministry of Planning and Economic Coordination.
b/ Based on the 1977-80 Plan
c/ Continental Portugal only.
Source: Working Group on Employment, Ministry of Labor and Ministry of
Planning and Economic Coordination, July 1977.



ANNEX 1
Table 1.3
PORTUGAL
Education Enrollments, 1974-75
(Private and Public Schools)
As %           As %
Enroll-    of             in     Gradu-               Pupil/
Level                   ment    Age-   As %  Private   ates    Teachers Teacher
(in OOOs) Group Female Schools (in 0OOs) (in 0OOs) Ratio
Prt-primary             42.5      6.5    47      91        -          1.8    16
Primary (gr. 1-4)      933.1   137.9    48        6      183.0       34.6    27
Preparatory            253.2    74.3    49       10       94.1       18.3    12
(gr. 5-6)
Secondary
Academic (gr.7-11)  238.1    29.0    53        32       40.6       13.6    16
Technical(gr.7-11)  160.8    19.6    38         4        6.4       13.7    12
Technical InstS.       5.7      1.7    32       -        0.9        0.4    15
(gr. 10-12)
Teacher Training       8.7      2.0    93      10        4.0        0.6    14
(gr. 10-11)
Higher
University            57.9      7.7    44       8        4.3        3.8    15
(gr. 12-16)
Non-university         2.9      0.6    57      na        2.3        0.6     5
Source: Compiled by the mission from Estatisticas da Educacao, 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 1.4
PORTUGAL
Growth of Educational Expenditures
A. MINISTRY OF EDUCATION EXPENDITURES AS PERCENT OF GDP
GDP at                         Education
Current Prices                    Expenditures
(Bil. Escudos)            (Bil. Escudos)          x
1971               177.8                       3.6              2.0
1972               20R.1                       4.8              2.3
1973               253.5                       6.7              2.6
1974               308.5                       9.3              3.0
1975               343.8                      15.2              4.4
B. EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURES AS PROPORTION OF TOTAL PUBLIC EXPENDITURES
Million Escudos
1974      1975    1976/a    19771/a
1. Total public educational            10,096  15,214   21,598    24,406
expenditures /b
2. Total public expenditures           63,475  86,828  103,522   159,173
Percentage                            15.9    17.5      20.9       15.3
la Projected
/b Includes expenditures by ministries other than education
Source: Plano 1977-80
C. EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURES AS PERCENT OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES IN SELECTED
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES IN 1970
Belgium            20.8             Norway            12.6
Denmark            16.0             Spain             13.3
Holland            28.7             Sweden            16.0
Italy              17.5             Yugoslavia         8.3



ANNEX 1
PORTUGAL                            Table 1.5
Capital, Recurrent and Unit Costs, 1975
Public and Private Schools
A. ACTUAL BUDGET OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION - 1975
(Million escudos)
Primary and Preparatory                           6,440
Secondary                                         3,321
Higher                                            1,594
Central Administration                              842
Sub-Total                                                 12,197
Support of Private Schools                                      166
Directorates of Sport, Culture, and others                      894
Capital expenditures                                            785
Total                                                     14,002
Source: Calculated from government budgets.
B.  RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON PUBLIC EDUCATION (in 1975 Million escudos)
(Actual) (Projected)
1975       1985
Primary and Preparatory              6,440       8,920
Secondary                           23X321       7,843
Higher                               1,594       4,310
Central Administration                 842       1,813
Total                                      12,197     22,886
C.  UNIT RECURRENT COSTS OF PUBLIC EDUCATION (in 1975 escudos)
(excluding administration)
(Actual) (Projected)
1975       1985
Primary and Preparatory              6,376       8,109
Secondary                           10,066      13,071
Higher                              95,504      41,047
Source:  Mission calculations from data provided by Min. of Education
D.  RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON PRIVATE EDUtCATION (in 1975 Million escudos)
1975 a/    1985 a/
Primary and Preparatory               526        283
Secondary                             850     1,503
Higher                                178     _205
Total                                    1,554      1,991
a/ Estimates calculated by the mission assuming costs of private
school would be similar to unit costs of public schooling.



PORTUGAL                                                        ANNEX I
Table 1.6
Actual and Projected Enrollments and Teacher Requirements
Enrollment 1974-75  Enrollment 198O-81&/ Enrollmenc 1984-85V/                    Teachers 1974-75                Teachers 1984-85
in OOOs               in 000s               in thousands
Total        Public  Tocal |        Publics/ Total          Public4! Total        Public   T:P Ratio    Total           Public   T:P Ratio
Actual                                                                                       Pub & Priv.                         Pub & Priv
A.       PRE-PRImIARY               42.5            4     No target shown        150             75       1830           246       1:23         6000        3000        1:25
in Plan
8.  O   ?)rimarv  C.. 1-4)         933 (1387)   876                              720(105%)    685        34596         32361       1:27        27000       25500        1:27
HIp thes e  s 1                                1025          965
!~poT 055 s11                                 850          801
-t)  Preparator
ll pnrTIs:s            253 (74h)    228         325         295      340(100h)    320        20450         18226       1:12        14000       13000        1:25
H pothesis 11                                   355          320
R ptt::es:s  11l                                390         350
PrLmar, W ?reparatorv
Hspoclhesis I         1186 I116i)  iOlou       i3O          i260    1060           1025       55046        50637        1:22       41000        38500        1:26
Hypothesis II                                  1205         1121                                                                         1
11 pothesis III                                1415         1315
C. (i) :  ECONDARY GENERAL (Cr. 7-9)
Hypothesis 1            171 (34'.)    113        560         475      475ilJ         400      13605         10168       1:17       72000        19000        1:22
Hvpotl:es,s 11                                  570          485
Hypothesi. 111                                  650          553
i)  SECONDARY GENERAL (Cr. 10-11/12)                                             h
Hypothesis 1             67 (21%)      48       120          104      240-           200
Hypothesis II                                   120          104
Hypothesis 111                                  120          104
iii)  SECONDARY TECHNICAL                                                                              15312        13899        1:12       13500        11000        1:18
irst Cycle         lO  (207)     170   3                                             1
iecond Cycle        729/(22%)     1
ALL TYPES SECONDARY(Gr.7-11/12' 416 (49%)    331                                  715            600      289D          24067       1:14        35500       30000        1:20
Hypothesis i                                     680         579
Hypothesis II                                   690          589
Hypothesis III                                  770          657
D.       VOCATIONAL IRAI;ING          -            -         -           -        20             20         -             -          -          1400        1400        1:15
CENTERSL
E.      HIGHER EDUCATION
Universities             60 (7.7%)    53       82.4          80        8SW1           80       3792         3344        1:16        7000         6700        1:12
Institutes (including
Primary Tchr.Trng)                          21.6         20         25A/          25                                             1800        1800        1:14
Total Higher                                  104.0         ;w        110            105                                            8800        8500         1:12
IFigures in brackets indicate enrollment equivalency participation of appropriate school-age group normal for the Grades
a/     Ministry of Education projections in Plano. 1977-1980 but for public only using the following hypotheses:
Hypothesis I        for primary assumes admission of 6-year old group between 1977-78 and 1980-81; hence still some overlapping of
10-year and 11-year olds in 1980
Hypothesis 1I       for primary indicates development as at present, i.e. no improvement of flows- but assues  drop-outs from
Grade 4 reduced to 5% rapidly
Hypothesis III    for primary and preparatory assumes a more gradual reduction of drop-out rates
b/          Total enrollment mission assumption of private sector participation rsaining as in 1974-75
c/      Mission estimates derived from the Computer Forecasting model - Annex 17A in the World Bank Education Project
Identification Report No. 1545-PO.  The main assumptions are;
for Grades 1-6:          - promotion rates improve from 62% in Grade 1 and 81% ir Grade 6 to 97%  and 90%
respectively;
- repetition rates improve from 347. in Grade I and 37 in Grade 6 to 2% and 3%
respectively.
for Grades 7-11/12:    - promotion rates improve from 84% in Year I and 60% in year 5 to 90% and 90%
respectively: and
- drop-out rates improve from 10b in year I and 30% in year 5 to 57. and 5%
respecthrely.
d/       Mission estimate assuming participation rates of private sector reduce to 5% in primary. and 15% average in all types of post
primary
*'       Includes the technical institutes (enrollments 5725) and primary teacher training schools (11714) which are being upgraded
to post-secondarv level by 1980-81.
f/     Mission assumptior. that such centers would be developed by 1984 for 15- and 16-year old school leavers.
/      This should be compared with enrollments in first cycle general secondary 1113000) and first cycle technical secondary
(106000) in 1974-75: the latter are being phased out.
a/      Assumes Grade 12 in full operation in both general and technical secondary schools.
if      Mission  stimate  asoming strict control



PORTUGAL
Projected Teacher Requirements (Minimum Needs a/)
Public and Private Education
Teachers on Post  Teachers Required   Addition Needed  Wastageb!  Total Addi-  Average An-
1974-75A/      on Post 1984-85       1984 over 1974    etc.    tional to be  nual Output
Trained       Required
A. Pre-Primary                      1,830                 6,000              4,200          1,400         5,600             560
B. Primary Grades 1-4              34,600                27,000             -7,600         12,400         4,800             480
C. Preparatory Grades 5-6          20,450                14,000             -6?400          7,200           800              80
A + B + C Subtotal         56,880               47,000             -9,800          21,000        11,200          1,120
D. Secondary First Cycle           19,O000/              22,000              3,000          8,500        11,500           1,150
Grades 7-9
E. Secondary Second Cycle           9,90go/              13,500              3,600          4,400         8,000             800
All types Grades 10-12
D + E Subtotal             28,900               35,500               6,600         12,900        19,500          1,950
d/
F. Vocational Training Centres        -                  1,400               1,400-           100         1,500             300
G. Higher Education                 3,800                7,000               3,200          1,300         4,500            450
H. Middle or Unified -             39,450               36,000              -3,400         15,700        12,300          1,230
Grades 5 - 9
a/ Minimum because the data for 1974-75 may contain a certain measure of double-counting as it has not been
possible to determine the degree of full-time equivalency or numbers of teachers performing
clerical tasks.   Further, this exercise assumes a more rational and efficient use of teacher resources to                KY
eliminate the present under-utilization.                                                                                    x
b/ Estimated at about 4% p.a. for retirements, deaths, resignations, promotions, etc.
c/ Assumes about 66% of teachers in secondary schools are teaching in the first cycle and the remainder are teaching s
in second cycle.
dl Over period 1980-84 hence first output in 1980.
e/ To indicate need if a new structure of grades 1-4 (primary), grades z-9 (intermealate) ztna graaes io-IL
(Cecnndarv) should be selected.



PORTUGAL
Projected Physical Facilities Requirements
Public Education Only
(in thousands)
Estim- Project- Addition-  New          New       New Places  Total        Aver-   Estim-   Average
ated      ed    al Enroll- Places  Places for  for Grad-   New Places age          ated      Annual
Enroll- N6. of Enroll-      ment    for Add.Replacem.   ual Elim-   for Ten    Annual  Unit           Capital
ments   Places  ment    1984 over  Enroll- Places 1984 ination of   Years          Require-Cost       Cost US
1974-75 1975   1984-85      1974    ment    over 1974   double shift Period    ment    US$000    $ mill.
a/                            b/7-     c/            d/                     e/f/               f/T
Pre-Primary            4      3      75        71        52         -              -         52       5.2      0.2         1.0
Primary              876   570      685      -190      -140       150            150        160      16.0      0.3         4.8
Preparatory          228   150      320        92        70        30             30        130      13.0      0.7         9.1
Vocational            -     -        20        20        15         -              -         15-g/    1.5      1.5         2.3
'Training Centers
Secondary 1st        210   135      400       190       140        45             45        230      23.0      1.3        29.9
Cycle
Secondary 2nd        120    80      200        80        60        20             20        100      10.0      1.8        18.0
Cycle
(incl. Technical)
Higher                70=/  56-=   105         35         35-/      5              5         45       4.5      4.0        18.0
Total                                                                                                                    83.
a/  Assumption that actual number of physical places is equivalent to about 65% of enrollment
b/  Assumption that new places will be approximately 75% of projected enrollments in view of multiple shifts.             D 
c/  Assumption that about 2% - 3% of existing 1974 places (footnote a/)above) would need to be replaced                   -.
annually and this includes equipping
d/  Provision of additional places equivalent to 2% to 3% of existing 1974 places for this purpose annually
e/  Unit costs for construction, equipment and furnishing but excludes site purchase and professional fees
f/  at 1977 constant prices.  Construction to begin 1978--79.
g/  Estimate                                  h/  Double shift does not apply



PORTUGAL
Teacher Training: Capacity, Enrollments & Outputs in Project Institutions
Capacity           Proposed Full-time Enrollment          Add'1 Enroll.overl976/7  Maximum Annual Output
Pre-Service                               Pre-service              Pre-service
Full-  Ad-                  Sec.  Sec.   In-                          Second-  In-                Second-  In-
time  hoc/a  Basic  Spec. Gen. Tech. Serviceb Total  Basic Spec.  ary Service Basic Spec.  ary Service
Porto                 630    90    360    180    -        -      90      630    -380  180    -    90        120    90      -      90
Aveiro (University)  650/'C 120    180/d   -    750   60         90    1080    - 20   -    550   90          60      -    210    90
Faro                  330    90    270       -      -     -      60      330    +100   -       -    60       90      -     -      60
Castello Branco       330    60    270       -      -     -      60      330    - 10   -      -    60        90      -     -      60
Leiria                240    60    180       -      -     -      60      240    - 70   -       -    60       60      -     -      60
Braganza              330    90    270       -      -     -      60      330    - 30   -       -    60       90      -     -      60
Viana da Castelo      330    90    270       -      -     -      60      330    + 60   -       -    60       90      -     -      60
Vila Real             240      -    180      -      -     -      60      240    -270   -       -    60       60      -     -      60
Beja                  240      -    180      -      -     -      60      240    + 30   -       -    60       60      -      -     60
3320   600   2160    180   750   60    600    3750    -590  180   550  600             720    90    210   600
a/  Short courses of up to one week's duration arranged in each region.
b/  Full-time one-year equivalent courses depending on demand in each location for up-grading primary and secondary teachers
and specialized courses in different locations covering remedial teaching, school administration, preparatory school
math and sciences, etc.
c/ Full-time equivalent capacity of the Integrated Center for Teacher Training whose students would also use the other
facilities of the university.
d/ Including an annual intake of 15 pre-primary trainees.
January 31, 1978                                                                                                                       n M
a ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~      



PORTUGAL
REVISED TECHNICAL ASSISTAPNCE SCHEDULE
EXPERTS
Total              1977                    1978                     1979                     1980                     1981
Category                             No.   Length   -         ----  ----- 
Man/Mo   1       2     3    4                               1      2 3    4  1  2                                          3     4
A  Teacher Education
(a) Planning, organization & curriculum development           1       12                                                  _
(b) Equipment list preparation (inc. specifications)          3        6
(c) Trainers for short course on preparing teacher trainers   2        6
(d)  In-service planning, administration &organization        1       12                                             _
(e) Teacher training & teaching post-graduate teacher         2       12
education (M. Ed.)
(f)  Aveiro:  - organization & administration M& teaching)    1       12
(g)          - curriculum development, in-service             1       12
organization (& teaching)                                                                                                                                        I     I
(h)          - technical teacher educator                     1       12
(i)  Porto:   - handicapped training:
* curriculum review                     3         3
(j)                  ' equipment lists& specifications        5       15
(k)                  *remedial teaching                       1         6
B. Technician Training
Teacher Training & Program Development                  5-8       44
C. Vocational Training
Trainer of Teacher Trainers                             1-2        6
D. Management Training
(a)  Higher management                                        1        30
(b) Middle management                                         1       24
(c)  Supervisory management                                   1        21
(d) "Tele" - education                                        1        21
(e) Centers' Development Advisors                             2         6
(f)  Shonr-term consultants                                   8        45
E. Curriculum Development
(a-) Planning, organization & methodology                   1-2         4
(b) Curriculum evaluation                                   1-2         4
(c) Graphic services                                        1-2         3
(d) Subject-matter specialists                              4-6        12
F. Studies
(a)  Feasibility studY of para-medical institutes             6        18
(b) Study of university science, engineering and technology
facilities                                                6       36
(c) Study of manpower planning                                6        18
SUB-TOTAL   72  400                                                                                     World Bank-18746-1-- - - -IX
SU-TOTAL                  72       400                                                                                                             World Bank -18746        or



ANNEX 1
Table 2.2
Page 2 of 2
PORTUGAL
REVISED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SCHEDULE
FELLOWSHIPS
Total           1977               1978                1979              1980               1981
Category                                       LeNo.  Man/Mo.t      3   4    1   2   _   4    1   21     3    4        2    3   4    1    2 33   4
No.I Ma/o                                                                             F2 _1  _    _
A. Teacher Education
Wii   Post-graduate studies in teacher education:
(a)  University of Aveiro Staff (inc. tech. & comm.)    8-10    300                                * _   _   _   _
(b) Primary prospective trainers                      18          54                                           - _   _   _   _   _
(c) Trainers in learning resources & A-V techniques    8-10       30                                           _   _   _   _    _   _   _
(d) Specialized techniques for handicapped children    4-06       90                                  _        _    _    _   _
(el Trainers in remedial teaching methods           2-04          48
6i,)   Study Visits
(a)  University of Aveiro -director & dept. heads   4-06          18
(b( Directors (& prospective directors) - magisterio  10          20
(c)  MEIC teacher training administrators           2-04          12
(d) Administrators in sPecial education             3-05          15
B.  Technician Training
li     r Industr al Technologies (4-month internships)
(a)  Directors of Institutes and                       5           2
Head Instructors (short visits)
Ib)       Electronics                                  2           8
(c)       Electricity                                  2           8
(d)       Refrigeration & Air Conditioning             2           8
(ei        Instrumentation & Process Controls          1           4
(f)       Ouality Control                              2           8
(g)       Design Drafting                              2           8
(h)       Civil Construction                           1           4
(ii)   Food Technologies
(a)  Directors of Institutes and                       5           2
Head Instructors (short visits)
(b)       Meats Processing                             2           8
(c)       Milk Processing                              2           8
(d)       Fruit & Vegetable Processing                 2           8
(n)       Wine Making                                  2           8
If)       Fish Processing                              2           8
1gi       Agricultural Engineering                     2           8
Ih)       Animal Production                            2           8
0i)       Agricultural Production                      2           8
(iii)  Ministry Administrators
MEIC Administrators in Higher Education                3           3
C.  Management Training
la)   Study Visits                                       -         20                                       -             m   -   - L  I
lb)   Prospective trainers                               5        120                                            -                 -         m   -   -   -
Ic)   Prpspective trainers                              25        300                                            -   -         -                       - j
Id)   Prospective trainers (short term)                 25        125                                            -   -   -   - i        -       I
D.  Curriculum Development
(a)   Directors of National & Regional Centers        3-04          12
(b)   Curriculum projectoperations Iwork)             3-04          12
Ic)   Curriculum evaluation                           3-05         30
(d)   Graphics and media                              3-05         30
(e)   Planners& curriculum developers                 3-06          12
Fellowmships SUB-TOTAL                     190        1 355    -                                        i         |
Note: The allocation of personnel, man/months and cost estimates                                                                                             World Bank-18747
should be interpreted fileibly according to needs at the time of implementation



P O R T U G A L
REVISED LIST OF CRITICAL ACTIVITIES
Proposed Completion Dates
Commercial Institute                              Technician    Technician
Vocational training   Management       Basic       Training/b    Training/d
Teacher Training and   Training       Teacher       Teacher        Teacher
Technician Training/a                Training      Training/c    Training/e
A. Civil Works
1.  Selection of consultant architects          03/78            04/78        02/78          02/78           02/78
2.  Completion of site acquisition                 NA            06/78        03/78          04/78           03/78
3.  Review of preliminary drawings              04/78            05/78        06/78          06/78           06/78
4.  Review of final bid documents                  NA            10/78        06/78          01/79           02/79
5.  Completion of construction drawings         12/78            03/79        03/79          03/79           04/79
6.  Analysis of bids                            03/79            10/79        07/79          09/79           09/79
7.  Completion of construction                  10/79            02/81        02/81          03/81           09/81
B. Furniture & Equipment
1. Completion of preliminary
equipment lists                           02/78            05/78        04/78          04/78           03/78
2. Completion of equipment & furniture
lists with specification                  06/78            09/78        08/78          10/78           09/78
3.  Bid awards                                  02/79            10/78        04/79          04/79           05/79
4. Commencement of installation of
major equipment & furniture               06/79            05/80        03/80          05/80           11/80
C. Staffing
1. Beginning of teacher recruitment
for training                              04/78            05/78        05/78          05/78           05/78
2.  Appointment of teachers                     04/79            12/80        07/80          07/80           05/81
a/ All are existing institutes; some renovations and minor construction necessary.
b/ Faro.
c/ Porto.
d/  Setubal.
e/ Aveiro.
March 7, 1978



PORTUGAL I
Contingency Allowances
Total Contingencies
as % of     as % of
Consultant        Technical Assistance                                    Total        Cost
Civil Works      Furniture        Equipment        Architects      Specialists      Fellowships       Total Project Cost    Project      Without
Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign, Local  Foreign Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign   Total   Cost    Contingencies
Contingencies (as % of
project cost):
Unforeseen                    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0       10.0   10.0    10.0    10.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
Price escalation /a           36.0    25.0    31.0    21.0      30,0   20.0    14.0       7.0    10.0    10,0    10.0      10.0
Total                       49.6    37.5    44.1    33.1      43.0   32.0    25.4    17.7    17.5    15.5    15.5        15.5
Project cost (without
contingencies):
Millions Escudos             544.2   227.9    41.6    17.8       35,0  268.3    48.2      5.3    20.3    81.2    11.6      46.6   700.0  647.1   1,348.0
Millions US$                  14.0     5.8      1.1     0.4       0,9    6.9      1.2     0.2     0.5      2.1     0.3       1.2    18.0   16.6       34.6
% Foreign exchange                    29.5%            30.0%            88.5%            10.0%           80.0%             80.0%           48.07,
Contingencies (amounts):
Unforeseen
Millions Escudos            54.5    22.8      4.1     1.8       3.5   26.8     4.8      0.5     1.0     4.1      0.6       2.3    68.5   58.3      126.8
Millions US$                 1.4     0.6      0.1     0.0       0.1    0.7     0,1      0.0     0.1      0.1     0.0      0.1      1.8    1.5        3.3
Price escalation
Millions Escudos           215.5    62.7    14.2      4.1      11.6   59.1     7.4      0.4     2.1      8.5     1.2      4.9   252.0  139.7       391.7
Millions US$                 5.5     1.6      0.4     0.2       0.3    1.5     0.2      0.0     0.0     0.2      0.0      0.1      6.4    3.6       10.0
Total contingencies:
Millions Escudos           270.0    85.5    18.3      5.9      15.1   85.9     12.2    0.9      3.1    12.6      1.8      7.2   320.5  198.0       518.5
Millions US$                 6.9     2.2      0.5     0.2       0.4    2.2      0.3    0.0      0.1      0.3     0.0       0.2   8,2    5.1         13.3
% Foreign exchange                    24.1%            24.4%            85.0%             6.9%            80.3%             80.0%          38.2%            27.8%      38.5%
Total project cost (with
contingencies):
Millions Escudos             814.2   313.4    59.9    23.7       50.1  354.2    60.4      6.2    23.4    93.8    13.4       53.8 1,021.4  845.1   1,866.5
Millions US$                  20.9     8.0      1.6     0.6       1.3    9.1      1.5     0.2     0.6      2.4     0.3       1.4    26.2   21.7       47.9
== ===         ==        ==      ==    ==         ==       ==     ==      ==        ==      == s= ===- - -===   ===
% Foreign exchange                    27.8%            28.3%           87.6%              9.3%            80.0%             80.0%         45.3%
/a- Price escalation computed on basis of 1)  separate annual increase rates for local and foreign exchange costs;
2) project completion 9/1981 or 3.5 years from Loan signing;
3)  estimated progress of work per year and corresponding price increase rates;
4)  project cost including the physical unforeseen contingency.
Price escalation percentages 
1978            1979            1980             1981
Local  Foreign  Local Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign
Civil works                      17.0     9.0    15.0    9.0    14.0       8.0    12.0      8.0
Furniture and equipment          13.0     7.5    13.0    7.5    11.0       7.0    10.0      7.0
Consultant architects            17.0     9.0    15.0    9.0    14.0       8.0    12.0      8.0
Technical assistance              7.0     7.0      7.0    7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0
Rate of Exchange: US$1.00 = 39 Escudoc



ANNEX 1
Table 3.2
PORTUGAL
Unit Capital Costs/a and Areas per Student
Areas/    Buildings
Student       & Site  Furniture Equipment Total
Type ofL Facilities             Giuss /b      Works
----12 ---US$ --
Technician Training
Post-Secondary (new)
Academic & Communal            12.1        3,860      250      1,420     5,530
Staff Housing/Unit            100.0       30,770   2,050           -    32,820
Post-Secondary (existing)           -            -        -      2,440     2,440
Teacher Training
Basic & HandicaDped
Academic & Communal             9.4        2,560      160        360     3,080
Integrated Center for Teacher
Training, University of Aveiro
Academic & Communal             8.9        2,420      160        320     2,900
Boarding                       12.6        3,420      220         -      3,640
Staff Housing/Unit             80.0       25,110   1,950          -    27,060
Basic Institutes (330 students)
Academic & Communal            11.8        3,200      220        360     3,780
Staff Housing/Unit            125.0       32,690        -         -    32,690
Basic Institutes (240 students)
Academic & Communal            14.6        3,980      240       430      4,650
Staff Housing/Unit            125.0       32,690       -          -    32,690
Management Training Centers
Academic & Communal            11.7        3,990     860      1,320      6,170
Boarding                       25.0        7,370   1,000          -      8,370
a/ Excluding professional fees and contingencies.
b/ Excluding covered galleries, cost of which is included in cost estimates.



ANNEX 1
Table 3.3
Page 1 of 5
PORTUGAL
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
EXISTING INSTITUTIONSa/
1977           1978                 1979                 1980                 1981
3   4         1 1 2    3  1 4    1   2    3    4    1   2    3    4    1   2    3    4
Design & Construction
1 . Consultant Architects
Selected
2. Design Development
Drawings
3. Bid Documents
4. Final Drawings and
Cost Estimates
5. Advertise and Issue
Bid Documents
6. Receive & Analyze Bids,
Awa rd s
7. Building Construction
Equipment
1. Preliminary Lists                  _ _A
2. Final Lists
3. Specifications and Cost
Estimates
4. Bid Documents
5. Advertise
6. Analyze Bids &                                              MA
Award Contracts
7. Manufacture
8. Delivery& Installation
Staffing
1. Recruitment & Selection
2. Fellowship Period
3. Appointment to Institution
4. Specialists                                        _    _    _          =
Project Appraisal
Negot iations
Loan Signing
Project Completion
Loan Closing
A Bank Approval and/or Review
a/ Technician Training (Santarem and Coimbra)
Teacher Training (Vila Real and Beja)
Commercial Training
Vocational Training



ANNEX 1
Tab le 3. 3
Page 2 of 5
PORTUGAL
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
BASIC CYCLE TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTES
1977           1978                 1979                 1980                 1981
3    4    1   2    3   4    1    2    3    4    1    2   3    4    1   2    3    4
Design & Construction
1. Sites Selected
2. Sites Acquired
3, Consultant Architects
                ~~~~~~Selected
4. Preliminary Drawings
5. Design Development
Drawings
6. Bid Documents
7. Final Drawings and
Cost Estimates
8. Advertise and issue
Bid Documents                                yt             _
9. Receive & Analyze Bids,
Awards                                                               or
10. Building Construction                                                    I  _    _
11. Guarantee Period                                                                                        _
Furniture
1. Preliminary Lists
2. Final Lists
3. Specifications and
Cost Estimates                                _  _T
4. Bid Documents                                        if
5. Advertise& Analyze
Bids, awards
6. Manufacture
7. Delivery & Installation
Equipment
1. Preliminary Lists
2. Final Lists
3. Specifications and Cost
Estimates
4. Bid Doucments
5. Advertise                                   or
6. Analyze Bids &
Award Contracts                                              =Mr
7. Manufacture
8. Delivery & Installation
a                 Staffing
1. Recruitment & Selection
2. Fellowship Period
3. Appointment to Institution
4. Specialists
Project Appraisal  . .
Negotiations
Loan Signing
Project Completion
Loan Closing
A Bank Approval and/or Review
World Bank -18742



ANNEX 1
Table 3. 3
Page 3 of 5
PORTUGAL
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
MANAGEMENT TRAINING CENTERS
1977           1978                1979                 1980                 1981
3   4     1   2   3   4    1    2    3   4    1    2    3   4    1    2    3   4
Design & Construction
1. Sites Selected
2. Sites Acquired
3. Consultant Architects                    _ E
Selected
4. Preliminary Drawings                         _ i
5. Design Development
Drawings
6. Bid Documents                                     _1r
7. Final Drawings and
Cost Estimates
8. Advertise and Issue
Bid Documents
9. Receive & AnalyzeBids,
Awa rd s
10. Building Construction                                                      -          - _    _  _
11. Guarantee Period
Furniture
1 . Preliminary Lists                       mm
2. Final Lists                           |
3. Specifications and                            a mr
Cost Estimatei;
4. Bid Documents
5. Advertise & Analyze                                     m     Mr
Bids, Awards
6. Manufacture
7. Delivery & Installation
Equipment
1 . Preliminary Lists
2. Final Lists
3. Specifications and Cost
Estimates
4. Bid Documents
B. Advertise                                             m
6. Analyze Bids &
Award Contracts
7. Manufacture
8. Delivery & Installation                                                                        _
Staffing
1. Recruitment & Selection
2. Fellowship Period
3. Appointment to Institution
4. Specialists
Project Appraisal                                                                                                  4     A
Negotiations
Loan Signing
Project Completion
Loan Closing
A  Bank Approval and/or Review
World Bank -18743



ANNEX 1
Table 3. 3
Page 4 of 5
PORTUGAL
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PORTO TEACHER TRAINING AND FARO TECHNICIAN TRAINING
1977            1978                1979                1980                 1981
3   4     1   2    3    4    1    2    3   4    1   2    3   4    1   2    3    4
Design & Construction
1. Sites Selected                        T
2. Sites Acquired                          _ 
3. Consultant Architects
Selected
4. Preliminary Drawings
5. Design Development
Drawings
6. Bid Documents                                      _a
7. Final Drawings and
Cost Estimates
8. Advertise and Issue
Bid Documents
9. Receive & Analyze Bids,
Awards
10. Building Construction                                                   .                       _    _ -
11. Guarantee Period
F urniture
1. Preliminary Lists
2. Final Lists
3. Specifications and
Cost Estimates
4. Bid Dovuments
5. Advertise & Analyze
Bids& Awards
6. Manufacture                                                      _         -    _
7. Delivery & Installation
Equipment
1 Preliminary Lists
2. Final Lists
3. Specifications and Cost
Estimates
4. Bid Documents
5. Advertise
6. Analyze Bids &
Award Contracts
7. Manufacture
8. Delivery & Installation
Staffing
1. Recruitment & Selection
2. Fellowship Period
3. Appointment to Institution
4. Specialists
Project Appraisal  .       .
Negotiations __-     .      ._l                  |
Loan Signing
Project Completion
Loan Closing
A Bank Approval and/or Review
World Bank -18744



ANNEX 1
Table 3. 3
PORTUGAL                                                    Page 5 of 5
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
AVEIRO UNIVERSITY AND SETUBAL TECHNICIAN TRAINING
1977           1978                1979                 1980                1981
3   4    1   2    3   4            2   3    4    1   2    3    4    1    2   3    4
Design & Construction
1 . Sites Selected                n      Nor
2. Sites Acquired
3. Consultant Architects
Selected
4. Preliminary Drawings
5. Design Development
Drawings
6. Bid Documents
7. Final Drawings and                                         K_
Cost Estimates
8. Advertise and Issue
Bid Documents
9. Receive & Analyze Bids,
Awa rd s
10. Building Construction                                                       _   _    -    _
11. Guarantee Period
Furniture
1. Preliminary Lists                 _ML 
2. Final Lists
3. Specifications and
Cost Estimates
4. Bid Documents
5. Advertise & Analyze
Bids, Awards
6. Manufacture- -                                                                  --              -
7. Delivery & Installation
Equipment
1. Preliminary Lists
2. Final Lists
3. Specifications and Cost
Estimates
4. Bid Documents
5. Advertise
6. Analyze Bids&                                   |
Award Contracts
7. Manufacture                                               |
8. Delivery & Installation                                                  r 
Staffing
1. Recruitment & Selection                      -   -          -         - I
2. Fellowship Period
3. Appointment to Institution                                                                                ; iiiiiii1 iiii| 
4. Specialists                                                    |
Project Appraisal
Negotiations
Loan Signing
Project Completion
Loan Closing
A Bank Approval and/or Review
World Bank -18744



ANNEX 1
Table 3.4
PORTUGAL
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated       Undisbursed
Calendar Year        Disbursements       Disbursements         Balance
& Semester          Amount  Percent    Amount  Percent   Amount  Percent
1978
First               0.0         0.0%    0.0         0.0%   21.0      100.0%
Second              0.1        0.5%    0.1          0.5%   20.9       99.5%
1979
First               0.4         1.9%    0.5         2.4%   20.5       97.6%
Second              1.3        6.2%    1.8          8.6%   19.2       91.4%
1980
First               3.4        16.2%    5.2        24.8%   15.8       75.2%
Second              5.6       26.6%   10.8         51.4%   10.2       48.6%
1981
First               6.3        30.0%   17.1        81.4%    3.9       18.6%
Second              3.9       18.6%   21.0        100.0%    0.0        0.0%
March 1978






ANNEX 2
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   General Reports & Studies Relating to Education
Portugal: Elements of an Educational Policy in Portugal,
Unesco, Paris, August 1975.
Portugal: Estatisticas da Educacao, 1975, Instituto Nacional
de Estatistica, Lisbon,  i976.
Plano 1977-80, Diagnostico de Situacao e Estrategias de
Desenvolvimento do Sector Educacao, Ministerio da
Educacao e Investigacao Cientifica, Gabinete de
Estudos e Planeamento, March 1977.
Current Economic Position and Prospects of Portugal, IBRD,
July 1, 1975, Report No. 730a-PO.
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Republic of Portugal, The Education and Training System: Issues,
Strategies and Priorities. World Bank Project Identification
Mission Report, March 10, 1^77. Report No. 1545-PO.
Portugal - Education Project Preparation Assistance Mission,
Full Report. Office Memorandum, May 16, 1977.
The Organization of Curriculum Development in Portugal - A
Preliminary Study (four volumes). Ministry of Education
and Scientific Investigation, Bureau of Research and
Planning, March 1977.
C.   Selected Working Papers of the Project
Republic of Portugal: First Education Project, Educational and
Architectural Working Papers. November 1977.






I3RD 13078
C     A                          ONO-OOOROC
0   . X     e      t   j        5   , t              7 do o,, - -CA 
AVRIRO =MR.0DO
IRST EDUCATION PROJECT                    >~~~~~~~~~~~IRC
-~~~~~~~~~~~z~~~-
=RTGA                                   '' -                                     P A  IN
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I g,  1, Ifs   s~        fA
0                           0 0        c        RS
I     MO'ROCC,,1O'P A  IJN
2B                                                                                  C: ii .< / 4 o
t= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 0.z, '1,  , j



