Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2198a-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
April 10, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its 'ontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977                     February 1978
Currency unit  =  Portuguese escudo (Esc)                Esc
$1  -  Ese 38.3                               40.1
Esc 1 =  $0.026                                   0.025
(Floating Exchange Rate)
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report: $1 = Esc 39
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EC              -  European Communities
EFTA            -  European Free Trade Association
EIB             -  European Investment Bank
IMF             -  International Monetary Fund
USAID           -  United States Agency for International
Development
WHO             -  World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Portugal
Amount:             $21 million equivalent
Terms:              15 years, including three years of grace with
interest at 7.5 percent per annum.
Project
Description:       The project's objectives would be:  (i) improving and
expanding management training, initiating programs in tech-
nician training, introducing vocational training in basic
skills for early school leavers, and (ii) introducing
specific programs to upgrade teacher training and improving
curricula. The project includes: studies for defining
Portugal's needs for trained manpower of all types and
levels of specialization up to 1990; for improving the
teaching of science, technology and engineering; and for
determining the ways and means of training health techni-
cians. The project would consist of the construction,
furnishing and equipping of educational and training insti-
tutions throughout the country, and the provision of 33
man-years of technical assistance (specialists) and 113
man-years of fellowships. Annual output from project
institutions is anticipated to be about 2,000 senior- and
middle-level managers, 2,400 technicians, 400 graduates
from the vocational programs, and 1,700 teachers. The
beneficiaries would come mainly from middle- and lower-
income families, except in management training. The proj-
ect faces no special risks. Lack of familiarity of certain
Government departments with Bank procedures in this first
education project may cause initial delays, however, satis-
factory implementation machinery has been established and
should largely reduce this risk.
T his document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
------------ $ million -----------
Local  Foreign  Total   % of Total
1. Management Training                     1.8      1.1      2.9       8.4
2. Technician Training                     7.0      8.2    15.2       44.0
3. Vocational Training                     0.0      0.3      0.3       0.9
4. Teacher Training                        8.4      3.7    12.1       34.9
5. Studies & Technical
Assistance                            0.8      3.3     4.1       11.8
Sub-Total                            18.0    16.6    34.6       100.0
Contingencies                           8.2      5.1    13.3       38.5
TOTAL                                26.2    21.7    47.9
Financing Plan:
------------ $ million -----------
Local  Foreign  Total   % of Total
Bank Loan                               0.0    21.0    21.0        43.8
Bilateral Assistance                    0.0      0.7     0.7        1.5
Government Contribution                26.2      0.0    26.2       54.7
26.2    21.7    47.9       100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
---------- $ million -----------
Bank FY  1979   1980   1981   1982
Annual                                        0.5    4.7   11.9    3.9
Cumulative                                    0.5    5.2   17.1   21.0
Appraisal Report: No. 1807-PO
Date: April 3, 1978



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Portugal, for the equivalent of $21 million to
help finance an education project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum. United
Kingdom and Swedish bilateral assistance agencies would participate in the
financing of the technical assistance component of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Portugal:  An Economy in Transition"
(No. 1408a-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 16, 1977.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        The five years preceding the revolution of April 1974 were years
of rapid economic growth for Portugal. GDP increased at an average rate of
7 percent per annum, with industry and construction growing at 10 percent
and 12.5 percent, respectively. Investment levels were high--21 percent
of GDP on average. The rapid growth in Western Europe contributed to an
increase of 9 percent per annum in Portugal's exports (though nearly 20 per-
cent of the total went to the colonies), while the balance of payments also
benefited from large numbers of tourists and remittances from the huge migrant
labor force (over one million, equivalent to about one-third of Portugal's
labor force). As a result, the balance of payments showed substantial sur-
pluses, with accumulated foreign exchange reserves reaching the high level
of $1.65 billion at the end of 1973, in addition to a stock of gold of about
860 metric tons.
4.        The rapid growth, however, concealed a number of fundamental weak-
nesses. Agricultural output in 1973 was 3.4 percent below the 1968 level,
partly as a result of the emphasis given to industrialization and partly to
the exodus of the rural labor force. By 1973, the poorer 50 percent of house-
holds were receiving only 14 percent of total income, while the top 5 percent
received 40 percent. The social services remained underdeveloped. Economic
power was concentrated in the hands of a small number of powerful companies
1/   Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from that in the report
and recommendation of the President for a Lisbon Region Water Supply
Project (Report No. 2161a-PO, dated March 10, 1978).



-2-
and individuals. The distribution of land ownership was characterized by
large estates, especially in the south of the country. The low unemployment
level (3 percent) was a consequence of massive emigration (about 550,000
during 1970-73) and of a growing colonial army.
Recent Developments
5.        Between the April 1974 Revolution and September 1975, a substantial
transformation of the institutional framework and ownership pattern of the
Portuguese economy took place. The most important changes were (a) the
nationalization of banking, insurance, power, transportation and major indus-
trial groups; (b) comprehensive land reform legislation affecting most of
the land in the central and southern parts of the country; and, (c) direct
measures to redistribute income in favor of workers, through the establishment
of a minimum wage (which has been increased several times), restraints on
upper salary levels and price controls. The overall effect of these changes
was to establish a new and different relationship between management and
labor, which at first resulted in indiscipline, absenteeism and reduced
productivity.
6.        The social unrest and political uncertainties in Portugal resulted
in a GDP decline of 4 percent in 1975. However, during the past two years,
the economy has shown some sign of recovery (significant increase in indus-
trial production and revival of construction activity) and GDP is estimated
to have increased by 5.4 percent in 1976, and by an estimated 6 percent in
1977. One of the main sources of domestic demand expansion was the signif-
icant increase in consumption. This reduced domestic savings to a negative
level in 1975 and to an estimated 7 percent of GDP in 1976. In 1977, however,
there was no increase in consumption, and domestic savings increased to an
estimated 14 percent of GDP. Investment by the private sector stopped almost
completely in 1975. However, after a sharp decline of 45 percent in 1975,
total investment in 1976 increased by 25 percent, due to a strong recovery in
construction and to a largely speculative buildup of inventories of raw
materials and intermediate goods. This recovery continued during 1977 and
investment is estimated to have increased by about 44 percent.
7.        During 1974-76, there was also a deterioration of the fiscal situa-
tion as a result of the subsidies, price controls, higher salaries for civil
servants, expenditure on returnees, increases in social security benefits and
the attempt by the Government to take up some of the slack caused by the
shortfall in private investment. The overall budget deficit rose from $400
million in 1974 to about $1.5 billion, or 9.5 percent of GDP, in 1976. The
overall deficit in 1977 is estimated to be reduced to about $1.4 billion or
8.2 percent of GDP and the current account deficit of the public sector is
expected to be two-thirds of the 1976 level because of an increase in taxes, a
reduction in subsidies as a result of the increases in prices, and because the
deficit of the social security system was reduced by increases in premiums.
The rate of inflation also became a serious problem during this period--about
20 percent per annum in 1974-76--and, despite the moderating trend in wages in
1976 and 1977, an estimated 28-30 percent in 1977.



8.        Portugal's balance of payments has deteriorated sharply since 1974;
the balance of payments' current account dropped, as a result of the unstable
situation in Portugal as well as of the recession in the EC and EFTA countries
and of the loss of colonial markets, from a surplus of about $300 million in
1973 to deficits of about $800 million in 1975 and of $1.2 billion in 1976,
and the deficit is again expected to be about $1.2 billion in 1977. Exports
declined sharply. In constant escudo prices, exports declined by 4 percent in
1974 and by 16 percent in 1975, and increased by 4.3 percent in 1976. Despite
the devaluation of the escudo in February 1977 and other measures to boost
exports (see paragraph 13), an increase of only 4-5 percent is expected for
1977. This is mainly because the buoyancy in domestic demand diverted goods
away from the export market, and capacity constraints of industries turned out
to be far more important. On the other hand, imports in constant escudo
prices increased by 8.4 percent in 1974 and, following a decline of about 26
percent in 1975, they increased by 13 percent in 1976 and are estimated to
have increased by 10 percent in 1977, due to speculative imports and signif-
icant increases in inventories. In addition, receipts from tourism declined
at a rate of 15 percent per annum in nominal dollar terms during 1973-76, and
workers' remittances in 1976 were about 12 percent below the 1973 level. How-
ever, tourism and workers' remittances have recently shown signs of recovery;
tourist earnings are estimated to have increased by 44 percent in 1977, and
workers' remittances by 35 percent.
9.        During this period, Portugal lost almost all of its liquid foreign
exchange reserves. At the end of June 1977, the liquid reserves were down
to $65 million (equivalent to less than one week's imports). However, there
still remains a gold stock of about 768 metric tons valued at $4.4 billion
at market prices ($160 per ounce in November 1977), serving as a safety net,
which Portugal has used as collateral for short-term borrowing; to date, about
one-half has been pledged for this purpose.
10.       The most serious feature of the current economic situation is the
high level of unemployment--12.7 percent of the labor force at the end of
1976 (in total about 450,000 unemployed). High unemployment is a result of
the influx of 500,000 returnees from Angola and Mozambique, a sharp reduction
in emigration abroad, a slowdown in the economic activity in Portugal and
Western Europe, and demobilization of the armed forces. The Government's
intervention during 1974-76 to support many enterprises facing financial
difficulties, together with trade union pressures and legislation against
dismissals, prevented open unemployment from rising to even higher levels but
created widespread underemployment. Such a high rate of unemployment presents
problems to which there may be no quick solutions and which can be improved
upon only in the medium to long-term.
The Government's Response
11.       There are no easy solutions to Portugal's economic problems--a
perilous balance of payments position, large budgetary deficits, severe infla-
tion, and high levels of unemployment. The Government is faced with a dilemma.
Reducing the rate of unemployment will require rapid growth and a substantial
increase in the level of investment but this, unless carefully planned, will



- 4 -
lead to increased inflationary pressures and will worsen the balance of pay-
ments deficit. The Government has taken a number of austerity measures but
so far these have not succeeded in putting the economy on the right course.
Several austerity measures were introduced in late 1975 and early 1976, and
the Soares Government, which came to power in July 1976, immediately committed
itself to further measures. It announced a wide-range austerity program on
February 26, 1977, which was reinforced by a new package on August 25, 1977.
The new Government, which came to power in January 1978, is preparing a new
austerity program.
12.       The main thrust of the economic measures taken by the Government so
far has been to reduce the balance of payments deficit by containing consump-
tion and imports, and to stimulate investment and exports. The Government
has tried to shift resources from consumption to investment by raising the
controlled maximum prices, charging higher prices for public utilities,
reducing subsidies, increasing indirect taxes and social security contri-
butions, and by limiting payroll increases to 15 percent per annum in 1977,
which, when compared to the estimated rate of inflation of 28-30 percent in
1977, implies a substantial decline in real wages and, therefore, in the
purchasing power of workers. A national council to develop a price and
income policy was established in early 1977. On August 25, 1977, the Govern-
ment announced a cut of 10-20 percent in public expenditures and limitations
on new credit, except for exports and export-oriented investments, housing,
and agriculture. To stimulate private savings, interest rates on deposits
in banks were raised to a maximum of about 17 percent. Government efforts to
revive private housing construction will also induce more individual savings,
and decontrolling prices should lead to higher business profits. Although
private and public consumption has not increased in real terms in 1977,
compared with an estimated 6 percent increase in GDP, the level of overall
consumption is still high and the share of savings in GDP is low. The chal-
lenge now facing the Government is to reduce consumption, especially where
it competes with exports, to reduce budget deficits, and to control the rate
of inflation (beyond the unavoidable and corrective impact of the increases
in import prices due to devaluation of the escudo, in indirect taxes and
in utility rates, and of the adjustments in regulated prices).
13.       The measures to contain consumption were an important element
of the strategy to reduce the balance of payments deficit. The Government
has also taken a number of direct measures. To cut imports, import tariffs
were increased in May 1975, surcharges on imports were imposed which have
since been increased, an advance deposit requirement was introduced, quanti-
tative restrictions on certain consumer goods were imposed, and credit for
imports was restricted. The most important measure, however, was the depre-
ciation of the escudo by about 20 percent between December 1975 and February
1977 and the 15 percent devaluation of February 26, 1977. As of August 25,
1977, the escudo was allowed to float against other currencies, with the
Central Bank announcing periodic adjustments (about one percent downwards
per month) in the exchange rate to reflect price changes in Portugal, and
its main trading partners. This depreciation and the devaluation of the
escudo were important steps in restoring some of the price competitiveness
of Portuguese exports. A series of other measures have been taken recently



to encourage exports. These include special credit facilities for exports
at concessionary interest rates, various fiscal incentives to exporters, a
modification in the export insurance scheme to make it more effective, and
the creation of a National Council of Foreign Trade in April 1977. These
measures, together with the Government's efforts to dampen domestic demand,
the return of stable production conditions, the various measures to improve
the financial position of enterprises, and the moderation in wage increases,
should assist in the recovery of Portuguese exports by improving the competi-
tive position of exporters. The Government has also negotiated some trade
concessions for Portuguese exports with the EC and EFTA. For the longer term,
the Portuguese Government formally applied on March 28, 1977, for membership
in the European Economic Community.
14.       From a policy point of view, reducing the rate of unemployment has
been, and will remain, the most difficult of Portugal's objectives to achieve.
Although the Government is still following selectively its earlier approach
of stopping open unemployment from rising to higher levels through direct
assistance in the form of subsidies, loans and guarantees to those enterprises
which are in financial difficulties, but can recover, it is now focussing more
on raising productivity and increasing the level of new investment. To fur-
ther encourage investment from abroad, the Government, in August 1977, revised
and improved the April 1976 Foreign Investment Code. A law defining the role
of public and private sectors has also been passed. The Government has an-
nounced that no further nationalizations are envisaged. In August 1977, the
legislation on compensation for nationalized assets was passed. Three im-
portant laws on labor relations, governing workers' committees, workers' dis-
missals and strikes were also enacted. Furthermore, to direct investment to
the labor-intensive activities, rebates in interest rates for labor-intensive
and export-oriented projects have been introduced. These measures to stimu-
late private investment are encouraging, and should help remove uncertainty
and revive investor confidence. Strenuous efforts are also being undertaken
to strengthen the institutional and managerial capability of the public sector
and to prepare suitable investment programs. Major sources of employment
creation in the immediate future, however, will be in housing, construction
and services.
Tasks Ahead
15.       Although there are clear indications of economic recovery, Portugal's
economy is still adjusting to the vast post-1974 turbulence. Despite a con-
siderable medium- and long-term potential, the economic situation at the end
of 1977 remains serious. The policy measures so far adopted have been in the
right direction and often politically difficult to take, but taken together,
they have not attained the desired reduction in the rate of inflation, the
balance of payments deficit and unemployment. More is therefore needed.
16.       The revival of growth in the Portuguese economy is by no means an
easy task. The process of reconstruction and reform will only be completed
over a period of several years, and the prospects for the medium- and long-
term will largely hinge on the success of short-term stabilization measures.
Achievement of these objectives would only be possible in the context of a



-6-
substantial reduction in consumption and a substantial increase in savings and
investment. The public sector budget deficit would have to be cut to reduce
inflationary pressures and to free resources for private sector investment.
Portugal's situation calls for a growth strategy based on labor-intensive,
export-oriented investment, particularly in the manufacturing industry. Gov-
ernment policies must restore Portugal's competitive position. Most of the
growth in domestic output should be aimed at increasing exports, and domestic
consumption needs to be restrained where it competes with exports for goods.
Immediate measures are needed to get the "price signals" right for exports--a
general reduction in export costs, elimination of the import substitution bias
of the incentive system, consideration of additional export subsidies on a
temporary basis, and raising interest rates which are deeply negative, even
after the significant increases of August 1977. Progressive adjustments in
interest rates to positive real levels would encourage industrial investment
over the longer term and provide incentives for more efficient resource allo-
cation and, in particular, employment-intensive production. Meanwhile, hous-
ing, construction and services will have to serve as a means of absorbing the
unemployed. The attitude of the private sector toward new investment has so
far generally been cautious due to poor financial results and to uncertainties
about Government policies and legislation affecting such critical areas as
labor, compensation, the role of the private sector and foreign investment.
Now that a number of laws have been enacted in these areas, the Government can
favorably influence investment decisions by effective implementation and by
maintaining stable policies, particularly those affecting price incentives.
Decisions on investment projects need to be based on calculations of economic
profitability that involve more sophisticated methodologies than are presently
employed.
17.       The overall growth during 1978 and 1979 will largely be determined
by the new Government's policies. With appropriate economic management and
external assistance, Portugal should be capable of achieving a growth rate
of 3.5-4.0 percent per annum in these two years. If a significant growth in
exports and fixed investment is achieved, and consumption and imports are
reduced further, the economy would have weathered the worst and could look
forward to some increase in per capita consumption in the following years.
Over the longer period 1978-85, Portugal should be able to achieve an income
growth rate of about 5-5.5 percent per annum. This projected GDP growth is
realistic and would largely be achieved through exports of manufactured goods
and the revitalization of the agricultural sector. Portugal, having achieved
growth rates of 9 percent per annum during 1968-73, is capable of reaching
these targets and increasing its exports provided adequate policy measures are
taken in time.
18.       The new Government recognizes the urgency of the situation, and
there are fair prospects of improvements in these directions because, first,
the Government seems committed to introduce the tough measures that are
required, and, second, the country has shed the euphoric and unrealistic
expectations which followed the revolution of April 1974. We propose to
continue to monitor the economic situation closely and to pursue our discus-
sions with the Government with a view to encouraging adequate action in
various areas. The former Government, while focussing on the short-term



- 7 -
economic management, also turned its attention to sectoral policies to lay
the basis for longer-term development and the new Government can now build
upon these efforts (paras. 25-29).
External Assistance
19.       Since the last economic report in March 1977, the Bank has continued
to improve its understanding of the various sectors of the economy. It will
continue to assist the Government in its efforts for restructuring the economy,
and for bringing about the long overdue institutional reforms and the rational-
ization of sectors, which will be necessary preconditions to rapid and more
balanced development in the future.
20.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and long-
term project loans. With gold as collateral, Portugal has obtained about $1
billion as of August 10, 1977, in short-term loans for balance of payments
support from the Bank for International Settlement and European central banks
(mainly the Deutsche Bundesbank). The IMF has so far extended about $290 mil-
lion as gold tranches, oil facilities, compensatory financing, and the first
credit tranche. The Bank has approved $110 million equivalent in loans to the
power, transport and DFC sectors during FY76 and FY77. In addition, the EC,
EIB, EFTA, as well as USAID and other bilateral agencies have committed sig-
nificant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary aid and for long-term
projects. In total, therefore, aid commitments in 1975 equaled $400 million,
and in 1976 over $1 billion. In early 1977 the Portuguese Government obtained
from the US Government a short-term loan of $300 million. In addition, in
the late spring of 1977, under the leadership of the United States, Portugal
obtained a commitment of $750 million in the form of a multi-country aid
package for medium-term financial assistance; many of the agreements for this
assistance are signed, but their disbursements are to a large extent linked to
the negotiations with the IMF on the second standby credit which resumed on
March 29, 1978. Some of the loans are being disbursed. Portugal will con-
tinue to require sizeable external capital inflows in the years ahead, and,
therefore, the Bank's assistance can play a very important role, not only in
providing the urgently-needed foreign exchange for important projects and the
technical assistance needed for the restructuring of the economy, but also
because it can act as a catalyst to help mobilize other sources of financing.
Creditworthiness
21.       It is estimated that public and publicly guaranteed medium- and
long-term debt (outstanding and disbursed) was of the order of $1,437 million
at the end of 1977. The debt service ratio for medium- and long-term debt was
6.8 percent in 1976, and is estimated to be about 8 percent in 1977. As has
been mentioned before (para. 9), Portugal is using its gold stock as security
for short-term borrowing purposes. Based on reasonable assumptions concerning
export growth, a substantial scale of borrowing, and credit terms, Portugal's
debt service ratio (public) is not likely to go much beyond 18-20 percent by



- 8 -
the early 1980s. In the light of these facts, the efforts made by the Govern-
ment, and the prospects for growth, and on the assumption that the new Govern-
ment will continue financial stabilization policies, Portugal can be considered
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
22.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and was concentrated in the power sector, in line with Government
priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing industry.
Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three thermal and two hydro-
electric projects, which were successfully completed to meet the country's
increasing power requirements.
23.       The turbulent events of the more recent past and the ensuing dis-
location and exodus of managerial talent, high-level technicians and capital,
have deprived Portugal's economy of some of its most vital elements. Moreover
the transition into an open political system has revealed social and economic
weaknesses which are unusual for a high-income developing country. The former
Government has been aware of these weaknesses, and once it had brought about
some degree of social and political peace and stability, it addressed itself
to the task of tackling these problems by restructuring the economy and the
social services, and by carrying out the wide institutional reforms required
for rapid transformation. The dual task of facing the inherited short-term
problems and restructuring the country for economic integration within Europe
will require far-reaching efforts from the Government and the people of
Portugal. Meanwhile, to overcome pressing short-term economic problems and
to eliminate the structural deficiencies without postponing developmental
efforts, Portugal will continue to require sizeable external assistance, both
financial and technical, in the years ahead.
24.       The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs by supporting projects in
rapid succession, and has been assisting the Government in economic and sector
work. The proposed loan, which would be the first for education in Portugal,
would finance the Bank's tenth project in that country, and the fifth since
the resumption of lending in 1976. At that time, demand for power had out-
stripped supply once again and the Bank selected as its first new operation a
sixth project in this familiar sector. A loan to finance a portion of Elec-
tricidade de Portugal's investment program for 1976-86 was approved on June
24, 1976. Three further operations followed: a loan for a highway project,
involving maintenance and construction, preparation of a transport master
plan, a railway rehabilitation plan and a road investment plan; a loan to the
Banco de Fomento Nacional for industrial finance; and a loan for a water
supply project to meet demand in the Lisbon region, were approved on October
19, 1976, May 24, 1977 and March 28, 1978, respectively. Total Bank loans now
amount to $207.5 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
as of February 28, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 9 -
25.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the Government in reviewing policy and management
issues. Reviews of the water supply (together with WHO) and the education
sectors were carried out and were discussed with the Government in March 1977.
Agriculture and manufacturing export industries were also studied, and were
reviewed with the Government in November 1977. The report entitled "Manufac-
turing Export Industries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on January 13, 1978, and the report entitled "Portugal-
Agricultural Sector Survey" (No. 1689b-PO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on Mlarchi24, 1978.
26.       In the light of the sector discussions mentioned above, it is
intended that FY78 lending be directed by the Bank toward agriculture, in
addition to the recently approved water supply project and the proposed educa-
tion project. In education, our main objectives at this time are management
and technician training to serve industry's future needs, and better teacher
training to improve the quality of education. In agriculture, we intend to
assist Government's efforts in revitalizing fisheries and to back its major
thrust for stimulating on-farm and livestock development. In industry, where
the Bank's next operation is scheduled for FY79, the focus will be on direct
lending to selected industries that are expected to play a major role in
Portugal's development programs, and to the extent possible, to small- and
medium-size enterprises, as they resurface after difficult years. Employment
creation, export promotion, and structural reform have been identified as key
objectives of Bank assistance to the industrial sector. The Bank's involve-
ment in these major sectors is intended to assist the Government in strength-
ening its project selection and evaluation techniques, and in linking sector
policies closely with the overall economic objectives of the country.
27.       Thus, essentially through its involvement in agriculture, industry,
education, highways, and water supply, the Bank has mounted a substantial
effort aimed at:
(i) easing the immediate foreign exchange constraint;
(ii) improving the longer-term balance of payments situation
by supporting projects aimed at export expansion and
selected import substitution;
(iii) financing increased public investment especially in
previously neglected social areas; and
(iv) supporting Government efforts toward institutional and policy
reform needed to restructure the economy and social services.
28.       Sizeable and timely long-term external assistance is essential if
Portugal is to be able to deal successfully with the many problems that con-
front its economy. It is the Bank's objective to contribute to this effort
while providing advice on developing the new institutions and reforming
old ones, an institutional effort which is indispensable if Portugal is
to achieve its overall long-term economic objectives.



- 10 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Educational Strategy and the Present System
29.       The Ministry of Education and Culture administers a formal education
and training system which, except for secondary level schools, is quantita-
tively adequate by European standards; however the quality of education is
generally low and persistent efforts would be required to improve it. The
extremely high percentage of over-age pupils (varying between 30 percent and
50 percent per cycle) and repeater rates (14 percent to 25 percent) contribute
to a costly inefficiency; this is compounded by inadequate professional prep-
aration of teachers, uncoordinated curricula development, ill-equipped schools
and uneven distribution of education and training opportunities as evidenced
by the 30 percent rate of illiteracy. Many of these conditions result from
inadequate administration during the period of the short-term post-revolutionary
governments.
30.       Planning for a major reform was initiated in 1973.  The principal
objectives were to transform the rigid traditional education system--biased
towards part of the population--into a modern more egalitarian system. These
objectives were to be achieved through expanding and increasing the length of
compulsory education, and improving physical facilities and curricula. Heavy
emphasis was to be given to preparing the student for a working life. The
intervention of the revolution of April 1974 and the succession of many govern-
ments in the wake of the revolution, however, prevented the implementation of
these plans. During this period the social, economic and political pressures
caused major disruptions in the management of the overall system of education,
and in the planning and research activities within the Ministry of Education.
Inefficiency in routine procedures and a reluctance to formulate policies also
hampered the administration and daily operation of a school system involving
about 1.7 million pupils and over 85,000 teachers. Teacher training and
physical facilities have not kept abreast of the increasing enrollments.
Education Development Strategy
31.       The current education policies are aimed at introducing substantial
improvements in the education system, including restructuring, achieving
equity in the allocation of its benefits and ensuring rational use of its
resources, and making a maximum effort to meet the increased and diversified
demand for skills. The Ministry of Education is now able to give closer
attention to planning and to programming action to reach these objectives.
Priority is being given at present to improving quality at all levels, estab-
lishing six years of compulsory schooling, providing adequate school facili-
ties to cater to expanding post-primary enrollments, and meeting manpower
demands by providing a variety of training opportunities for those leaving the
educational system.
32.       Quality of Education.  The education system needs major improvements
to achieve efficiency. Better teacher training and curricula development are



- 11 -
important requirements toward this end. Teacher training has not kept pace
with recent developments and therefore requires considerable upgrading. Cur-
ricula development and evaluation are done unsystematically and without coor-
dination, and this has in many instances resulted in low quality. Plans have
recently been defined for upgrading primary and secondary teacher training and
for developing school curricula through a network of centers. These plans
involve the encouragement of university-level training for teachers, rational-
ization of the primary teacher training network of institutions, with the
replacement of inadequate facilities by new and more modern regional training
centers, and the provision of inservice training for all teachers. Improvement
of the quality of specialized teachers of handicapped children is also planned.
This is an area that was hitherto neglected and most of the 380,000 children
who suffer from physical or mental handicaps are not trained at all at the
present time, and the relatively few who are in assistance programs are taught
by inadequately trained teachers.
33.       Manpower Requirements.  Achieving competitiveness and viability in
many sectors of the Portuguese economy will require efficient use of human
resources. For this purpose, the education and training system will have to
be coordinated with the manpower requirements of the economy. Measures would
be required to permit both long-term adjustment and short-term responsiveness
in education and training. Long-term adjustment would be enhanced by determin-
ing the needs of the economy for various levels of skills and initiating the
required changes in education and training accordingly. Short-term needs
would be met by implementing the action plans already prepared in many areas.
Among these needs, technician training for industry and agriculture, and voca-
tional training of young school leavers are particularly important. Recent
social and economic changes have created new needs and imposed new demands.
In this connection, more manpower and special skills are called for in areas
such as public health and in industrial management. Managerial staff require-
ments in the economy, and particularly for the growing industrial sector, have
been exacerbated by the emigration of many experienced, high-level personnel
in the wake of the 1974 Revolution (paras. 5 and 23). Intensive managerial
training is therefore urgently required to improve the management of small-
and medium-size enterprises, which constitute the backbone of Portugal's
industry. The above have been identified as areas which require immediate
attention. Other areas such as science, engineering and technology teaching
in universities and paramedical technician training in appropriate institutes
will have to be studied. Science, engineering and technology teaching is
currently inefficient due to inadequate equipment and outdated curricula;
universities are unable to meet the demands of the economy for adequately
trained manpower. A developing public health sector requires properly trained
paramedical personnel. At present, due to the total absence of such training,
paramedical functions are carried out either by under-qualified people, or by
doctors at a high cost to the economy.
34.       A high priority area is the development of an effective system of
adult education to provide rudimentary skill training to the large number of
unemployed adults to increase their employability. The Government has recently
obtained assistance from the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)
in the conduct of a study to determine how the existing adult education system
can be improved and expanded.



- 12 -
35.       In 1974 women constituted a high 26 percent of the working popula-
tion. This figure increased in subsequent years because large wage increases
attracted many skilled women, previously in home occupations, back to the
labor market. The education and training system provides equal opportunities
for women, who are well represented in most professions. The institutions to
be financed by the proposed loan are expected to have nearly equal enrollments
of women and men, except technical training, where female enrollment is
expected to be lower, and in teacher training, where it is expected to be
substantially higher.
Educational Finance
36.       Educational expenditures as a proportion of GDP have been rising
steadily from a low 2 percent (Esc. 3.6 billion or $131 million) in 1971 to
an average 4 percent in 1975-77. Correspondingly, as a proportion of the
Government budget, education has increased from a low 11 percent in 1971 to
an average 16 percent during 1975-77, which is comparable to other European
countries. However, Portugal has in recent years been spending more on
recurrent costs and less on investment. In 1976 budgeted investment expendi-
tures were about $77 million while recurrent expenditures were about $625
million. Recurrent cost increases have been due largely to a 100 percent
upward salary adjustment for teachers since 1974. Projections based on
government development strategies suggest an annual recurrent cost increase
of about 6 percent in real terms, and an average annual capital investment
of approximately $80 million in real terms in the period 1978-1985. The total
of anticipated capital and recurrent expenditures on education in 1985 would
represent a little over 4 percent of GDP.
The Bank's Role in the Education Sector
37.       During the period of reconstruction of the education system follow-
ing the two years of political unrest and interventions referred to in para.
30 above, the Government has turned to external agencies for assistance in
planning, technical know-how and financial support. The proposed project
would be the first Bank financed education project in Portugal, but it does
not, by itself, represent a true measure of the Bank's involvement in the
education and training sector of Portugal. Beginning in August 1976, succes-
sive Bank missions have assisted the Government in the assessment of the edu-
cation and training system as a whole, have recommended a number of specific
studies to be conducted to provide rational bases for necessary policy deci-
sions, have advised on educational planning techniques, have recommended
specific alternative planning models, and have helped to define priorities
for the development of the sector, in order to improve the quality and range
of educational opportunities to be made available to the Portuguese popula-
tion, and to respond appropriately to the manpower needs of the economy.
38.       In large part as a result of Bank discussions, the Government has
already taken key policy decisions to: (i) review the planning and research
functions of the Ministry of Education; (ii) examine presently uncoordinated
activities in curriculum development, evaluation, and production; (iii)
redistribute the numbers allowed to enter post-secondary level institutions;
(iv) reform and upgrade the primary teacher training system to post-secondary
level; (v) examine the structure of the school system; (vi) introduce post-
secondary level technician training; and (vii) establish pilot skills training



- 13 -
programs for early school leavers in an effort to reduce unemployment among
this group. Many of the studies recommended by the Bank have been initiated
or re-activated, often with external assistance, particularly in the areas of
adult literacy and skills training, curriculum development, media and instruc-
tional materials, and teacher training. In order to make effective use of
these studies and to modernize the educational system, the Portuguese Govern-
ment will continue to require substantial technical and financial assistance.
The Government has indicated its desire for further Bank support in the
education sector.
39.       Because of the various studies that are underway and the policy
decisions that must be deferred until the completion of these studies, the
proposed project does not include certain items of high priority that might
otherwise have been considered: adult education; more substantial expansion
of technician training; and an expansion of an improved and restructured
primary and secondary schools system. After the studies have been completed
and the necessary policy decisions have been taken, Bank guidance and assis-
tance may be directed also to such fields as educational technology, univer-
sity science, engineering and technology education, paramedical training,
vocational and agricultural training. The proposed project concentrates on
areas of high priority where action programs are essentially ready, namely,
the financing of new programs in management and technician training, voca-
tional training and teacher training, and would thus allow the Bank to make a
significant contribution to the improvement of the Portuguese education and
training system.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
40.       The project was identified by Bank missions in August and in
November/December 1976. Preparation assistance was provided to the Govern-
ment during a Bank mission in March/April 1977, and the project was appraised
in June/July 1977. Negotiations took place in Washington from January 20 to
25, 1978. The management training component was appraised in February and
negotiated in March 1978. The Portuguese delegation was led by Dr. Antonio
dos Santos Labisa, Advisor, Bank of Portugal, and included representatives of
the Ministry of Finance and Planning, and of the Ministry of Education and
Culture. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Education Project, Republic of
Portugal" (No. 1807-PO) dated April 3, 1978, is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and project are listed
in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
41.       The project is designed to assist the Government in priority areas
of the education system: (i) training manpower to help meet the needs of the
economy, and, (ii) improving the quality and efficiency of education. The
project would include a study to determine the nation's manpower needs up to



- 14 -
vu, so that the educational and training system can be closely aligned with
those needs. Managerial training for industry and public administration and
technician training for the industry would be provided through appropriate
programs to be implemented under this project. Vocational training for
unemployed school leavers in urban areas to train them in broad basic skills
would also be provided. The quality and efficiency of education would be
improved through better teacher training and appropriate curriculum develop-
ment. Secondary school teachers would be offered university-level education
programs, and primary (including preparatory) school teachers would be trained
in more modern institutions and under improved programs. At both levels,
in-service training would become a prominent feature. In addition, special
attention would be given to training teachers of handicapped children.
Finally, the project would involve the installation of a curriculum develop-
ment network to replace the present fragmented system.
Project Description
42.       The project would consist of the following components:
(i) Manpower Training for the Economy
43.       Managerial Training.  The management training capability of the
training institute in the Ministry of Industry and Technology would be improved
and expanded to provide a well-trained body of managers which is critical to
Portugal's economic development. The target group would be the more than
20,000 senior- and middle-level managers and supervisors/foremen in public and
private enterprises. The proposed loan would help finance construction and
equipping of two purpose-designed training centers, one in Lisbon and one in
Porto. No such centers now exist. Their combined capacity would be 400 places,
for an output of 2,000 persons a year, beginning in 1981. Concurrently, assis-
tance would be provided towards the planned restructuring of the institute
responsible for management training, to reinforce the training staff, to train
instructors, to initiate training in new fields, and to develop training
programs, including case studies, and teaching methodology. The proposed new
structure of the management training institute will be submitted to the Bank
for comments by December 31, 1978 (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
44.       Technician Training.  Current technician training in Portugal is in-
sufficient, and in certain areas non-existent, and technician functions are in-
adequately carried out by engineers, or by expatriates. The Government intends
to redress this situation by developing post secondary technician training.
In support of this policy, the proposed loan would finance: (a) buildings,
furniture and equipment for two new institutes. These institutes would offer
training in industrial and fish technologies, and in middle management, to a
combined enrollment of about 2,130 men and women; (b) equipment and a small
amount of construction and furniture to convert two existing agricultural
institutes into institutes offering training in food processing and food
production, with an enrollment of 960; (c) supplementary equipment for three



- 15 -
existing commercial institutes serving 2,900 students; and (d) related tech-
nical assistance. The construction of new institutes would fill the existing
gap in such schools, and the conversion of old schools would permit training
in these new technologies at substantial savings in building costs. Efficiency
in commercial institutes would be increased through providing adequate equip-
ment. New areas of training would be developed with the help of technical
assistance. The institutes would develop and maintain the close contacts with
employers which are necessary to assure the relevance of instructional programs
and the placement of graduates. The institutes would also provide upgrading
training during the evening hours for employed technicians. The Government
has agreed that a follow-up system to trace graduate placement and performance
would be developed and made operational by the time the first class graduates
(Schedule 2, Part I(1) of the Loan Agreement). All full-time teachers in the
industrial and food processing technologies would become interns for 6-12
weeks in participating industrial concerns.
45.       Basic Skill Training.  Vocational training would be provided for
unemployed school leavers to help implement the Government's policy to reduce
unemployment among early school leavers. The proposed loan would finance
urgently needed supplemental equipment for important pilot programs to provide
broad basic skills training for 15-16 year old school leavers who are currently
not elig4ble for admission into adult vocational training programs. The
Government has agreed that these prototype programs would be evaluated within
one year following the graduation of the first class (Schedule 2, Part I(2) of
the Loan Agreement). The five pilot regional training centers involved in the
pilot programs would have a combined annual output of 420 from ten-month
preapprentice training programs. The training programs, available to females
as well as males and utilizing unused capacity and staff in existing adult
vocational training centers, would consist of basic skills training, including
electricity, welding and light metal fabrication, woodworking and painting,
and plumbing. If the evaluation of this pilot scheme is favorable, similar
training could be extended throughout the country. It would serve to prepare
school leavers for employment and provide needed skills, principally in
building maintenance and in the construction industry. The Government
would assign staff sufficiently in advance of the opening date to modify the
existing adult syllabi and shopwork job sheets to the new target group and to
the shorter training period.
(ii) Measures for Improving Quality in General Education
46.       University Training for School Teachers.  Preparatory and secondary
pre-service teacher training has been almost totally neglected in Portugal.
While three newly established universities are beginning to offer regular pro-
fessional courses in these areas, most of the students are full-time teachers.
The quality of teacher training could be substantially upgraded by extending
university level teac"er education also to those who wish to become teachers.
For this purpose, the Ministry of Education intends to establish an experi-
mental integrated center for teacher training at the University of Aveiro,
offering university-level teacher training courses to prospective pre-primary,
primary, preparatory and secondary teachers. Facilities would be provided for
nearly 1,000 students in preservice courses of varying length, and for 90



- 16 -
teachers in full-time and about 3,000 teachers in part-time in-service courses.
The Government has submitted to the Bank a master development plan indicating
projected enrollments, disciplines of study, and tentative physical layout.
The programs would embody the latest techniques of teacher training. The Gov-
ernment has agreed that appropriately experienced and trained staff would be
appointed to the University, and that an evaluation of each type of training
program would be undertaken and the results forwarded to the Bank by December
1985 (Schedule 2, Paragraph III, D and Part T(3), of the Loan Agreement.)
47.       Training for Primary and Preparatory Teachers.  To ensure critically
needed quality improvement within the reorganized and upgraded teacher train-
ing sector, the project would provide for: (a) replacement through construc-
tion, furnishing and equipment of five existing primary teacher training
institutes, which are unsuitable for their purpose and obsolete; (b) equipment
in another two existing primary teacher training institutes to upgrade teach-
ing methods; and (c) related technical assistance. The three-year pre-service
training programs would be upgraded to the post-secondary level, thus provid-
ing better education for about 1,620 trainees annually in the project institu-
tions. In addition, all project institutions would provide one year full-time
in-service courses for about 400 teachers in such fields as school adminis-
tration, adult education, remedial teaching and upgrading of surplus primary
teachers to teach lower secondary level mathematics and science. Provision of
staff and equipment has also been made for each institute to conduct weekly ad
hoc in-service training so that about 12,000 teachers may benefit annually.
New curricula would be introduced in all institutions to provide an appropriate
and currently lacking balance between pedagogy, practical teaching and academic
subjects, and to emphasize practical training. A special feature would be the
provision of a well-equipped library, a multi-media resource center and a
practical workshop for the production of simple teaching-learning materials.
These facilities and modern rooms and equipment for science, art, music,
physical education, child observation and teaching practice, would ensure a
more practically-oriented training.
48.       Training of Teacher Trainers.  As no opportunities have existed in
Portugal for the professional preparation of teacher trainers, the 200 trainers
required for these teacher training institutes would be selected and given an
initial intensive summer program in teacher preparation in 1978. In order to
fill this obvious gap for the future, the Government would establish a post-
graduate pedagogical program at a university to be selected. Agreement has
been reached with the Government that suitably qualified and experienced
teachers in sufficient numbers would be recruited, selected and appropriately
trained at least three months prior to the opening date of each project
institution (Schedule 2, Paragraph III, D, and Annex to Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement).
49.       Training for Teachers of Handicapped Children.  In response to the
serious lack of training facilities for teachers of the estimated 380,000
children with some form of handicap, about 180 teachers would be enrolled in
a two-year special education program at a teacher training institute to be



- 17 -
constructed at Porto. The institute would be equipped with modern teaching
materials and specialized laboratories. Special courses would be offered
in learning difficulties, audio and speech handicaps, visual disorders,
mental deficiencies and motor and physical handicaps. The institute would
also offer in-service training. Curricula and specialized equipment lists
are being prepared with bilateral assistance. The Government would provide
suitably experienced teachers of handicapped children to staff the program
(Schedule 2, Paragraph III, D, and Annex to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement).
50.       Curriculum Development.  In view of the presently fragmented approach
to curriculum review and production, it is essential that a national network be
established for curriculum project design and development, evaluation, plan-
ning, management and production. This would be an indispensable complement to
teacher training in achieving the expected quality improvements in the educa-
tion system. The Ministry of Education has prepared a sound planning document
for this purpose. To ensure the adoption of the latest techniques in curri-
culum development, the proposed loan would finance technical assistance and
fellowships.
(iii) Studies
51.       Health Technicians.  There is no formal education of paramedical
technicians in Portugal, despite the shortage of such skills and the fact
that a significant portion of health care can be delivered at relatively low
cost through paramedical personnel. The Government intends to initiate this
type of training. A study of the demand for training in speech, hearing and
sight therapy, and in other areas of specialization would have to be under-
taken as a first step. If warranted, an engineering study would follow.
52.       Teaching of Science, Engineering and Technology.  Because of tradi-
tional teaching methods and insufficient laboratories or practical equipment,
the teaching of science, engineering and technology in universities is
ineffective and, in the case of science, not in demand, although adequately
trained manpower with a science background is sorely needed in the economy. A
second feasibility study would be undertaken to study methods of upgrading the
teaching of science, engineering, and technology, in universities. The study
would investigate upgrading curricula, equipment, laboratory space and staff
training in universities, and would prepare appropriate standards of accommo-
dation and lists of equipment.
53.       Manpower Planning.  Most importantly, as part of the Government's
efforts to adjust education and training programs to better meet the nation's
manpower requirements, the Government would initiate a study not later than
December 1, 1978, to determine Portugal's needs for trained manpower in all
major occupational categories up to 1990, and to assess the current and
planned sources and amounts of such manpower to be produced within this
period. This would enable the Government to review the orientation of the
education and training system, particularly adult education and basic skills
training. The findings of the study, together with a plan for improving
adult education and basic skills training, would be made available to the
Bank for comments by November 30, 1979 (Schedule 2, Paragraph II Part G(3)



- 18 -
of the Loan Agreement), within the framework of the on-going dialogue be-
tween the Ministry of Education and the Bank on sector policies (para. 61).
(iv) Technical Assistance and Fellowships
54.       About 33 man-years of experts for technical assistance and for
studies and about 113 man-years of fellowships for the components described in
paragraphs 43 to 53 above, would be provided under the project to achieve the
primary objective of institution-building. In the present state of transi-
tion, considerable impetus and innovation is possible through well-coordinated
and timely assistance in the areas of priority need which have been outlined
in the preceding paragraphs. The Government has agreed to the recruitment of
specialists and to the provision of fellowships according to a schedule accept-
able to the Bank (Schedule 2, Paragraph III E of the draft Loan Agreement).
The average foreign exchange cost of technical assistance is estimated at
$60,000 per man-year.
Project Cost and Financing
55.       The total project cost, net of duties and taxes but including con-
tingencies, is estimated at $47.9 million, with a foreign exchange component
of $21.7 million or 45 percent. The proposed loan of $21 million, represent-
ing 97 percent of estimated foreign exchange cost, would finance 44 percent
of the total cost. United Kingdom and Swedish bilateral aid agencies would
provide technical assistance of about $0.6 million and $0.1 million equivalent
respectively, corresponding together to 3 percent of the total foreign exchange
cost of the project.
56.       When the project is fully operational, the annual recurrent costs
of the project institutions, other than the management training centers, would
be about US$7 million or about 1.2 percent of the projected public recurrent
expenditure for education in 1985. Recurrent costs of about $1 million for
the management training centers would be met by the Ministry of Industry and
Technology. Capital costs and areas per student compare satisfactorily with
those for similar institutions in recent Bank projects.
Implementation
57.       A project coordinator and deputy coordinator in the Ministry of
Education, with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, have been appointed and
would be responsible for overall project implementation and to coordinate
with the Bank. The coordinator would oversee the carrying out of the project
by a working group of educators, architects and engineers set up under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. An implementation team, consisting
of three executives and supporting staff, would be responsible in the Ministry
of Industry for implementation of the management training component, in close
cooperation with the project coordinator's office. Architects have been
appointed for project institutions except the management training centers.
The appointment of architects for the management training component is a con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 5.01 of the Loan Agree-
ment). The acquisition of legal title or of rights of access to suitable



- 19 -
sites for all project institutions, except the Lisbon and Porto management
training centers, has been substantially completed. Progress on acquisition
of the Lisbon and Porto sites is a condition of disbursement for the manage-
ment training component (Schedule 1, Paragraph 4 of the Loan Agreement). The
project would be implemented over a period of about four years.
Procurement
58.       Civil works contracts (amounting to $28.9 million including contin-
gencies) would be awarded, on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) except for civil works items estimated to cost less than US$1.5 million
equivalent each and subject to prior Bank approval. Contracts for the latter
construction items would be awarded under normal government procedures which
are satisfactory to the Bank and do not exclude foreign bidders. It is
expected that most if not all civil works contracts would be awarded to
Portuguese firms. Detailed lists and specifications of furniture and equip-
ment would be presented to the Bank for review and approval prior to procure-
ment. To the extent possible, equipment and furniture items (amounting to
$12.6 million including contingencies) would be grouped, in large packages to
permit bulk procurement. Contracts for equipment (amounting to $10.4 million)
would be awarded under ICB, except for contracts estimated to cost less than
$50,000, inexpensive items which must be compatible with other equipment
procured under ICB and items of such specialized nature that ICB would not be
practical. These items, which would not exceed an aggregate total of $1.8
million equivalent, representing about 17 percent of the total cost of equip-
ment, would be procured under normal government procurement procedures, which
are satisfactory to the Bank. Because of the small amount ($2.2 million) of
furniture in the project, furniture would be procured under local competitive
bidding procedures which do not exclude foreign bidders; the quality and
capacity of the local industry are satisfactory. For the purpose of comparing
foreign and local bids under ICB, local manufacturers of equipment would be
allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of custom duties
applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of CIF price, whichever is
lower.
Disbursements
59.       Disbursements are expected to be made over a period of about 3.5
years, on the basis of (i) 30 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditure for imported vehicles and equipment,
100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory (excluding taxes and duties) on
locally manufactured equipment, and 80 percent of local expenditures for
locally procured imported equipment; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for imported furniture, 30 percent of expenditure for locally manufactured
furniture, and 85 percent of expenditures for locally procured imported
furniture; and (iv) 80 percent of total expenditures for technical assistance.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
60.       The project would be instrumental in initiating the urgently needed
improvement in the quality of education and its cost-effectiveness by provid-
ing modern well-equipped training facilities for teachers, managers, techni-
cians and unemployed youths. It would provide to the economy the well-trained
senior- and middle-level managers (2,000 per year) who are in very short
supply and urgently needed to improve the competitiveness of Portugal's indus-
try, especially in export markets. High-level, practically-oriented techni-
cians trained in project institutions (2,400 per year) would be increasingly
required in the early 1980s to work in the productive sectors of industry,
agriculture, and construction. It is expected that the beneficiaries of the
project (except for the management training component) would come mainly from
middle- and lower-income families.
61.       However, the benefits of the project cannot be measured only in
terms of the specific numbers of persons who would be educated and trained
in project institutions. Substantial and immediate benefits of the project
lie most importantly in its support of the institution-building efforts of
progressive Portuguese planners and educators, and of the Government in their
efforts to fill crippling gaps in the largely outmoded education system,
especially by initiating a much needed, well-organized system of management
and technician training, by reorganizing and building up a comprehensive
curriculum development network, by re-structuring the administration of
teacher training and by revitalizing the planning activities of the Ministry
of Education. Furthermore, the dialogue already established with the Bank has
brought to the Government a clearer realization of the need to develop alter-
native plans and strategies and to prepare projects thoroughly, in accordance
with satisfactory and economic norms and standards. This should provide the
basis for a continuing dialogue with the Government on the cost-effective
development of the education sector.
62.       The project faces no special risks although its timely implementa-
tion will depend on the ability of various Government agencies to comply with
project execution schedules. A lack of familiarity of certain Government
departments with Bank procedures in this first education project may cause
initial delays; however, satisfactory implementation machinery has been estab-
lished and should largely reduce this risk (para. 57). Job opportunities for
engineers and technicians are inter-related. In the past, an area of risk has
been the inability of the Government to curtail enrollments in engineering
faculties sufficiently to ensure that engineers who are trained at higher cost
are not employed in technician jobs. However, following discussions with the
Bank, the Government has imposed intake quotas and entry exams to engineering
schools. In 1977/78, new enrollments were 30 percent of that in the 1976/77
academic year.   The Government is confident that proper coordination with
industrial advisory committees would adequately deal with this problem, should
the question arise again.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The appointment of architects to design the management training centers
is an additional condition of the effectiveness of the loan (Section 5.01 of
the Loan Agreement). Satisfactory progress in the acquisition of sites for
the management training centers is a condition of disbursement of the loan
proceeds allocated to the management training component (Schedule 1, Paragraph
4 of the Loan Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                              by I. P. M. Cargill
April 10, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
ANNXX I
TABLE 3A                                                Page 1 of 4
PORTUGAL             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
_______________                                    PORTUGAL                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        92.1 M1ST RECENT
AGRIC.      41.7                         1960       1970   ESTIMATE            GREECE          ITALY           SPAIN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      360.0'    950.0'  1690.0'                1360.0       1910.0'      1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)              9.0        9.1        9.7 /a              8.8         53.7        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         98.0       99.0     105.0 /a              67.0        178.0        67.o
PER SD. K'1. AGRICULTURAL LAND        186.0      211.0     233.0 /a              96.0       266.0        105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           24.0       21.1       19.2                18.1         18.6        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)            10.8       10.4       10.5                 8.0          9.7         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          77.5       58.0       37.9                29.6        29.6         27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        62.3        66.1       68.7                70.9        71.9         70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 1.6        1.5        1.5                 1.0          1.3         1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (0)
TOTAL                                   0.7        0.1        0.9                 0,5          0.8         1.1
URBAN                                   1.4        1.8         ..                 1.5          0.8         2.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            22.7       26.9          ..                62.6        51.5        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         29.2       28.5       27.3                24.9        24.4         27.8
15 TO"64 YEARS                        62.8       61.8        62.5                64.0        65.2         627.
65 YEARS AND OVER                       8.0        9.7       10.2                11.1         10.4         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.6        0.6        0.6                  0.6         0.5         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0 /a    i.i /a    1.o /b                             0.9 /a      1.1 /a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..         . .        . .                  ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           3400.0    3300.0   3600    A                   ..    19600.0    11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)           42.6       29.2 /b   23 .4LAas               ..        19.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)              ..        2.6       12.7 /A                           3.1         1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTIDN
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         ..         ..                   ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         .-         ..
LOWEST  201 OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         ..         ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         ..         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..          ..         . .                 . .         .
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS              ..         . .        . .                 . .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               1180.O/b,C1120,0 /C 900.0 /d               620.0        550.0       740.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          1430.50Idd10900 Td 870.07                 1140.0        470.0 /b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             1R90OL-I70.0-         170. 0              160.0         90.0       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)          107.0      118.0      118.0 a             116.0        126.0       107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                77.0       85.0       85.0 /f             99.0        100.0        81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           33.0       40.0         ..                52.0/a       42.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               5.2 /e    3.4         ,2.2                  ..         1.0         0.9
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       131.0       98.o      116.o               110.0        110.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       20.0       57.0       49.0  a             70.0        6o.o         57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               13.0       13.0       11.0                12.0         13.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                       46.0       32.0      40.0                 20.0        26.0         20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  62.0          ..      70.0                 82.0        97.0        94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  1.0        0.8 L        ..                  ..e
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                        71.0 If   65.5           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   40.5       64.2                    ..              .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     27.4         ..          ..                  ..
CONSUMAPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           95.0      14,2.0    174.0                 111.0       218.0        214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            17.0       54.0       98.0                 26.0       190.0         71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            362.0      924.0    1236 0                1072.0      2262.0       1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 2.5         5.1           ,                1.6          5.3         5.8
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 23 -
Page 2 of 4
onless otheriae noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for most Recent Estimate between
1973 end 1975.
* GNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlae methodology (1974-76 bais).
00 Due to enigratlon population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase
SOC  Spain has been selected aa an objective country because of its topology end it seams likely that, should Protugal manage to attain the level of
per capita incone of Spain, the structure of the Portuguese economy would show siilarities with that of Spain.
PORTUGAL    1960    /a  Ratio of population onder 15 and 65  nd ever to total labor force;    /b  1962;    /c  Registered, including phyaicians
practing dentistry;    /d  Including easistnt nurses;    /s  1965;   7'f  Inside only.
1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Excluding unemployed;    /c  Registered, including
physicians practicing dentistry;    /d  Including asaistent nurses;   -ls  Total,  rbhan and rural.
MOST RECENT ESTOMATE:    /a  1976;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  Excluding unemployed;
/d  Including physicians practicing dentistry;    /e  Hospital personnel, including of midwives sod assistant
nurses;    /f  1969-71 average;    /A  Disrupted enrollnent due to political unrest.
GREECE       1970    /a  1967.
ITALY        1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 snd over to total labor force;    /b  Hospital personnel.
SPAIN        1970    /a  Enploynent office estimate;    lb  Registered, not all practicing in the coutry.
R10, January 30, 1976
DFINmlIoN  OF 5OCLI  INDICAT0S
Land Area (thou kn2)                                                                      Penulation oar n-rsin;  reeson - Population divided by nionber of practicing
Total - Total surface sces onapristg land ares sod inland waters,                           male sad fle  graduate nsrsse, "trained" or "certified" nurese, and
Agric. - Mot recent estimate of sgricultural area used temperarily or perna-                auxiliary peronnel with training er exprience.
nently for crops, pastures, narket & kitchen gardens or to Ua fSallow.                  PonUatin Psr hasiPtal bed - Ptopgltion divided by nusbsr of hospital beds
available in public end private general sand epecia1ised hospital and
GNP per caPita (U5$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   rehabilitation center; excludes muraig henass and  atablis9nents for
calculated by same conversion nethod as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                 custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 dsta.                                                              Par capita sunslY of calories fn  of requirmssnts) - Computsd frm energy
equivalent of net food saPPlias available in coutry Per caPita per day;
Population and vital statistic:                                                             available supplies conpriss donestic production, imports less exports, and
PPuolacion (mi-ya oii      A).a of July first:  If met available,. avarg.                   changes in stock; net suPPlies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
Of two end-year ectim.ats; 1;960, 1970 sod 1975 data.                                    in food proces ing and losses in distribtion; requiresments wr estimted
by FAO based on physiological need  far norsal activity end health conid-
Population dme.ity - per square kh  - Mid-year popolation per squar  kilometsr              aring envirosAsntal tdapereturs, body weights, age sod sea dietribstions of
(105 he-ctaes) of total area.                                                            population, end allowing 10% for waste at household lev l.
Poeplatiun density - nor square kh  of scric. land - Conpurad as abhee for                Per capita suPply of protein (gram_ per dfy) - Protein cstent ef per capita
esgciculcurel loud only.                                                                  Mt supply of food per day; Mt supply of feed is defied as above; require-
mete for a11 countries establishad by USDA Econosic Researeh Services
vital ocacisrics                                                                            provide for a minionon allowance of 60 gras  of totel protaim  per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand.  verase - Annual live births per thousand of                 20 grass of  nimsal and pule protein, of which 10 grass should be enisl
oid-year population; teo-year aritlaetic average  ending in 1960 and 1970,                protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 gros of total protein
and five-year sver-gc ending in 1975 far m-t recent estimatte,                            and 23 gross of animl protein as an averag  for the world, prepued by FAO
Cude death rcet per thousand. verems - Annual deaths per thouand of mid-yer                 in the Third World Food Survey.
population ; ten-year arithostic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-             Per capita protein supply fin  animal en= puse - protein supply of feed
year avorage ending in 1975 for moat recent e-tinate.                                     derived fri  animals and puls  in gr    per day.
Infant mortality rate Vthou) - Annual deaths of inftnts under an year of age              Death rate U/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thou-and live births.                                                                 years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life copect.ocy at birth (y-m) - Average motahr of years of life remaining at               malnutrition.
birth; -uslly five-ye-r enrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
int  countries.                                                                         Education
Gross reproduction rate - Average nunber of live daughters a woman will bear              Adjusted enrollmnat ratio - erimer, school - Enrollment of a11 ages as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                 c.ntaga of pritry school-age popultion; includes children aged 6-1l years
f-ntility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjusted for differeat lengths of primary  ducation; for countries with
for dOveloping counti.s.                                                                  maivereal education, enrollment  ay exceed 1507. since  anm pupils are below
Population growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year               or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                            Adiusted enrollmnat ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Population growth rate (%) - urban - Conputed like growth rate of total                      ducation requires at least four yere of approwad prtasry instruction;
population; different dafinition  of urban area- -my affect eomparability of             provide  ges 1ral, vocational or teacher training instructiona for pupils
data among countries,                                                                     of 12 to 17 yeare of age; cerrespondenqe courses amr ganarally aecluded.
Urban population (2 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; diffarent             Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urbsn orese may affect comprability of dta emong countries,                schooling; at secendAry level, vacation-l inatraction my bh  partially or
omepletely soclusdd.
hAs structure (ore-nt) - Children (0-14  -e.ra), -sebkg_se (15-64   as) ),                Tacissal emosllmft S1 f seconr   - Vusatii,sl imatitutifna incsel
sod retired (6) years and over)  a percentages of mid-year population.                    tachinal, industrial or other prsgrn which eprtes i,dependently or a
Ace depond.ccy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to those                 depart                      heent, of econd ry indstitutiouso
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                  Adult lteracy rate   ) - Literate adults (able to read end wite) a  pe
Econceic dOeo.dmocy ratio - Ratio af population under 15 and 65 end over to                 tentage of total  dult population aged 15 years end over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Fcmily pIenoing - acceptom- (c,nulative. thou) - Cuonulative maser of acceptors           Housing
of birth-control devices under auspices of national femily planning program,            Persona per roeo (urban) - Average mashbr of persons per ronm in occupied
since icraptin. -re.(,o    ridwa)-P-otgm  f-re                              .o              onventianAl dwell fog  in urhan areas; dwellings  nxlueon-permanent
Pahild planning - uers (7. of married womaen) - Peomentages of asrrie4 wo  of                atructures  ad unoccupiad parts.
rhild-beariof age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to a11 married            Occupied dwellings without piped water         Oc) - Occupied Conventional dwellings
women in some age grouP.                                                                  in urban sand rurl areas without mnemide or outside piped water familitiae
as perceqntage of a11  ccupied dwellings.
Total lbor force (thousand) - Econofically active persons, including rd                     ele ctricityiniv i  n    f qsrt de alsperent of totaI dwellings in urbn and
forces and unmaplyed but ea.cluding housewives, students, etc.; definitiona               rural rsas.
in '-rioue countries are not conpareble.
Labor force in agriculture (2) - Agricultural labor force (in famning, forestry,                                      to dwectricity (1) - Cn wpund a bwe for rural
butting -ed fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (% of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as person  who              Cop unption
are able end willing to take7 ajob, out of a job on a given, day, remaineed out          Edi  eevr     e  hnen       l  ye   frciesfrrdohodat
of   job, amd seeking wom ter a specified mint   period not exceeding owe                 ti genr   pbi rrr   per r thous ad  f poplation; * tld   unlice d receivers
wetk; my not be comparable between countries due to different definition                   in countries and in yers when regietration0of radio sets was in effett;
of unemployed end source of data, e.g., eployment office statistics, empla                 data for recent years my not be comparable since mst countries abolished
surveys, nonpulcory unemployemnt mnaurane.                                                 iceing
Pesener  ar  C acthou eon) - Passenger cars comprise meter ears seating
IncOme distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cesh  nd kind)                 Ples  them sght person; excludes ambulances, hearse  nmd military
received by riohe-r 5%, rirhest 20%, poore-t 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                vehicles.
holds.                                                                                   Electricity (hrh/yr ear era) - Annuarl eonsuption of industrial, oemreil,
pulcan   rvate electricity in kilonect hmar per capita, genrally,
Distibuton o  lad owershp -Percen.tages of lend owned by wealthiest 10%              basd on production data, without el1lommee for lasses, in grids but allow-
and peoreet 10% of land owner                                                              ig for iport  nd eprt  of electricity.
eeeeeooi kaiy   per us) - Per eapita semnaml o-ameption in kilograms
Health and Nutrition                                                                         estrint (f/yr doresic  pruction plus net imports of nprmnt
fPpulation par physician - Population divided by number of practicing
physicians qualified fron a medical school at university 11.



- 24 -                                     ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA - PORTUGAL                                  Page 3 of 4
AREA                                   POPULATION                                      DENSITY   2
92,072 km2                             9.7 million (mid 1976)                          105 per km
Rate of growth: 0.9% (1970-1975)
GNP PER CAPITA (1976) $1690
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (between 1973 and 1975)             HEALTH (1974)
Crude birth rate (per 1000):                         19.2      Population per physician:              900
Crude death rate (per 1000):                         10.5      Population per hospital bed:           170
Infant Mortality (per 1000 live births):             37.9
NUTRITION (between 1973 and 1975)                              EDUCATION (1973)
Per capita caloric intake as % of requirements: 118            Adult literacy rate %:                   70
Per capita protein intake (grams per day):           85        Primary school enrollment %:           116
LAND OWNERSHIP (1968)
(in % of total)             Up to 4 ha        4 to 50 ha       Over 50 ha
Number of farms:             78               21                  1
Area:                        15               34                 51
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1977 /e                               ANNUAL RATES OF GROWTH (% constant prices)
(current prices and current exchange rate)
$ million       %           1968-73   1973    1975        1976 /e   1977 /e
GDP at market prices                  16,971      100.0           6.7      10.5     -3.7       5.4       6.0
Private and public consumption        14,569       85.8           6.1      10.8       1.8      2.6       0.0
Gross domestic savings                 2,402       14.2          12.0       8.0   -114.2               121.8
Gross domestic investment              4,595       27.1          11.7      11.9    -45.7      25.3      43.6
Current account deficit                1,152        6.8
Exports of goods and NFS               2,898       17.1           8.5       8.4    -15.6       0.9       7.3
Imports of goods and NFS              5,091        30.0           9.2      10.6    -25.2       2.9       5.0
GDP at factor cost                    15,431      100.0           6.9      11.1     -4.0       5.4       6.0
of which:
Agriculture                       2,253        14.6         -0.8       5.9      -2.7       0.0      -5.0
Industry                          6,645       43.1          10.2      13.9    -10.0        6.8       8.5
Services                          6,527       42.3           6.6       9.6       2.5       5.8       6.0
LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Labor Force                 V.A. Per Worker /e
1000       %                  $            %
Agriculture                                         832        27              2,680         57.8
Industry                                          1,128       36               5,426        117.0
Services                                          1,142        37              5,289        114.0
Total/Average                                   3,102       100              4,639        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(billion escudos)                                                  Revised        ' of
budget         GDP
1976         1977          1976
Current receipts                                         68.2         94.4         (14.4)
Current expenditures                                     87.7        119.6         (18.5)
Current surplus/deficit (-)                             -19.5        -25.2         (-4.1)
of the state
Balance of autonomous funds and                           3.2         10.4          (0.7)
services and local administration
Balance of social security system                        -9.9          0.0         (-2.1)
Current surplus/deficit (-) of                          -26.2        -14.8         (-5.5)
public sector
Capital expenditures                                     20.6         35.4          (4.3)
Overall deficit                                         -45.2        -53.6         (-9.5)



-25-                                     ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
COUNTRY DATA - PORTUGAL (continued)
Billion Esc.
End      End                 Annual Percentage Increase
MONEY, CREDIT, WAGES AND PRICES               1976      1977 /e    1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977 /e
Money and quasi-money                          458       578        20.6   23.4   13.6   12.6   19.0   26.2
of which: currency                           110        ..        13.1    6.0   82.5   57.1    0.0
sight deposits                    135        ..        19.5   35.3  -11.0    4.1   15.4
time deposits                     213        ..       25.2   15.9   17.7   nil    34.8
Bank credit                                    487       647       24.0   30.1   21.8   19.0   35.3   32.8
of which: private sector                     411      518        23.0   32.6   17.7    7.6   26.1   26.0
public sector                      76       129        49.1  -23.6   nil   137.0  127.5   69.7
Wages (Lisbon and Oporto)                       .         .         11.0    9.5   32.3   25.9   14.0   15.0
Consumer prices (Lisbon and Oporto)             .         .         11.8   12.1   25.9   16.5   19.3   28.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1973      1974       1975       1976       1977 /e    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, 1976 /e
---------(current prices, $ million)---------
$ million %
Exports, fob               1,740.2   2,192.1   1,944.0   1,827.1   1,938
Imports, fob              2,672.1   4,175.5   3,621.3   3,937.1   4,372             Agriculture          315    17
of which: oil             (154.7)   (531.3)   (572.5)   (662.5)                    (incl. wine)
Trade deficit              -931.9  -1,983.4  -1,677.3  -2,110.0  -2,434             Textiles and         537    30
footwear
Tourism, receipts            550.5     513.2      361.8      334.1      481         Machinery and        232    13
Other NFS, net             -483.2    -587.6    -531.4    -305.7    -229               equipment
Factor income, net         1,182.4   1,243.2   1,026.6       846.0   1,030          Chemical               33     2
Wood, cork and       354    19
Current balance              317.8    -814.6    -820.3  -1,235.6  -1,152              furniture
Others               356    19
Direct foreign               110.5      108.8     121.7       74.8      ..                             1,827   100
investment
EXTERNAL DEBT END-1977 /e
Public MLT loans              32.8      40.9      -39.8      127.9      ..          (outstanding and disbursed)
Disbursements              106.6     108.4       44.3      208.3
Amortization              -73.8      -67.5      -84.1      -80.4      *-                           $ million  %
Subtotal                      32.8      40.9      -39.8      127.9      ..         Public debt         1,437
ST capital and errors        135.3     -82.1      -89.6      244.7      *-         Debt service          155
and omissions                                                                      payments
Capital grants                --        --         --         36.0      ..         Debt service                   8
ratio
Other capital (nei)         -214.4     231.0       93.0      528.2
Changes in reserves         -382.0     516.0      735.0      224.0
(- = increase)
Official reserves,         2,839.0   2,354.0   1,534.0   1,302.0
gross end of year /b
of which: Gold          1,163.0   1,193.0   1,136.0   1,126.0
Foreign       1,641.0   1,125.0      390.0      166.0
exchange
RATES OF EXCHANGE
1973             $1.00 = Esc. 24.67                            1977 (February)  $1.00 = Esc. 38.73
1974            $1.00 = Esc. 25.41                             1977 (August)    $1.00 = Esc. 38.79
1975             $1.00 = Esc. 25.44                            1977 (December)  $1.00 = Esc. 40.08
1976             $1.00 = Esc. 30.00                            1978 (January)   $1.00 = Esc. 40.30
/e estimated
/p provisional
/n includes claims on non-monetary financial institutions
/b  IFS.  Gold is valued at official prices.                                        March 29, 1918
Not available                                                                   EMENA Region
Not applicable



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of February 28, 1978)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No.   Year          Borrower        Purpose         Bank            Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully disbursed    57.5                        -
1301        1976    Electricidade de
Portugal            Power           36.0                 35.6
1334        1976    Republic of
Portugal            Highways        24.0                 24.0
1432        1977    Banco de Fomento
Nacional            DFC             50.0                 50.0
TOTAL                                       167.5               109.6
of which has been repaid                   24.5
TOTAL now outstanding                       143.0
Amount sold                          2.2
of which has been repaid            2.1       .1
TOTAL now held by Bank /a                   142.9
TOTAL undisbursed                                               109.6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of February 28, 1978)
None.
/a   Prior to exchange adjustment.
Note: A loan of $40 million to the Republic of Portugal for the Lisbon Region
Water Supply Project was approved on March 28, 1978, subsequent to the
above date of Statement A. It is not yet signed.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1301 - Sixth Power Project; $36.0 Million Loan of September 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Project is likely to be delayed one year because of organiza-
tional changes in the Power Authority (EDP) and revisions in the Project
scope. The Project cost is presently estimated at $786 million equivalent,
a decrease of about 30 percent over the appraisal estimates due mainly to
the postponement of the nuclear program and devaluation of the Escudo. Owing
to the Government's decision to restrict bidding for the turbo-generator for
the Setubal thermal plant to local manufacturers, mainly to protect the local
industry, a possibility foreseen during negotiations, and to changes in the
design of the Crestuma hydropower Project, about $15 million of the loan
proceeds are being reallocated among the other categories. All these factors
have delayed procurement under the loan, and the start of significant dis-
bursements. The Power Authority is being reorganized with emphasis on decen-
tralizing management and merging municipal and small private electricity
undertakings with the Power Authority. After a poor year in 1976 owing to
the bad hydrological conditions, the Power Authority's earnings in 1977
were satisfactory, with a self-financing level of 20 percent, because of
better conditions and an average tariff increase of 25 percent effective
February 1, 1977.
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: July 31, 1980.
While road rehabilitation is on schedule, other projects items are
some 10 months behind schedule. The Government's decision to postpone bidding
until the effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 9-month delay in purchasing
highway maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquisition may
cause a 10-month delay in the construction of the Covilha bypass road. The
rehabilitation plan for railways will also be 9 months behind schedule due to
delays in selection of consultants.
Loan No. 1432 - Development Finance Company Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
While loan signing was delayed due to legal problems raised by the
Attorney General's office, project implementation is expected to catch up with
appraisal estimates. The Borrower, National Development Bank (BFN), has
submitted an initial list of six appraised projects which could require up to
$2.0 million in IBRD sub-loans.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by government to prepare             Six months
the project:
(b) The agency which has prepared the
Project:                                        Ministry of Education
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank
and date of first Bank mission to con-
sider the project:                              March 26, 1977
(d)  Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:                 June 14, 1977
(e)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:             March 23, 1978
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                  August 15, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank staff, through frequent missions, will review progress in
technical assistance arrangements essential to project objectives, in pro-
curement, in construction and in planning activities. A start-up mission
following Loan signing will review final equipment lists and bid documents.
Section III: Action by Borrower and Special Conditions
1.   Appointment of architects to design the management training
centers is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(para. 57).
2.   Progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in acquiring sites for
the management training centers is a condition of disburse-
ment of loan proceeds allocated to the management training
component (para. 57).
3.   Measures to be taken by the Government include the following:



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(i) Suitably experienced and qualified teachers and staff in
sufficient numbers from each level and specialization
will be recruited and appropriately trained sufficiently
in advance of the opening of each project institution
(paras. 43 to 49);
(ii) the proposed new structure of the management training
institute will be submitted to the Bank by December 31,
1978 (para. 43);
(iii) a follow-up system to trace graduate placement and per-
formance will be developed and operational by the time
the first class graduates from the technician training
institutes (para. 44);
(iv) an evaluation of the prototype training program in the
pilot vocational training centers will be undertaken by
the Ministry of Education and the Office of Employment
within one year following the production of the first
graduates (para. 45);
(v) an evaluation of the programs of the Department of
Education at the University of Aveiro will be carried
out by 1985 and the results forwarded to the Bank
(para. 46);
(vi) by December 1, 1978, a study will be initiated to deter-
mine Portugal's needs for trained manpower of all types
and levels of specialization up to 1990 and to assess the
current and planned sources and amounts of such manpower
to be produced within this period. The findings of the
study would be made available to the Bank by November 30,
1979 (para. 53); and
(vii) arrangements for contracting specialists services and for
fellowship training programs will be substantially com-
pleted in accordance with an agreed schedule (para. 54).






r = - . _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I_ _._____ b P,   1 3 1;17W
FIRST EDUCAT4O  PROiC
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                              2 =  0    -W    40    A-.'- KiL/ 7.E!TERbr
P                      -    P     A      I    N
1____________=__________________\,                               _____             _       __                             -         -        J     )           M ROCCO             -         AL   ,L   A



