LOAN NUMBER 1559 PO
Loan Agreement
(Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 6, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1559 ?O
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Ministry of Education" means the ministry of the
Borrower at the time being responsible for education and the term
"MIT" means the Ministry of Industry and Technology or any other
ministry of the Borrower at the time being responsible for indus-
try.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Ministry of Education (except for Part F of the
Project which shall be carried out through MIT), with the assis-
tance of other ministries as appropriate, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate education, en-
gineering and administrative practices and in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ appropriately
qualified and experienced specialists on terms appropriate to
their tasks for the purposes indicated in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. In the case of specialists to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, their qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-3-
(b) The fellowships and travel programs described in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be undertaken only after they have been accepted by
the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the


﻿Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank if the
Bank so requests, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of


﻿-5-
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by any institution performing
the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or
similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintair or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain the
institutions and facilities described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement in acco:dance with appropriate educational, financial,
administrative and maintenance practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall submit its proposed revised
administrative structure and procedures for MIT's Training Insti-
tute to the Bank for its comments by December 31, 1978.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that architects have been appointed to design the manage-
ment training centers for Part F of the Project.
Section 5.02. The date September 6, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time being
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministdrio das Finangas
Rua da Alfandega
Lisbon
Portugal
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTERIO DAS FINANgAS            12143 MINFIN P
Lisbon
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, s of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
By /s/ Vitor Constancio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Management train-
ing centers (Part F
of the Project):
(a) Civil works            700,000           30%
(b) Equipment              580,000           100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory (exclud-
ing taxes and
duties) and 80%
of local expen-
ditures for
items not pur-
chased from
manufacturer
(c) Furniture              140,000           100% of foreign
expenditures and
30% of local
expenditures if
locally manufac-
tured and 85% of
local expendi-
tures if imported
but purchased
locally


﻿-8-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(d) Technical            1,380,000           80%
assistance
(including
fellowships
and travel
grants)
(e) Unallocated            200,000
(2) Other Project items:
(a) Civil works          6,900,000           30%
(b) Vehicles and         7,810,000           100% of foreign
equipment                               expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory (exclud-
ing taxes and
duties) and 80%
of local expen-
ditures for
items not pur-
chased from
manufacturer
(c) Furniture              420,000           100% of foreign
expenditures and
30% of local
expenditures if
locally manufac-
tured and 85% of
local expendi-
tures if im-
ported but pur-
chased locally


﻿Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(d) Technical           1,590,000           80%
assistance
(including
fellowships
and travel
grants)
(e) Unallocated         1,280,000
TOTAL    21,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) Category
(1) until action satisfactory to the Bank has been taken to


﻿- 10 -
acquire suitable sites for the management training centers
included in Part F of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
The Project
I.   Objectives
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) introduce post-
secondary level practically-oriented technician training to meet
urgent manpower needs; (ii) provide unemployed school leavers in
major urban areas with the opportunity to acquire broad pre-
apprentice skills training; (iii) improve, upgrade and reorganize
facilities for training of teachers with emphasis on (a) develop-
ing a program for training teachers of handicapped children, (b)
introducing concurrent teacher education programs particularly for
preparatory and secondary teachers at the regional university at
Aveiro, (c) replacing existing teacher training institutes with
new and appropriately equipped regional teacher training insti-
tutes for basic cycle (grades one to six) teachers, and (d) pro-
viding facilities for full-time and ad hoc courses of in-service
training for teachers at all levels; (iv) determine the need for
para-medical training and for facilities for the teaching of
science, engineering and technology in universities; (v) determine
needs of the labor market through 1990 and relate these needs to
training requirements; (vi) consolidate and improve capabilities
in curriculum development; and (vii) establish two centers to
improve management training capacity and quality for advanced and
middle level management.
II. Project Description
The Project consists of the following Parts which shall be
carried out in accordance with the provisions set out below:
Part A:   Technician Training Institutes
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of two new
institutes at Setubal and Faro with the capacity
for a combined enrollment of 2,130 students in
industrial technology, fish processing technol-
ogy and middle ianagement training.
(2) Converting and equipping the existing agricultural
institutes at Coimbra and Santarem to accommodate a
combined enrollment of 960 in food processing and
production.


﻿- 12 -
(3) Providing improved equipment for the commercial
institutes at Lisbon, Porto and Coimbra.
(4) In connection with this Part A, (a) the Ministry of
Education shall develop syllabi and teacher train-
ing programs with the assistance of specialists to
be employed for this purpose and (b) fellowships
will be provided to about 22 staff members of the
foregoing institutes for study visits to similar
institutions outside Portugal.
Part B:   Vocational Training
(1) Establishment of programs in five existing adult
vocational training centers to provide training
through ten-month courses in basic trades skills
for about 400 trainees annually.
(2) For this Part B, curriculum will be developed
and the use of new equipment will be demonstrated
with the assistance of specialists to be employed
for this purpose.
Part C:   Institute for Training Teachers of Handicapped Children
and Other Basic Cycle Teachers
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a new
teacher training institute at Porto having the
capacity for 630 full-time trainees and 90 part-
time in-service trainees at one time.
(2) For training of teachers of handicapped children,
establishment of a two-year pre-service program
for about 180 teachers and one-year in-service
programs for about 30 teachers annually at such
institute.
(3) For training of basic cycle teachers, establishment
of a three-year pre-service program for about 360
teachers, a one-year in-service program for about
60 teachers annually and in-service programs of one
to five days duration for about 90 teachers at one
time at such institute.
(4) For this Part C, (a) the Ministry of Education
shall develop a syllabus for training teachers of


﻿- 13 -
handicapped children and to train teachers of such
teachers with the assistance of specialists to be
employed for this purpose and (b) fellowships will
be provided for teaching staff of such institute
and for study visits of such institute's managers
and administrators to similar institutions outside
Portugal.
Part D:   University of Aveiro -- Integrated Center
for Teacher Training
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of facili-
ties for the Integrated Center so as to increase
its capacity to 1,080 students.
(2) Initiation   of  experimental pre-service  training
programs for 180 basic cycle, 750 secondary general
and 60 secondary technical teachers.
(3) Establishment of in-service teacher training
programs for 90 teachers on a full-time basis for
one-year and for about 120 teachers on a part-time
basis at one time.
(4) For this Part, (a) specialists will be employed to
assist with organizational and administrative mat-
ters connected with the Integrated Center, (b)
staff members will be provided fellowships, and (c)
administrative personnel will be provided fellow-
ships for visits to similar institutions outside
Portugal.
Part E:   Basic Cycle Teacher Training
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of five new
teacher training institutes at Faro, Castelo
Branco, Braganca, Leiria and Viana do Castelo
having the capacity for a combined enrollment of
1,470 full-time basic cycle teacher trainees and
450 part-time in-service trainees at one time.
(2) Providing improved equipment for existing teacher
training institutes at Vila Real and Beja.
(3) Introduction of new curricula upgraded to post-
secondary level in such institutes.


﻿- 14 -
(4) For this Part, (a) specialists in teacher education
will be employed to assist the Ministry of Educa-
tion, (b) fellowships will be provided to staff of
such institutes and (c) fellowships will be pro-
vided for study visits by staff members of such
institutes and teacher training administrators from
the Ministry of Education.
Part F:   Management Training Centers
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of two
new management training centers at Lisbon and
Porto having the combined capacity for 400 places.
(2) For this Part, (a) specialists will be employed by
MIT to assist in developing appropriate courses and
to assist with organizational and administrative
matters, (b) architects will be employed to design
such centers, and (c) fellowships will be provided
for teaching and administrative staff.
Part G:   Studies
(1) Carrying out a study of the feasibility of training
para-medical technicians, including demand for such
training, and if warranted an engineering study of
the facilities required.
(2) Carrying out a study of methods of upgrading
teaching of science, engineering and technology in
universities.
(3) Carrying out a manpower planning study, pursuant to
terms of reference established in consultation with
the Bank, to determine Portugal's major manpower
needs through 1990 by forecasts of demand and
supply in the major occupational categories in
order to develop manpower policies and training
requirements. This study will be initiated by
December 1, 1978, and its findings will be made
available to the Bank by November 30, 1979 or such
later date(s) as the Bank may accept.
(4) For this Part, specialists will be employed to
assist in carrying out these studies.


﻿- 15 -
Part H:   Curriculum Development
(1) Establishment of a coordinated and comprehensive
curriculum development scheme.
(2) For this Part, technical assistance and fellowships
for staff of the Ministry of Education will be
provided.
Part I:   Project Evaluation
Evaluation of the foregoing Parts of the Project,
including:
(1) Establishment of a system to trace graduate place-
ment and job performance for Part A by the time of
the graduation of the first class enrolled in the
programs described therein;
(2) Carrying out a study within one year of the gradu-
ation of the first class of the program described
in Part B to determine its effectiveness and
whether such program should be extended;
(3) Carrying out a thorough study of the effectiveness
of the programs described in Part D by December
1985 or such later date as may be accepted by the
Bank; and
(4) The results of the foregoing evaluations will be
furnished to the Bank promptly on their completion.
The institutions included in the Project and their minimum
teaching staff requirements are further described in the Annex to
this Schedule which may be amended by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.
III. General
A.   Parts A through H of the Project are expected to be physically
completed by September 30, 1981.


﻿- 16 -
B.   Experienced and qualified persons will be employed during
the Project implementation period in the Ministry of Education's
Directorate of Higher Education to coordinate implementation of
the Proiect (other than Part F of the Project) and to assist MIT
in implementing Part F, including a project coordinator and a
deputy project coordinator. Either the project coordinator or the
deputy project coordinator will devote full time to the Project.
C.   Experienced and qualified persons will be employed during the
Project implementation period in MIT's Training Institute to
coordinate implementation of Part F of the Project.
D.   Teachers in at least the numbers indicated in the Annex to
this Schedule and adequate supporting staff will be recruited for
each institution or program by the dates indicated in such Annex,
except as the Bank may otherwise agree.
E.   Technical assistance and fellowships will be provided in
accordance with scheduling acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank. The Borrower will submit its proposals for such scheduling
to the Bank by October 31, 1978.


﻿- 17 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Institutions
Higher     Capacity     Minimum     Staff
Part of                                          Education  Pre-  Pro-    Teacher  Appointed
Project   Type of Institution/Program   Location Grades*   vious posed** Requirement   By
Technician Training (Post-Secondary)                                260
A (1) 1 New industrial institute and     Setubal    1-2    -   1545        120        7/81
A (1) 1 New industrial/fish process-     Faro       1-2    -    585         50        7/80
ing/commercial institute (con-
struction, furnishing and
equipping)
A (2) 2 Converted food processing and    Coimbra    1-2   510   510         50        9/78
production institutes (minor    Santarem   1-2   450   450         40        9/78
construction, furnishing and
equipping)
A (3) 3 Existing commercial institutes   Coimbra    1-2   500   500      already       -
(partial equipping only)***     Lisbon     1-2 1200 1200        staffed      -
Porto      1-2 1200 1200                      -
Vocational Training (Pre-Apprentice)                                 18
B (1) 5 Existing vocational institutes Alverca       n.a. -      60                  9/78
(partial equipping only)        Coimbra     n.a. -      60                  9/78
Evora       n.a. -      60                   9/78
Guarda      n.a. -     120                   9/78
Rio Meao    n.a. -     120                   9/78
Teacher Training (Post-Secondary)                                  236
C (1) 1 Institute for training basic     Porto      1-3   740   630         50        7/80
cycle teachers and teachers
of handicapped children
(construction, furnishing
and equipping)
*    Higher education means education commencing after at least 11
years of basic and secondary education.
**   Full-time pre-service and in-service teacher training programs
for Parts C, D and E of the Project.
*** These institutes may eventually offer a three-year program
(grades 1-3).


﻿- 18 -
Higher     Capacity     Minimum      Staff
Part of                                           Education  Pre-  Pro-    Teacher    Appointed
Project   Type of Institution/Program    Location  Grades   vious posed  Requirements    By
D (1)  1 Integrated Center in             Aveiro     1-5   470  1080        55          7/80
University of Aveiro (new con-
struction, furnishing and
equipping)
E (1)  5 Replacement teacher training     Faro       1-3   170   330        28          7/80
institutes (construction, fur-  Castello    1-3   340   330       28           7/80
nishing and equipping)             Branco
Braganca   1-3   300    330       28          7/80
Leiria     1-3   230    240       19          7/80
Viana do   1-3   270    330       28          7/80
Castelo
E (2) 2 Existing teacher training         Vila Real  1-3   450   240       already        -
institutes (equipping only)      Beja       1-3   150   240      staffed         -
Management Training                                                 40
F (1) 2 New management                    Lisbon     n.a.   -    240                   12/80
training centers                 Porto      n.a.   -    160                  12/80
(construction,
furnishing and
equipping)


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1981
through   June 15, 1993                         875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                        6.50%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.50%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, vehicles, equipment and
civil works shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For vehicles, equipment and civil works to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding under the Project, the
Borrower shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possi-
ble, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the vehicles, equipment and civil works in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any vehicles, equipment or civil works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Furniture and Equipment Lists
Detailed lists and specifications of furniture and equip-
ment, indicating the extent to which items can be grouped together
for bulk procurement, shall be submitted to the Bank for its
review and approval, and the furniture and equipment procured, and
its grouping for bulk procurement, shall be substantially in
conformity with the lists so approved.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent and specialized items available from few suppliers may
be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder after local competitive
bidding in accordance with the Borrower's standard procedures,
provided that the aggregate cost of contracts let under such
procedures shall not exceed $1,800,000 equivalent.


﻿- 22 -
2.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
$1,500,000 equivalent, subject to the Bank's approval, and
contracts for furniture may be awarded to the lowest evaluated
bidder after local competitive bidding in accordance with the
Borrower's standard procedures.
3.   Local competitive bidding under the foregoing paragraphs
C.1 and 2 shall permit the participation of foreign firms on an
equal basis with Portuguese firms.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
the procedures described in the foregoing Part C: (i) bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically
manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically
supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Portugal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Portugal if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Portugal equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 23 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Portugal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods      fered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and all con-
tracts for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require


﻿- 24 -
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


