Report No. PID8058
Project Name                     Slovak Republic-Social Benefits (@)
Administration Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Pensions & Social Insurance
Project ID                       SKPE38090
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF SLOVAKIA
Implementing Agency
Address MIN.LAB. SOC. AFFAIRS&FAM.,
NAT. LAB. OFF., SOC. INS. AGENCY
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 19, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         December 5, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 24, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The pension system has run a deficit in recent years due to ad hoc
increases to index benefits for inflation and a reduction in revenues due
to payment arrears on the part of state employers, increased unemployment,
and a growing informal sector. Similarly, with more job losses, the
Employment Fund has been hard pressed to pay out unemployment compensation
and, as a result, has virtually stopped funding active labor market
programs, except for a recently inaugurated public works program funded
through general revenues. Expenditures on social assistance are
relatively high (surpassing 1 percent of GDP), but cover an unusually high
proportion of young people, probably at the expense of families.Government'
s strategy to reform the social protection system will be geared to: n
Complementing the pay-as-you-go pension system with a multi-pillar system;
n Promoting the transition from a benefit-based system to an
insurance-based system; n Improving social assistance targeting; n
Addressing the incentive effects of social assistance on employment; and n
Making the system more efficient and cost-effective.
2. Objectives
n Increase compliance and improve client satisfaction in the provision of
social insurance;f Develop multi-pillar pension system lowering projected
pension deficit;n Reduce unemployment through better employment and social
programs;f Improve targeting of social assistance and better program
coordination.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has been proven to be a leader in coordinating dialogue on
pension reform and has helped many countries in the region develop
successful multi-pillar systems. Bank experience in this area is unique
among all other donors. The Bank will enter into a full dialogue with the
Slovak government through the provision of technical assistance to support
pension reform. Because of the Bank's experience with social insurance
implementation project, it is in a position to provide full funding for
improvements in the information technology system required by the SIA.



Although the SIA has attempted to provide some funding during the period
of project delay, recent fiscal constraints have not enabled it to
progress sufficiently to create a central client database on its own.
Through World Bank funding, this objective can be achieved more rapidly.
Further, Bank funding can provide ongoing technical assistance to
integrate management changes with IT delivery. A project in Bulgaria with
a similar structure has recently been rated as highly satisfactory. The
current team was involved in the development and supervision of that
project. With further delays in the project, contribution compliance is
likely to decrease rapidly as payment problems in both the formal and
informal sector have accelerated with declines in economic activity.
Further, the Bank is in a good position to help coordinate dialogue across
agencies leading to unified technical and policy solutions to social
reformsLastly, the commitment by the Government at the highest level to
improve social program development and implementation will serve as an
example to other countries in the region which have been consideration a
re-design in their contribution systems.
4. Description
(1) Institutional Strengthening: The component provides technical
assistance in seven areas to support the policy design and administrative
upgrading objectives of the SIA, MLOSAF, and NLO.n operational policies
for institutional development;n supplemental pension design and public
informationn pension reform design including actuarial projections and
public information;n evaluation of active labor market programs;f
assessment of social program interactions and development of monitoring
criteria; n human resource management; and n establishment of the PCU and
PMUs.(2) Establishment of Contribution Collection and Payment System: The
component would put in place modern infrastructure to process the
financial flows to and from the SIA and the NLO. The component would
simplify the procedures for payment filing and declarations, introduce
electronic filing for large taxpayers, and institute targeted audits
(audit for cause) and random audits in lieu of periodic audits. (3)
Development of Information Systems: The component would finance the
development and implementation of automation systems and infrastructure
for the SIA necessary to ensure efficient and effective delivery of
services. It would improve client services in the SIA as well. It would
also support database development for employment programs for the MOLSAF
and NLO, and for social assistance, social welfare, and workplace safety
for the MOLSAF for program monitoring and analysis.
(1) Institutional Development
(2) Contribution Collection and Payment Systems.
(3) Information Systems Development
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       48.1
6. Implementation
1. Project Management: The project would be implemented over a five-year
period by three agencies: the MOLSAF, the SIA and the NLO. Overall
responsibility for the project will rest with the Ministry of Labor, where
a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be set up. In addition, for the
other two participating agencies - NLO and SIA - small technical Project
Management Units (PMUs) would be established to provide technical
-2 -



oversight to the implementation of their respective activities. To provide
policy oversight and direction for the project as a whole, a Steering
Committee, comprising representatives from MOLSAF, SIA, NLO and the PCU
will be established. The Minister of Labor, Social Affairs and Family,
will chair the Committee.The PCU will be responsible for overall
coordination of the activities of the project, in particular, the common
procurement, disbursement and reporting functions. The PCU will function
as the liaison between the Bank and the implementing agency for the
project, as well as liaison with the other involved Government agencies.
The PCU will be responsible for: (a) overall financial management of the
project, including handling of disbursements and required reporting
procedures, including quarterly project management reports, for the Bank;
(b) overall management of the procurement process, including processing of
procurement packages and coordination of the bid evaluations. The
individual PMUs will be responsible for technical oversight of their
respective components, and all technical background work for the
procurement process, including preparation of terms of reference and
technical specifications. To ensure coordination of the project
activities, the PCU and PMUs should meet on a regular basis.The PCU will
comprise seven full time positions: Director, three Procurement Officers,
two Financial Officers and two administrative Assistants/Interpreter. All
three agencies will be represented on this staff, with individuals from
NLO and SIA being seconded to the PCU on a full-time basis for the life of
the project. Activities related to each of the agencies would be
implemented by working groups specifically set up for each of the
sub-component activities. These working groups would have responsibility
for technical decisions related to the sub-component activities of the
project. Since the PCU staff are not entirely familiar with Bank-financed
projects, technical assistance should be provided to give overall support
in project management, implementation and procurement. This technical
assistance will be provided in the form of a Senior Policy/Management
Advisor, an Information Technical Advisor and a Procurement Advisor. These
advisors, who will be providing intensive support to the project in the
initial stages of project start- up, will continue to provide support
throughout the life of the project, on a declining basis.     Each of the
two PMUs in NLO and SIA will comprise two full time positions: Director
and assistant. The Director would be responsible for organizing managing
the working groups in his/her agency. The PMUs will ensure that the
substantive aspects of the project are carried out. Establishment of the
three units (PCU and two PMUs) and appointment of staff will be conditions
of negotiationsAgreement between Borrower and Implementing Agencies. The
Borrower is the Slovak Republic represented by its Ministry of Finance
(MoF). The MLSAF, the SIA, and the NLO will be the implementing agencies
for the Project. Subsidiary loan agreements will be signed between the
MoF and the SIA and between the MOF and the NLO. Assurances have been
obtained from the MoLSAF, the SIA, and the NLO, that adequate funding,
based on the project financing plan, will be made available in a timely
manner and necessary steps will be taken to expedite the procurement
procedures related to major equipment.Disbursement MechanismsThe proposed
project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five and a half
years, which is considerably shorter than the relevant profile in the
region (about seven years). This project will be the first investment
operation and the first in the human resource sector in the Slovak
Republic. Therefore, the country disbursement profile of the sector is
speculative. However, the shorter implementation period for the present
- 3-



project reflects the nature of the project as a narrowly focused
institutional development project in support of the Government's social;
program reform program as well as the straightforward nature of the
project's design. Implementation and related disbursements will be
facilitated by having defined equipment lists and agreed terms of
reference prior to project implementation (see Chapter III, PIP). The
Closing date will be July 30, 2006. All disbursements against contracts
for goods exceeding US$200,000 and services and training for consulting
firms and for individual consultants will be fully documented. For
expenditures below that level, disbursements will be made on the basis of
certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). This documentation will be
made available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision
missions and will be retained by the PCU for at least one year after
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the
allocations of the proceeds of the Bank Loan and Borrower counterpart
financing would be managed by the PCU in coordination and consultation
with the Ministry of Finance.Retroactive FinancingThe project may include
retroactive financing for goods and consultant services/training. Only
those contracts will be acceptable under retroactive financing which will
meet the Bank's procurement guidelines. Agreement will be reached with
the Government at Negotiations on retroactive financing in the amount of
US$1.0 million for items and services relating to project implementation
that are needed urgently. Of the US$1.0 million, US$0.1 million would be
used for equipment purchases relating to project start-up. The reminder
would be for consultant services and training for PCU staff including
foreign study tours. The date for retroactive financing is January 1,
2001. Flow of FundsThe PCU will be responsible for handling all
disbursements under the Loan. Project Audit Reporting and
Evaluation:Financial and Audit Reports: During the Appraisal, the Bank
reached agreement with the PCU on the following: (i) an appropriate chart
of accounts and project ledger will have to be designed to classify and
record project expenditures; (ii) a fixed asset register will be prepared
for identifying and controlling equipment purchased under the project;
(iii) quarterly updates of financial management reports including the
financial statement will be submitted to the bank not later than 30 days
after each quarter's closing: (iv) the task of preparing the financial
management reports will be assigned specifically to staff in charge of the
project reporting; and (vi) financial statements will be audited annually
by a qualified independent external auditor acceptable to the Bank and
under Terms of Reference approved by the Bank. Audited reports will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the completion of the
Government's fiscal year.The PUC will be responsible for coordinating
annual project audits and for fulfilling reporting requirements. The
Borrower will also provide the Bank (within six months of the end of each
fiscal year) an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an independent auditor
acceptable to the IBRD on disbursements against certified statements of
expenses (SOEs). The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs
submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, and be relied upon to
support the related withdrawal applications.Internal Controls: The PCU
will draft an Operational Manual and include clear delegation and
segregation of duties, clear written standards and procedures, and clear
responsibilities including levels of authority by January 1, 2001.
- 4 -



7. Sustainability
In the policy area, the implementation of multi-tiered pension systems,
once designed and established under law, have not once been overturned.
Already, framework multi-tier pension legislation has been passed by
parliament. There is a task force appointed that has been working on
these issues constructively for some time. There is considerably
bipartisan agreement that the current pension system is not sustainable in
the future. Further, both the MLSAF, officials at the SIA, and the Deputy
Prime Minister for Economics support the reform. In fact, the strength of
the support from the social agencies is unusual. The MOLSAF now regards
the project's ultimate objective to provide technical assistance with
policy design and concomitant operational and IT support as the
fundamental objective of the project. With regard to other policies, the
Slovak Republic currently has one of the better systems for social
protection. There is considerably interest in improving that system
through better policy analysis. As an indicator of that resolve,
unemployment benefits have been lowered in response to adverse economic
conditions. Similarly, changes in the treatment of the long-term
unemployed have included both reductions in the amount of social
assistance provided and the establishment of a public works program for
the long-term unemployed.This project will develop the institutional
capacity of the MLSAF, the SIA, and the NLO. The changes in operations
implemented in the project are permanent; that is, new information
technology and a changed organizational structure will preclude returning
to old methods. As the new procedures are intended to be both cost saving
and quality enhancing, Government is strongly in favor of their
implementation.   High borrower ownership is reflected in their
enthusiastic participation in preparation activities across two elected
governments. The project is non-partisan in that manner. The costs of
maintaining the new activities will be included in and integral to the
budgets of the relevant entities. Once the new information technology
systems are established, old systems will be abolished and the
participating agencies will have cut all ties to the old procedures. The
sustainability of procedures for operational analysis and policy
evaluation will be ensured through the staffing of offices to perform
these functions and through the strengthening of borrower ownership
through project implementation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The implementation of pension administration projects in the ECA region
has shown that their success depends on: (i) support from the authorities
at the highest level in the implementing agency; (ii) the willingness to
accept technical assistance, as well as the acquisition of hardware; (iii)
the clear linkages between management and operational reforms and the
purchase of hardware; (iv) the development of appropriate software to
support the management and operational reforms; (v) the development of a
committed and well-trained PCU to implement the project;; (vi) the
adequate training of staff to use the new procedures, and (vii)
coordinated policy objectives across Government and the agencies involved
in the Project. In Slovakia, the success of a project depends upon the
willingness of Government to place the Loan in the annual Budget.The
following experiences have been taken into account in designing the
Project: (i) The Minister of Labor Social Affairs, and Family and the
Directors General of the SIF and NLO personally support the PCU and
project development; the Deputy Prime Minister also personally supports
- 5-



project development particularly as it will provide the basis for the
pension reform; (ii) All key stakeholders support the project, including
business and labor. As the Boards of the NLO and the SIA are tripartite,
the project would not have been approved without the support of these
constituencies.    The Minister of Labor, Social Affairs and Family also
heads the Supervisory Boards of the SIA ad the NLO, which are tri-partite
agencies. (iii) Two of the components include turnkey operations in which
the technical assistance provided is central to the project; the
authorities have selected this approach as the most efficient alternative.
In addition, the first component provides technical assistance that the
borrowers recognize as essential to improving the capacity of the three
participating organizations.(iv) The Government through its experiences
with earlier EU/PHARE projects is already aware of the need to link
management and IT improvements; these linkages are reflected in the
project design;(v) Software development is closely linked to hardware
installation in the project design;(vi) To ensure an efficient project
start-up the PUC will be in place prior to Negotiations with staff
selected and appropriate training initiated;(vii) Staff training both
managerial and technical is an integral part of the project design;
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         None
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Emily S. Andrews
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 5-248-9538
Fax: 5-248-9510
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 23, 2001.
- 6 -



