Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22894-SK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR26.2 MILLION (US$ 23.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
FOR A
SOCIAL BENEFITS REFORM ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
January 17, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of January 17, 2002)
Currency Unit = Slovak Crown
I Crown = USS.02
US$1 = 48.1 Crowns
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS:          Country Assistance Strategy
EA:           Environmental Assessment
EMP:          Environment Management Plan
FMS:          Financial Management System
GDP:          Gross Domestic Product
IT:           Information Technology
MOLSAF:       Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family
NGO:          Non Government Organization
NLO:          National Labor Office
PAYGO:        Pay-as-you-go
PCU:          Project Coordination Unit
PMR:          Project Management Report
PMU:          Project Management Unit
POM:          Project Operational Manual
SBRA:         Social Benefits Reform Administration
SIA:          Social Insurance Agency
SOE:          Statement of Expenses
TA:           Technical Assistance
TOR:          Tenns of Reference
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Roger Grawe
Sector Manager/Director:   Michal Rutkowski
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Emily Andrews



SLOVAK REPUBLIC
SOCIAL BENEFITS REFORM ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                15
4. Indications of borrower commitmnent and ownership                                  16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           17
2. Financial                                                                          18
3. Technical                                                                          18
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Envirormental                                                                      19
6. Social                                                                             20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     21



2. Critical risks                                                                     22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     23
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            24
2. Other                                                                              24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         34
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           35
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    37
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       39
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     58
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   58
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            62
MAP(S)
IBRD # 27947R



SLOVAK REPUBLIC
Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: January 17, 2002                            Team Leader: Emily S. Andrews
Country Manager/Director: Roger W. Grawe          Sector Manager/Director: Michal J. Rutkowski
Project ID: P038090                               Sector(s): SI - Pensions & Social Insurance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data    -:. -                                         ,;  j     ,
[X] Loan     1 Credit      C ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    C] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 23.5 million (EUR 26.2 million)
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Commitment fee: 0.85% on undisbursed loan amount for Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
the first four years, beginning 60 days after the loan
agreement is signed, and 0.75% thereafter.
Financing Plan-(US$m).   - Sourcerl     i       -            L'ocik  a. i Forulig- Total
BORROWER                                                       12.60           4.13         16.73
IBRD                                                            1.96          21.58         23.54
Total:                                                         14.56          25.72         40.27
Borrower: SLOVAK REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF LABOR, SOC.INSURANCE AGENCY, NAT'L.LABOR OFFICE
Mr. Peter Magvasi, Minister
Address: Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family
Spitalska 4-6
816 43 Bratislava, Slovak Republic
Contact Person: Mr. Ivan Bematek, Director PCU
Tel: +421-2-5975 2413            Fax: +421-2-5292 5458            Email: bematek(employment.gov.sk
Other Agency(ies):
Mr. Miroslav Knitl, Director
Address: Social Insurance Agency
Ul 29 augusta 10
813 63 Bratislava, Slovak Republic
Contact Person: Ms. Lucia Vagacova, Financial Advisor
Tel: 421-2-5924 8696           Fax: +421-2-5292 3168            Email: Ihaulikova@hotmail.com
Mr. Jaroslav Sumny, Director
Address: National Labor Office
Zupne nam. 5
812 67 Bratislava, Slovak Republic
Contact Person: Rudolf Vido, Director PMU
Tel: +421-2-5933 0420           Fax: +421-2-5441 0422             Email: rudolf.vido@nup.sk



Estimated disbursements (Bank FYlUS$m):
._2t.-0'  g2006
Annual    3.00        8.00      7.00       4.00      1.54
Cumulative    3.00      11.00      18.00     22.00     23.54
Project implementation period: June 2002 - June 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 06/15/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OQs PADFPonn R.Mw5~  O2                             -
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Social Benefit Reform Administration (SBRA) project's primary objective is to support the Government's plans
for pension reform by improving the policy framework and management of its social protection system. First, the
project is intended to assist in the design and implementation of the proposed pension reform upon which
government is embarking. Second, the institution of an individualized client database will provide the
administrative groundwork for the proposed multi-tier pension system. Further, the new collection system will
provide input data for individual records and also reduce tax avoidance and evasion, encouraging participation in
the proposed second-tier pension system. Efficiency gains are also expected through the combined collection of
Social Insurance Agency (SIA) and National Labor Office (NLO) contributions. Administrative improvements
should result in better services to clients (both beneficiaries and contributors) to enhance the public's image of
social insurance. These administrative changes are necessary to develop an efficient social insurance system
operating in a market economy even in the absence of pension reform. A final project goal is the reduction of
work disincentives and fraudulent claims across cash benefit programs through the analysis of integrated data on
all social benefits and social insurance.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*      Pension reform prepared and implementation supported
*      Compliance improved measured by revenues/(average wage*employment)
*      Predictability improved measured by budgeted/actual revenues
*      Effectiveness of adninistration improved measured by stock of arrears/revenues
*      Efficiency of administration improved comparing Slovak costs/revenues to EU average
costs/revenues
*      Client services improved measured by increases in numbers of inquiries received and answered
*      Benefits reforms prepared based on new information and studies
Employment to be measured by labor force survey; wages are those reported by statistical office. Any changes in
payroll tax rates to be normalized in computation; that is, changes in payroll taxes alone do not change
compliance.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. 20232-SK        Date of latest CAS discussion: February 6, 2001
The 2001 CAS, covering the three-year period FY01-03, is the first CAS since Slovakia became a member of the
World Bank Group in January 1993. Improving social security and enhancing human development in Slovakia are
among the key objectives of the Bank's strategy. The proposed Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
(SBRA) will assist Slovakia in establishing a modem, cost-effective and efficient social protection system by: (i)
designing a multi-pillar pension reform; (ii) improving collection and administration of social contributions; and
(iii) strengthening the institutional capacity of MOLSAF, SIA and NLO.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Pension fund balances have been in deficit in recent years due to: (a) higher than anticipated expenditures
resulting from ad hoc pension adjustments to mitigate inflation, and (b) lower than anticipated revenues
because of (i) contribution arrears among state-owned enterprises, (ii) overall reductions in taxable wages
with higher rates of unemployment, and (iii) a flourishing informal sector. Long-term deficits of up to four
- 3 -



percent of GDP have been projected. Expenditures on social assistance have also been high, surpassing
one percent of GDP and covering an unusually large proportion of young people, possibly at the expense of
families.
Government's strategy to reform the social protection system is intended to:
*      Complement the pay-as-you-go pension system with a multi-pillar system;
*      Promote the transition from a benefit-based system to an insurance-based system;
*      Improve social assistance targeting;
*      Address the incentive effects of social assistance on employment; and
*      Make the system more efficient and cost-effective.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The SBRA project addresses a number of issues related to pensions, employment programs, and social
assistance. Overall, it is designed to:
*      Promote the development of a three-tier pension system;
*      Improve recordkeeping for pensions consistent with the development of a market economy;
*      Increase fiscal efficiency to mitigate the size of pension fund deficits; and
*      Improve the targeting of social assistance.
Current impediments to a more efficient social protection system need to be addressed by changes in
legislation, regulation, management practices, operational procedures and the use of information technology
(IT). IT constraints can be identified in contribution collection, client services, and financial management
systems. The strategy selected to generate greater efficiencies in social sector programs is through an
integrated project designed to:
*      Stabilize the pension system through policy reforms and administrative strengthening, establishing
a three-pillar system;
*      Improve the administration and collection of social insurance contributions, taking better advantage
of scale economies supported by effective IT solutions,
a      Create data linkages to monitor and evaluate operations and outcomes across social programs, and
*      Accomplish these objectives with the help of technical assistance, training programs, and the
purchase of goods and equipment.
The current situation, which motivated this strategy, is described in more detail below.
Overview. The Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family (MOLSAF) is responsible for social policy
development and program evaluation. This mandate covers pensions, short-term benefits, employment
programs and social assistance. Two tri-partite organizations are involved in the collection and payment of
pensions and unemployment benefits -- the SIA and the NLO. The SIA is responsible for pension
payments including old-age, survivors and disability. Sick leave and matemity benefits are also a function
of the SIA, but these payments are deducted by employers from their contribution commitments and
subsequently settled with government. The NLO is responsible for paying unemployment benefits,
disbursement of financial compensation for back wages through the Guarantee Fund, and administering
active labor market programs. Social assistance payments are administered separately, through budgetary
financing by the government administration (Ministry of Interior) at the local level.
- 4 -



The current pension scheme is a pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) system, complemented by a small but growing
third tier of voluntary pensions. The PAYGO system has needed short-run budgetary infusions and is in
long-run deficit. As such, it has to be thoroughly overhauled. Pension reform also requires significant
administrative changes in contribution accounting and collection. In particular, an individual client
database is needed, which must be maintained on an ongoing basis. Fully cognizant of these problems,
Government has requested technical assistance for the preparation of a multi-pillar pension system,
including the improvement of medium-term and long-term actuarial forecasts to strengthen its quantitative
basis.
Further, the collection base for pension and other social contributions has been eroding as state-owned
enterprises accumulate arrears and the expanding private section has natural incentives to avoid, if not
evade, all taxes. Procedures in use, developed prior to the introduction of a market economy, impose
inappropriate burdens on employers and do not incorporate effective, modem compliance and enforcement
techniques. Further, the technical competence of internal staff to manage a complicated IT system is
perceived by management to be inadequate under current circumstances, let alone for the development of
completely new IT systems to support the development of a three-tier pension system.
Currently, MOLSAF policymakers do not have sufficient information to conduct cross-program analysis
on recipients of unemployment benefits, social assistance, and other cash-benefit programs because
unemployment benefits and social assistance are administered independently with benefit provision at the
local level. Cross-cutting analysis is needed to efficiently target scarce budgetary and social contribution
resources. In the absence of such analysis, it is difficult to uncover fraud and abuse and to determine the
extent to which programs foster disincentives to work. Consequently, Government has requested technical
assistance for the development of cross-program data bases and the analysis of social assistance and other
social benefits.
Problems in Social Insurance Agency Operations. The SIA is a vertically organized system composed of
a central office in Bratislava and 38 branches supported by smaller district organizations. The branches are
responsible for collecting contributions and paying sickness benefits. Pension clairns are received and
reviewed for completeness at the branches. Once so approved, they are forwarded to Bratislava where
pensions are calculated and awarded. The center also awards disability pensions based on medical and
vocational evaluations made by expert panels at the branch level. Payments usually are made through local
post offices, although ten percent of all pensioners request direct deposits. The information needed to make
awards (years of service, and five highest years of eamings over the last 10 years of employment) is
derived from employment-history cards submitted by employers to the SIA at periodic intervals. These are
maintained at the central offices based on an information retrieval system relying on card imaging.
Current problems in collection procedures include (i) auditing and arrears collection activities that are not
well targeted or timely, (ii) ineffective auditing of sick leave payments, and (iii) a lack of coordination
among revenue authorities. At present, the auditing staff have difficulty in monitoring payments, collecting
arrears, and keeping to the schedule of required inspections. The audit staff operate with both paper
records and computer files for individual payers, which contain duplicate information. Further, the
computer files are not linked. For example, the file on payments and the file on arrears are separate, and
information transfer between the two is done manually. The individual computer files, structured as
stand-alone files, cannot easily be compiled. With one exception, local offices cannot access each other's
files. In terms of procedures, the vast majority of staff time is devoted to ongoing activities and to
situations of bankruptcies. The collection staff does not use early intervention procedures at the moment
when monthly contributions start to decline. When on-site audits of large employers do take place, much of
- 5 -



the inspectors' time is devoted to verifying the accuracy of sick-leave deductions and the payment of family
allowances rather than focusing on collection effectiveness.
Deposits received by the SIA from payers are held in various branches of the General Credit Bank.
Substantial resources at local SIA offices are devoted to confirming that the declared contribution liabilities
have been paid. (Only declared contributions are tracked, actual contribution liabilities are not.) Receipts
from bank deposits are checked against payment obligations and discrepancies are checked. In many areas
this is a cumbersome manual and paper-based operation. As a result, shortfalls in contributions are not
consistently identified in a timely manner. Combined electronic transfer of information from branch banks
would shorten the recognition of delays in contribution collections.
Client data are provided to the SIA for several years at a time and not on a current basis. Under current
procedures, each employer provides aggregate data on its wage bill and information on total numbers of
employees to document contributions for pension and employment programs to each of the agencies.
Individual records come later. This system was satisfactory for a planned economy, and Slovakia's system
was even progressive. But as contributions are now likely to be paid by multiple employers for any one
individual, data losses will be multiplied if employers are required to keep social insurance records.
Individual records are required to achieve Government's plans for a multi-tier pension system as
Government is contemplating using the SIA as a pension clearinghouse. With or without pension reform,
individual client records need to be reported on a current basis for first-tier PAYGO systems if future
pension entitlements are to be correct.
Although collection procedures at the NLO have been improved significantly over the past two years,
employers are still burdened by two agencies and contributors must fund two parallel contribution
structures. The administrative costs of collection and reporting burdens on employers would be smaller if
the SIA and the NLO were unified. The separate collection of contributions for different social programs
imposes undue burdens on employers and results in duplicative public expenditures.
Currently, over 200 employees are working with the SIA's IT systems. Nonetheless, the SIA cannot
compete with the growing private sector for highly skilled programmers and system analysts needed to
redesign the system for pension reform. Further, the current IT system has been patched together by a
series of contracts (38 in 2000), which have taken considerable supervision time and have not provided a
coordinated IT framework. Consequently, SIA management proposes to outsource the design and initial
operation of a new system to support pension reform, followed by subsequent outsourcing of IT operations.
Problems in Monitoring Other Social Programs. The MOLSAF is constrained in its ability to monitor
operational and policy outcomes, as available data have been developed on an ad hoc and single program
basis. Employment programs, unemployment benefits, and social assistance benefits are likely to have
overlapping client populations. For example, when unemployment benefits are exhausted, social assistance
is provided in cases of need. Without integrated data on social benefit programs, including unemployment
insurance, family benefits, and social assistance, the targeting of fraud and abuse is impossible. Similarly,
the development of policies to reduce work incentives cannot be assessed, since program eligibility criteria
are interconnected and program monitoring is not. Thus, improvements in each of these areas are needed to
meet the government's strategic objectives.
The three organizations participating in the project believe that changes in administration and policy should
be coordinated. Such changes will require considerable training and retraining. For that reason,
technical assistance is provided in the project for training in audit and enforcement, IT supervision, new
program operations and evaluation to ensure that procedures are carried out correctly and efficiently.
- 6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
(1) Institutional Strengthening: The component provides technical assistance in five areas to support the
policy design and administrative upgrading objectives of the SIA, MOLSAF, and NLO.
*      pension reform design including actuarial projections;
*      public information for pension reform;
*      human resource training; and
*      establishment of the PCU and PMUs.
(In conjunction with these activities, SIA processes will be evaluated and recommendations made through a
Grant financed by the United States Trade Development Agency. This activity, while outside the SBRA
umbrella, is to be coordinated with the World Bank-financed project.)
(2) Establishment of Unif'ed Contribution Collection System: The component would put in place a modem
infrastructure to process the financial flows to and from the SIA and the NLO. The component would
simplify the procedures for payment filing and declarations, introduce electronic filing for large taxpayers,
and institute targeted audits (audits for cause) and random audits in lieu of periodic audits. It would
improve filing procedures to include information for the client database.
(3) Development of a Client Data Base and other Information Systems: The component would create the
client database of individualized records necessary for a modem public system in a market economy and
for the reform of the pension system from a monopillar to a multi-pillar scheme. It would also finance the
development and implementation of automation systems and infrastructure for the SIA necessary to ensure
efficient and effective delivery of services. It would improve client services in the SIA, as well making
inquiries easier and service faster. In addition, it would facilitate working out potential problems in
assigning individual records, supplementing current procedures to appeal benefit determninations. It would
also support database infrastructure development for employment programs for the MOLSAF and NLO,
and for social assistance, social welfare, and workplace safety for the MOLSAF for program monitoring
and analysis.
-                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~~~~rtiIcatvq~~  (-  % Of-
.-,.,x,..,A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* M@@
(1) Institutional Strengthemnng   Institutional         5.61      13.9      3.71       15.8
Development
(2) Unified Contribution Collection  Pensions & Social  11.89     29.5       6.74      28.6
System                            Insurance
(3) Client Data Base and Other   Institutional         22.77      56.5      13.09      55.6
Information Systems Development   Development
Total Project Costs                   40.27     100.0      23.54     100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                    40.27      100.0     23.54     100.0
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The pension system is currently in deficit, and, like many other one-pillar social insurance systems around
the world, demographic circumstances will quickly lead to completely unsustainable financial deficits.
Thus, Government seeks to transform the pension system into a sustainable multi-tiered system. This is a
major reform that would stabilize the most expensive part of the social protection system and would remove
the potential for crippling deficits in forthcoming years due to demographic trends that are affecting all
European countries.
Changes in the operations of the SIA are a necessary component in the implementation of that reform. In
particular, both the operation of the public pension program (the first tier) and the development of funded
pensions (the second tier) require the implementation of a client database of individual records to track
contributions and monitor individual accounts necessary to determine future pension eligibility. Thus the
SIA will need to be responsible for maintaining individual contribution records for employees and the
self-employed on an ongoing basis. The redesign of the collection and payment system is also necessary in
conjunction with the development of the client data base. In this instance, improvements are required in
terms of the collection of contributions. For greater efficiency, the collection of social contributions for
social insurance and employment programs should be done jointly.
The delivery of short-term benefits for sickness and maternity leave are paid by employers directly and
subtracted from their social insurance benefits and subsequently reimbursed by Government. This
treatment reduces contributions and increases benefit payments, as well as embodying disincentives to
work. The transfer ofpayment responsibilities from employers to the SIA would improve this situation,
as would legislation to require employers to be responsible for the first three days of sick leave payment.
Further, Government seeks to improve coordination across social programs and increase their efficiency by
reducing disincentives created by the complexity and structure of multiple social protection benefits. This
would involve the reduction of disincentives created by the relatively high level of social assistance and
unemployment benefits provided to poor families and linkages with child allowances.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits Sought. The most obvious measurable benefit from the project is in increased contribution
collections to fund pensions, short-term benefits, and employment programs. The project has beenformally
evaluated quantitatively based on the premise that even unrealistically small benefits resulting from
improved collection will more than justify the cost of the project. Thus, if the project only achieves an
increase in contributions of 0.25 percent, the benefits of the project (at a cost of US$40.05 million) will
result in a favorable benefit-cost ratio of 4.2 and a long-run real rate of return on investment of 11.8
percent. Based on the experience of tax reform world-wide, the benefits to collections can be expected to
be much larger. Also, with the lowering of the non-compliance rate, more employees will be contributing
to the pension system and the pension rights accrued will be greater. As a consequence, more current
workers will have more adequate pensions upon retirement.
The benefits of the project, however, are much broader, although they cannot be as easily measured. In
particular, the development of the pension reform is crucial and the returns to the funding of the
consultancies in the project will be substantial as they are expected to improve the structure of the proposed
multi-tier system. Without pension reform, the long-run costs of continuing the current system are
unsustainable given demographic trends, with fiscal deficits increasing gradually to 5 percent annually for
many years into the future. While the benefits of pension reform can be calculated in present value terms,
the Slovak reform is still in the development stage and a precise benefit-cost evaluation is not yet possible.
- 8 -



However, the development of individual records, a significant part of the project, is both necessary for a
modem public system and for the second-tier reform. In other words, without a modern client database,
pension reform is not possible. When pension reform starts without an adequate administrative structure, it
is inevitably less effective as some contributions are mis-directed (Kazakhstan) or are never made (Poland).
Improved services to payers include both reduced reporting burdens, i.e., dealing with fewer tax collection
administrators and, for large employers, reduced burdens in administering sick leave. These reductions will
be larger for firms that habitually make timely tax payments and are most conscientious in administering
sick leave payments. However, the required monthly information on the contributions of individual
workers will represent an increased reporting burden even if the reporting is done through fully electronic
media. On balance, however, these changes would be expected to reduce reporting burdens.
The project also will provide better service to employers, workers and pensioners through improvements in
the benefits application process and faster responses to inquiries. Other efficiencies would accrue to SIA
(and thereby to the population at large) through cost reductions in administration and auditing. For the
SIA, staff time devoted to transferring information from paper records to computer files will decline
substantially. Delays in communications between different offices will be shortened. In general, staff time
in completing administrative tasks will be reduced. For certain improvements in services, the changeover to
the new operational procedures and the new information system will entail offsetting tendencies. The net
effect in terns of time is estimated to be one hour per enterprise per month valued at the level of average
labor compensation. Such efficiencies will also facilitate the development of the services necessary to
implement the second-tier funded pension system.
The value of improved information services to SIA beneficiaries was estimated based on the increased
volume of information provided in the Povazska Bystrica district between 1996 and the first five months of
1997, as a result of improvements in information technology access,. The results for this district were
scaled up to a national total and values were attached to increased services to beneficiaries at the minimum
wage. The increased information services received amounted to an estimated annual amount nationally of
4.4 million in 1997 SK.
Institutional strengthening will lead to more effective operations, better policy evaluation and, as a result,
better policy development. In the area of actuarial analysis, the Government will be able to evaluate
current balances of the reformed pension system to ensure that it remains financially viable in the
long-term, while providing equitable and adequate pensions for the elderly. General improvements in
human resource training within the MOLSAF will lead to a more efficient use of taxpayers' resources.
Target Population: The project will have a direct impact on 2.1 million workers and nearly 0.5 million
unemployed workers through the development of the collection system and the personalized contribution
records. In addition, the improvement of information systems for all social programs and the consequent
improvements in program evaluation and policy analysis will affect all persons receiving social benefits or
social allowances. These include 0.7 million persons receiving family benefits and around 0.2 million
receiving other types of social assistance.



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
1.     Project Management: The project will be implemented over a five-year period by three agencies:
the MOLSAF, the SIA and the NLO. Overall responsibility for the project will rest with the MOLSAF,
where a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been set up. In addition, for the other two participating
agencies (NLO and SIA), small technical Project Management Units (PMUs) have been established to
provide technical oversight to the implementation of their respective activities. To provide policy oversight
and direction for the project as a whole, a Steering Committee, comprising representatives from MOLSAF,
SIA, NLO and the PCU, has been established. The Minister of Labor, Social Affairs and Family will chair
the Committee.
The PCU will be responsible for overall coordination of the activities of the project, in particular, the
common procurement, disbursement and reporting functions. The PCU will function as the liaison between
the Bank and the implementing agency for the project, as well as liaison with the other involved
Government agencies. The PCU will be responsible for: (a) overall financial management of the project,
including handling of disbursements and required reporting procedures (e.g., quarterly project management
reports) for the Bank; and (b) overall management of the procurement process, including processing of
procurement packages and coordination of the bid evaluations. The individual PMUs will be responsible
for technical oversight of their respective components, and all technical background work for the
procurement process, including preparation of terms of reference and technical specifications. To ensure
coordination of the project activities, the PCU and PMUs should meet on a regular basis.
The PCU will comprise seven full-time positions: Director, three Procurement Officers, two Financial
Officers and one administrative Assistants/Interpreter. All three agencies will be represented on this staff,
with individuals from NLO and SIA being seconded to the PCU on a full-time basis for the life of the
project. Activities related to each of the agencies will be implemented by working groups specifically set
up for each of the sub-component activities. These working groups will have responsibility for technical
decisions related to the sub-component activities of the project. Since the PCU staff are not entirely familiar
with Bank-financed projects, technical assistance is provided under the project to give overall support in
project management, implementation and procurement. This technical assistance is in the form of a Senior
Policy/Management Advisor, an Information Technical Advisor and a Procurement Advisor. These
advisors, who will be providing intensive support to the project in the initial stages of project start- up, will
continue to provide support throughout the life of the project, on a declining basis. Each of the two PMUs
in NLO and SIA comprises two full-time positions: Director and Assistant. The Director will be
responsible for organizing managing the working groups in his/her agency. The PMUs will ensure that the
substantive aspects of the project are carried out.
Agreement between Borrower and Implementing Agencies. The Borrower is the Slovak Republic
represented by its Ministry of Finance (MOF). The MOLSAF, the SIA, and the NLO will be the
implementing agencies for the Project. Subsidiary loan agreements will be signed between the MOF and
the SIA and between the MOF and the NLO. Assurances have been obtained from the MOLSAF, the SIA,
and the NLO, that adequate funding, based on the project financing plan, will be made available in a timely
manner and necessary steps will be taken to expedite the procurement procedures related to the major
equipment purchases.
Responsibilities of Project Management:
(i)    To undertake planning, coordination, management, monitoring, and reporting functions for all
activities financed under the project;
- 10-



(ii)   To monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign), process disbursement applications,
and track disbursements of the Loan and Government funds;
(iii)  To maintain project records and accounts;
(iv)   To ensure compliance with the procurement procedures to be agreed upon with the Bank in the
acquisition of equipment and software packages, administration of suppliers' and technical assistance
contracts;
(v)    To ensure consolidation of requests and procurement of goods and services in accordance with
World Bank guidelines;
(vi)   To prepare and maintain a Project Operational Manual with input from technical coordinators in
the SIA and NLO;
(vii)  To ensure preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic reports (Progress Report) to the
relevant government and other participating institutions, including the Bank, reflecting: (a) the status of
implementation progress, problems encountered and corrective actions needed; and (b) current costs of each
project component and estimated costs of completion;
(viii)  To ensure the timely preparation and submission to relevant government institutions and the Bank
of annual audit reports of project expenditures, including period Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and
accounts;
(ix)   To ensure the movement of official documents and contracts through the usual appraisal processes
and undertake measures to expedite their release;
(x)    To ensure the most efficient use of project resources; financial, staffing and time;
(xi)   To develop administrative and operational procedures for this purpose;
(xii)  To ensure coordination with other donor-funded activities to ensure that all externally funded
activities support the medium-term strategy for sector reform; and
(xiii)  To ensure the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months after
project completion.
Disbursement Mechanisms
The proposed project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five years, which is considerably shorter
than the relevant profile in the region (about seven years). This project will be the first investment
operation and the first in the human resource sector in the Slovak Republic. Therefore, the country
disbursement profile of the sector is speculative. However, the shorter implementation period for the
present project reflects the nature of the project as a narrowly focused institutional development project in
support of the Government's social reform program as well as the straightforward nature of the project's
design. Implementation and related disbursements will be facilitated by having defined equipment lists and
agreed terms of reference prior to project implementation (see Chapter III, PIP). The Closing Date will be
December 31, 2007.
All disbursements against contracts for goods exceeding US$100,000, consultant services with firms over
US$100,000, consultant services with individuals over US$50,000, and training over US$20,000 will be
fully documented. For expenditures below that level, disbursements will be made on the basis of certified
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). This documentation will be made available for the required audit as
well as to Bank supervision missions and will be retained by the PCU for at least one year after receipt by
the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. The processing,
disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the Bank Loan and Borrower counterpart
financing will be managed by the PCU in coordination and consultation with the Ministry of Finance.
-11 -



Flow of Funds
The MOF will open a Special Account (SA) in the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) for Bank funds which
will then flow through a budget account for monthly disbursements agreed upon with the World Bank in
accordance with Slovakia's fledgling Treasury system. The Ministry of Finance also will disburse funds
for NLO and SIA expenditures which will be accounted for as funds loaned to these agencies. Subsidiary
loan agreements (so-called 'returnable financial assistance') will be signed between the MOF and the NLO
and SIA regarding the on-lending and flow of funds. All documents relating to replenishment of the SA
and transfer of funds and payments will be prepared by the PCU.
Project Accounts and Audit.
Financial and Audit Reports: The PCU will establish a project financial management system acceptable to
the Bank, which will keep project accounts for all three entities. The TOR for this assignment has been
agreed with the Bank, and funding will be provided under the Loan. As the FM system will not be in place
prior to Board (due to lack of funding, as the Borrower is unable to request a PPF due to local legislation
and no budget funds are available for this CY), the Bank has agreed with the Borrower to establish an
interim FM system at the PCU. All payments under the project will be made through the existing treasury
payment system using existing budget accounting classification numbers. The financial management
system, once established will extract project related financial information from the treasury system and
present it in PMR formats acceptable to the Bank. The interim system will be capable of providing
accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures, including planning,
accounting and financial reporting relating to the project. (However, it will not be able to extract
information from the treasury system and will also not be able to produce reports as required by the local
authorities. This will be resolved once the main system is in place, after project funds are available). The
project accounts will be based on a Chart of Accounts which was drawn-up by the appraisal mission with
the assistance of the PCU. The Chart of Accounts will accommodate the proposed project to capture
sources and uses of funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy PMR-based reporting
requirements. The system will, in addition to producing periodic and cumulative budgeted and actual
expenditures, link the financial data to measures of output and procurement activities of the project. The
Project Management Reporting (PMRs) formats were discussed and agreed with the PCU during project
appraisal.
The PCU will be responsible for coordinating annual project audits and for fulfilling reporting
requirements. The Borrower will also provide to the Bank (within six months of the end of each fiscal year)
an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank on disbursements against certified statements of expenses
(SOEs). The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawal applications.
Internal Controls: The PCU will prepare a draft Operational Manual and include clear delegation and
segregation of duties, clear written standards and procedures, and clear responsibilities, including levels of
authority, and will submit it to the Bank for review by Janaury 31, 2002.
- 12 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project is designed to provide coordinated support to assist the Government of the Slovak Republic in
the design and implementation of pension reform and in improving the effectiveness of other social
programs through policy analysis, expert consultation, information technology upgrading, and monitoring
indicators. The project is designed to address both policy and administrative issues, as successful reforms
cannot focus solely on one or the other.
The following other options for project design were considered.
Administrative Reform Predominant: While there was always a policy evaluation component inherent in
the initial design, a greater degree of policy development was included to support the proposed multi-pillar
pension reform after the new Government decided to pursue this path. Thus, the funds for technical
assistance in policy development were increased. This is a more balanced alternative, as it provides
Government access to international experts in various aspects of pension policy, as well as administrative
reform.
Single Collection and Payment System: Another project alternative considered was to focus only on
improving the collection of contributions for the SIA, rather than joint collection. But with all project
entities eventually committed to joint collection to take advantage of efficiency gains and reduce
duplication, the project was reformulated to unify collections.
SIA Programmers Integral to Project Development: The project was initially designed with programming
a joint effort between the consultant firms selected under the project and SIA programmers. With new SLA
management, it was decided that IT operations in the SIA suffered from overstaffmg. Further, it was found
that the staff were under-qualified since the SIA could not equal salaries provided by the private sector in
Slovakia or abroad. Staff turnover also left few technical experts originally assigned to the project. As a
result, SIA management decided that the programming for the new system should be undertaken entirely
under contract with only oversight provided by SIA technical experts. This new strategy is consistent with
the desire of SIA management to reduce staff by outsourcing IT operations once the new system and
hardware are installed in the SIA.
Inclusion of Operational Policy Design: At its inception, the project was designed to support the financing
of hardware, software and communications, as EU/PHARE had provided considerable assistance in the
area of management reform. However, as further changes in administrative and operational policies were
clearly inescapable, an operational policy consultancy was introduced in the project. Due to delayed
Negotiations, however, as new SIA management considered its options, management and operational
reforms will be financed through a Grant provided by the United States Trade Development Agency. That
contract will focus on the best division of labor for the SIA between the internal provision of services and
outsourcing. The TOR indicates that the grantees are to work closely with the SBRA. Further, any
changes in operational procedures required by the redesign of collections and recordkeeping will be
incorporated in the turnkey contracts. Given project delays, the NLO undertook management restructuring
on its own. Further, the NLO accepted a bi-lateral grant from the Netherlands to evaluate its active labor
market policies outside the project. Hence that TA was also excluded from the final project design.
- 13 -



Inclusion of Health Insurance Collection: Initial interest was expressed to include the joint collection of
health insurance contributions in the project. Contributions are currently collected independently by each
of six health insurance companies, and the collection rate appears to be lower than that of the SIA, as
expenditures have been outstripping health insurance revenues for many years, with a resulting buildup of
arrears. However, the inclusion of a fiscally unstable program could undermine the collection activities of
the SIA. Consequently, once policy reforms in the health care sector are in place, the project is designed in
such a way as to support expansion of SIA operations to collect revenues for health insurance, as well.
Broader IT Initiative: One proposal would have created a central computer system for all data included for
each social program. It was decided that the SIA and the NLO should not be part of an all Government
system, however, as each is an independent public service agency under tri-partite management. Further,
an all-encompassing data system would raise confidentiality issues that are avoided under the current
decentralized data-sharing design.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
To support Government's current   Bulgaria- Social Insurance      HS           HS
reform goals of eliminating the   Administration. US$32 million.
budgetary subsidy for Social Insurance L4081. Board 09/03/96.
Fund and laying the Groundwork of
Bulgaria's system for guaranteeing old
age income security.
To support the development of a more  Latvia - Welfare Reform     HS            HS
efficient and effective social welfare  Project. US$38.56 million.
system.                           L415. Board 05/06/97.
To improve safety-net programs, both  Lithuania - Social Policy &  HS           HS
in the area of policy design and  Community Social
implementation.                   Development Project.
US$12.83 million. LT-15376.
To support the government's program  Hungary - Pension             S            S
of restructuring the health sector to  Administration and Health
focus on more effective interventions  Insurance Project. US$195.6
through strategic investments in health  million. L3596. Board
and selected institutional services.  04/20/93.
To provide technical assistance to  Albania - Social Safety Net    S            S
Government in reforming its systems of Development Project. US$6.2
social protection in order to alleviate  million. C2543. Board
the disruption resulting from the  09/14/93.
economic transition.
- 14 -



To promote employment, investment,  Poland - Employment           S             S
and economic growth by improving  Promotion Project. US$142.2
labor force development programs.  million. L3338. Board
05/15/91.
To strengthen the capacity of the labor Romania - Employment and   S            S
offices to administer benefits and active social Protection. US$95.2
labor adjustment services, labor offices million. L3849. Board
to administer benefits and active labor  03/07/95.
adjustment services
Other development agencies
Other development agencies have not  capacity by EU/PHARE and
funded complete projects of this type.  USAID in a number of
Funding has been provided for     countries but without
organizational change and actuarial  supporting and coordinated IT
purchases.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The implementation of pension reform and administration projects in the ECA region has shown that
success depends on: (i) support from the authorities at the highest level in the implementing agencies; (ii)
the willingness to accept technical assistance; (iii) clear linkages between operational reforms and the
investment in information systems; (iv) the development of appropriate software to support operational
reforms; (v) the development of software applications prior to the purchase of hardware; (vi) the
development of a committed and well-trained PCU to implement the project; (vii) adequate training of staff
to use the new procedures; and (viii) coordinated policy objectives across Govemment and the agencies
involved in the project. Further, successful pension reform depends on successful administrative reform.
In Slovakia, support of the project depended upon the willingness of the new Government to place the Loan
in its annual Budget. It then depended on the agreement of the three participating organizations, plus the
MOF, during a period in which the heads of each organization, the MOF, the MOLSAF, the NLO, and the
SIA, were changing. Such agreement was reached after a very lengthy process of discussion and appraisal
update which created an firm understanding of project goals and activities. Although this took considerable
patience, support for the project is now strong.
The following objectives have been satisfied in designing the Project:
(i) The Minister of Labor, Social Affairs and Family and the Directors of the SIA and NLO personally
support the PCU and project development; the Deputy Prime Minister also personally supports project
development, particularly as it will provide the basis for the pension reform. The project has now been
supported by sectoral Ministers in two administrations so that it is, in concept, a non-partisan undertaking;
(ii) All key stakeholders, including business and labor, support the project. As the Boards of the NLO and
the SIA are tripartite, the project would not have been approved without the support of these constituencies.
The Minister of Labor, Social Affairs and Family also heads the Board of Directors of the SIA and that of
the NLO;
(iii) To ensure an efficient project start-up, the PCU was put in place prior to Negotiations with staff
selected and appropriate training initiated;
(iv) Two of the components include turnkey operations which include technical assistance that is central to
the project; the authorities have selected this approach as the most efficient one. In addition, the first
component provides technical assistance, which the MOLSAF requested for the development of a
- 15-



successful pension reform;
(v) Software development is closely linked to hardware installation in the project design;
(vi) Staff training (both managerial and technical) is an integral part of the project design.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
(i) The project provides continuation to earlier EU/PHARE funding intended to improve operational
procedures and the development of an IT acquisition plan. Consequently, in terms of operational content,
the project has long been a part of the MOLSAF's long-term development agenda. Further, the new SIA
leadership qualified for Grant funding from the U.S. Trade Development Agency to improve operational
procedures, an underlying objective of the project.
(ii) Prior to updating the project appraisal, the Bank received a joint letter from the Minister of Labor,
Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance requesting that the project be developed as a Loan to
Government. This letter was significant, as project preparation had been lengthy due to a series of delays.
Initiallym the MOF and the National Bank of Slovakia expressed hesitancy regarding financial issues,
despite the strong support of the MOLSAF. The inclusion of the Loan in the 2001 budget indicated that
these issues had been resolved.
(iii) All parties support joint collection. Legislation to authorize joint collection is anticipated by the end
of the first quarter of 2002. Further, a joint-agency working group is to be nominated to resolve all
appropriate organizational and technical issues to enable joint collection to operate successfully.
(iv) The management of the SIA has confirmed its approval of the current project design after considerable
reflection about agency requirements, including the use of outsourcing for computer operations. Earlier,
the SIA started to work with the tax administration to share information to improve collection activities;
(v) A Steering Committee for the Project has been established; members with decision-making powers on
technical issues include the MOLSAF, the SIA, and the NLO.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank is a proven leader in coordinating dialogue on pension reform and has helped many
countries in the region develop successful multi-pillar systems. Bank experience in this area is unique as it
combines policy dialogue, technical assistance, and investment support. The Bank expects to enter into an
intensive dialogue with the Slovak government supplementing the provision of technical assistance to
support pension reform with its own economic analysis. Because of the Bank's experience with social
insurance implementation projects, it is in a position to provide funding for improvements in the
information technology system required by the SIA. Although the SIA has instituted some changes during
the period of project delay, particularly in the area of management and organization, recent fiscal
constraints stopped the SIA from progressing sufficiently to create a central client database on its own or to
institute fully modem methods to increase the collection of contributions. Through World Bank funding,
this objective can be achieved more rapidly, and given pension-reform target dates, speed is of the essence.
If the project were to be delayed further, contribution compliance could decline rapidly, as increased
privatization is expected to come on the heels of the recent economic downturn, potentially reducing
contributions in both the formal and infornal sectors. A World Bank-financed project in Bulgaria with a
similar structure has been rated as highly satisfactory. The same World Bank team assigned to this
proposed project was also involved in the development and supervision of the Bulgaria project. The Bank
is also well placed to help coordinate dialogue across agencies facilitating unified social reform policies.
Lastly, the commitment by the Government at the highest levels to institute pension reform and improve
social program development can serve as an example to other countries in the region which have been
considering a re-design in their pension and/or administrative systems.
- 16 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$159 million; ERR = 11.8 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The following direct benefits flow from the project: (i) an improved consolidated budget fiscal balance
through pension reform, (ii) improved tax compliance, (iii) improved services to beneficiaries, (iv)
improved services to payers, and (v) reduced administrative costs. It is easier to identify the benefits from
the project, however, than to develop estimates of the quantitative importance of each of them.
Ultimately, the greatest benefit of the project will be the return to fiscal sustainability through the
development of a multi-tier pension system. This project will support that result through technical
assistance by international and local experts in the design of the pension reform and through the
development of a client database of personalized accounts, which is crucial to the administration of the
reform. Until the reformn provisions are determined exactly, however, the very real benefits of these
activities cannot be calculated. And, of course, it would be difficult to estimate these benefits with and
without the project, but presumably better technical assistance and a quicker implementation of better
administration will allow the Slovak Republic to reap the benefits of reform faster and more efficiently.
A straight-forward benefit-cost analysis of joint collection shows that improvements in the information
system and associated changes in operational procedures at the SIA, NLO and MOLSAF would yield large
benefits. Calculations undertaken by the Bank indicate that the benefit-cost rations will equal 4.2 if
contributions increase by an extremely small 0.25 percent and that long-run real rates of return on
investments in the new system equal 11.8 percent, above the cost of borrowing.
The benefit-cost calculations undertaken by the Bank are based on an assumed investment of US$40
million to be spent during the five years June 2002-June 2007. After all elements of the new information
systems are fully in place, benefits are assumed to accrue in all later years. Benefits are estimated using a
simulation model that extends through the year 2030, i.e., actual benefits will start to accrue much earlier,
but the Bank is following a conservative approach that allows for the resolution of informational
bottlenecks and other problems during the initial years of operation of the new system. The net effect of
this approach, which defers all benefits until the project is fully implemented, is to underestimate the
benefit-cost ratio and real rate of return below the actual expected value.
Improved services to payers will include both reduced reporting burdens, i.e., dealing with fewer tax
collection administrations and (for large employers) reduced burdens in administering sick leave payments.
The reductions will be larger for firms that habitually make timely tax payments and are most
conscientious in administering sick leave payments. However, requiring monthly information on the
eamings of individual workers will represent an increased reporting burden on payers even if the reporting
is done through fully electronic media. On balance, these changes would be expected to reduce reporting
burdens. For the present calculations, however, it is conservatively assumed that these factors offset each
other, so that the net burden on payers is unchanged from the present system.
- 17-



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
The MOF informed the mission that the budget for 2001 included SK 1.95 billion for project expenditures
financed from the Loan. As the Loan was not signed in 2001, the same amount should be included in the
2002 budget. In addition, current expenditures on the project are also included. The Government expects
to establish a Special Account for the project and provide monthly disbursements from that account
through the budget assuming exchange rate risk. All authorizations for project expenditures will be
provided by the PCU to the MOF. The MOF will enter into subsidiary agreements with NLO and SIA for
the Loan funds be provided to those entities. The subsidiary agreements with the SIA and NLO are as
secure as the Government's own direct debt since the SIA and NLO deficits are contained in the Slovak
Republic's consolidated budgetary revenues and expenditures, despite their tri-partite management status.
Thus, any debt incurred on the behalf of the SIA and NLO is a component of overall economic policy
rather than stand-alone debt incurred by independently operating economic agents. Further, given the
cost-benefit ratios projected above, the gains from the project can easily finance all the debt incurred by
these agencies under the project.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the reform of the pension system, which is supported by technical assistance under the
project, will be substantial but it cannot be estimated prior to the detailed design of the pension reform.
Nonetheless, it is important to note that the entire rationale for the reform is to eliminate the unsustainable
long-run PAYGO deficit. Once this deficit is removed, the new system would be sustainable in future
years after the initial phase-in period. Of course, the transitional costs of the reform would need to be
financed through an increased state budget deficit unless steps were taken to reduce other budgetary
expenditures. Such transition costs are normal and do not lead to fiscal imbalances, particularly as they
tend to be partially funded through government debt held in second tier accounts, and are eventually offset
in the longer-run by budgetary surpluses afforded by the second-tier.
Improvements in compliance realized under the project will reduce the consolidated budget deficit (or
increase a surplus) by the amount of additional contributions collected. This will also help reduce the
transition costs of the pension reform. Lastly, improved collections will lead to increases in individual
entitlements that would have otherwise been lower. Improved entitlement rates and longer contribution
histories will reduce the need for social assistance among pensioners who would have been in poverty had
their old-age pensions been lower. The reduction in social pensions will improve the government budget.
3. Technical:
The policy development technical assistance reflects current practice in pension policy design and program
evaluation used in OECD and ECA countries. Further, both pension reform and the reform of cash-benefit
programs have a long history of policy analytic and evaluative studies by highly respected researchers, so
that efforts in this area have a firm intellectual foundation.
Organizational changes to be implemented in this project will reflect best practice in social program
agencies in OECD and ECA countries. The client-service principles followed in this design will lead to
more flexible and efficient organizations saving time of both clients and staff. The computer system
solutions (computer equipment and software necessary to upgrade capacity for statistical analysis, actuarial
modeling, evaluation of performance of social programs) represents a good balance between function and
cost. It uses a combination of object-oriented and traditional approaches to data management. All
software will be fully tested before implementation nation-wide.
- 18 -



Investment and recurrent cost estimates for the project are based on estimates of prevailing market unit
costs (including experience in procurement under Bank-financed projects in other transition economics)
with appropriate allowances for inflation. An adequate allowance for physical contingencies has also been
included in project costs.
4. Institutional:
This is the first World Bank investment loan that the Government of the Slovak Republic has undertaken.
For that reason, all project entities will require greater than usual training and education about Bank
procedures. Given the commitment to the project, with sufficient resources, government officials, staff, the
PCU and the PMUs should quickly gain the institutional capacity to report to the Bank, follow Bank
procedures, and execute the project. Nonetheless, institutional rivalries could be a problematic factor. The
PCU staff are already highly committed to ensuring the success of the project.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family; Social Insurance Agency; National Labor Office.
4.2 Project management:
The project will be managed by a PCU established within the MOLSAF, with staff taken from the three
participating organizations and on secondmnent to these positions. In addition, there will be a PMU each in
the SIA and NLO to facilitate the technical implementation and selection of contractors and consultants.
The structure of the PCU and the two PMUs is intended to reduce unnecessary friction between the three
independent organizations by ensuring that they are all involved and all have technical autonomy in their
own fields of activity. The proposed technical assistance and training for the PCU staff under the project
will help to deepen the PCU's capacity to manage more complex tasks in the areas of financial
management, procurement, accounting and reporting.
4.3 Procurement issues:
As the implementation arrangements have changed quite substantially since the initial plan was
formulated, a new Procurement Plan has been prepared accordingly to reflect these changes. A detailed
presentation on procurement of IT equipment was provided for members of all three institutions that will
participate in the implementation of the Project. Procurement methods are to follow the World Bank
guidelines independently from the Slovak public procurement law, and independently of the method of
disbursement.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The PCU financial staff has no prior experience with Bank-financed projects. To mitigate this problem,
funding has been provided under the project to enable the financial officer to participate in a Bank
approved project financial management course. An Operational Manual, which is currently being drafted
and is expected to be provided to the Bank prior to the Board date in February 2002, clearly specifies all
the fiduciary responsibilities of the PCU, including the responsibilities of the individual staff, procedures
and guidelines for authorization of payments. The project financial management system will have the
relevant safeguards to protect data entry and data integrity. Procurement procedures will be closely
monitored by the Bank. The project will be audited on an annual basis by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
None
- 19 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social issue related to the project is the provision of a sustainable, efficient, client-oriented social
protection system for the population of the Slovak Republic. Outcomes will be determined by measures of
pensions to the average wage; unemployment rates by age and gender and by regional unemployment rates.
Government will be calculating replacement rates for pensioners as part of the pension reform preparation
in conjunction with its actuarial analysis. The MOLSAF will coordinate with the State Statistical Agency
to monitor income and wage data.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders are represented on the Board of Directors of the NLO and that of the SIA. They will be
regularly informed on the progress of the project. Discussions will be held with key stakeholders, including
the Supervisory Boards and others, such as pensioner groups, as part of supervision and during the
mid-term review.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations with employers and employees will take place through the project reports distributed for
review to the two tripartite Supervisory Boards for the NLO and SIA.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Staffing and training will be provided to ensure that the new policies, operational procedures, and IT
enhancement will be used by the participating organizations. Further, the project develops monitoring
criteria within the MOLSAF so that program performance can be evaluated and changes made when
necessary. Statistical indicators, including State Statistical Agency data on unemployment and population
welfare, will indicate whether the objectives are being met.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
See monitoring mechanisms described within the project, Annex I.
- 20 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do jns ol fihc flo1u0%ing ;afqcujrd policies ap&  lO ihc projecl`
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The very purpose of introducing a pension reform is to ensure the sustainability of the system. Multi-tiered
pension system, once designed and established under law, have never been overturned in the ECA region.
In the Slovak Republic, framework multi-tier pension legislation has been passed by Parliament. A task
force has been appointed and has been working on these issues constructively for some time. There is
considerable documented nonpartisan understanding that the current pension system is not sustainable in
the future. Further, policymakers at MOLSAF, officials at the SIA, and the Deputy Prime Minister for the
Economy all support the reform. In fact, the strength of the support from the social agencies is unusual.
For the MOLSAF and the SIA, the project's main purpose is to support the design of the pension reform,
including technical assistance and information technology. However, even without pension reform, the
improvement of administrative procedures supports system sustainability. Without better collection
procedures, including auditing and enforcement, revenues for social contributions will decline as
profit-making businesses have incentives for tax avoidance. Similarly, without individual records,
contribution records will suffer losses, as recordkeeping will suffer with the births and deaths of businesses
and the reluctance of employers to maintain records on the behalf of government. Once new procedures are
instituted, old procedures will be supplanted.
With regard to other policies, while the Slovak Republic currently has one of the better social protection
systems in ECA, there is serious interest in improving that system through better policy analysis.
Government has long shown willingness to make changes in social policy. For instance, unemployment
benefits have been cut back in response to budgetary restrictions. Similar changes in the treatment of the
unemployed have included reductions in social assistance provided to strengthen work incentives and the
establishment of a public works program for the long-term unemployed.
In addition to assisting Government to design a sustainable pension system and improve policy analysis,
this project will develop the operational and/or monitoring capacity of the MOLSAF, the SIA, and the
- 21 -



NLO. The changes in operations implemented in the project are permanent and necessary to support
pension reform. The implementation of new information technology and a changed organizational
structure will preclude a return to old methods. As the new procedures are intended to be both cost saving
and quality enhancing, Govenmment is strongly in favor of their implementation. High borrower ownership
is reflected in their continued active participation in preparation activities across two elected governments.
The project is non-partisan in that regard. The costs of maintaining the new activities will be included in
and integral to the budgets of the relevant entities. Once the new information technology systems are
established, old systems will be abolished and the participating agencies will have cut all ties to the old
procedures.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
(i) Procedures not established and           S         (i) Close supervision of project preparation and
followed by SIA, MOLSAF and NLO;                       implementation.
reports not presented and considered by
MOLSAF NLO and SIA;
recommendations not implemented;
monitoring reports not issued.
(ii) Procedures not established and          M         (ii) Close supervision of implementation.
followed by SIA for individual accounts;
employers and employees notified of new
requirements.
(iii) Procedures not established and         S         (iii) Agreement on timetable for legislative
followed by SIA and NLO to improve                     changes with independent SIA collection if
collections.                                           deadline not met; close supervision of
implementation
From Components to Outputs
(i) Organizational changes and staff        M          (i) Close supervision of project implementation.
turnover reduce the effectiveness of
international technical assistance and
training;
(ii) Offices, office furnishings and office  M         (ii) Assurances prior to Negotiations.
equipment are not in place;
(iii) Office Staff are not in place;         N         (iii) Assurances prior to Negotiations.
(iv) Staff for maintenance of hardware       M         (iv) Close supervision of project
and software are not in place;                         implementation.
(v) Comprehensive training is not           M          (v) Close supervision of project implementation.
provided to staff at all levels in new or
expanded offices;
(vi) Comprehensive training is not          M          (vi) Close supervision of project
provided to staff at all levels for new                implementation.
technology;
(vii) Training is not provided to staff at  M          (vii) Close supervision of project
all levels for new procedures and client               implementation.
orientation;
- 22 -



(viii) Procurement of major equipment is     M         (viii) Close supervision of project
not timely.                                            implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
There are additional risks not indicated above. The project has had a difficult preparation history. While
MOLSAF has been consistently committed to the project, at the end of 1998, the MOF was troubled about
entering into a Loan with the Bank. However, the Loan was placed in the State Budget for 2001, signaling
support. To mitigate the risk of declining MOF support, the MOLSAF has submitted estimates of project
costs which have been included in the draft State Budget for 2002.
A new administration and new appointments at the MOLSAF, the NLO, and the SIA led to post-election
slowdowns in the final Appraisal Update, as it took some time for each new minister or director to become
familiar with the project. With delays, different project entities found alternative ways to address some of
the proposed project activities, thereby affecting the design of the project. With elections forthcoming in
2002, this could be a risk again. The main mitigating factor for this risk is the fact that, at the end of the
day, two different governments have supported the project. Further, as this will be an active Loan prior to
elections, it would be more difficult for a new Government to make changes as it would require changes in
a Loan Agreement that had already been signed by Government and supported by the SIA and NLO.
Initially, the NLO feared joint collection implemented by the SIA. Joint collection legislation is still not in
force and it would be unfortunate if the lack of legislative framework were to slow down joint collection.
Nonetheless, this risk of bringing this component of the project to a standstill is mitigated as collection
improvements can be undertaken for the SIA alone, with the possibility to add joint contribution collection
afterwards. Joint collection was successfully added to the Bulgaria Social Insurance Administration project
that is similarly structured, including collection of personal income tax withholding. That project was rated
highly satisfactory by the team and by a supervision quality assessment. The MOLSAF now has indicated
that legislation that will enact joint collection into law is anticipated by the end of the first quarter of 2002.
Another possible risk is created through the separate Grant contract with the U.S. Trade Development
Agency, which is outside the project. This risk is mitigated by the explicit reference to supporting the
World Bank Project indicated in the Terms of Reference for this assignment.
A fifth risk arises because the project must be implemented by three separate entities. Multi-entity projects
are more difficult to manage due to potential coordination conflicts that could deteriorate into conflicting
priorities. This risk will be managed through the establishment of a PCU composed of staff from all three
agencies and housed separately under the MOLSAF. Technical decisions for separate parts of the project
will be the responsibility of the individual entities. Further, a Steering Committee comprising the
leadership of the two agencies and the PCU Director has been established to deal with project priorities on
an ongoing and timely basis.
A sixth risk entails internal and external resistance to the anticipated policy reforms, particularly those of a
multi-tier pension system. To mitigate external risks, the MOLSAF intends to fund a series of intensive
public relations campaigns to educate the public about the need for reform. Such a public information
campaign was crucial to the pension reform in Poland and successfully gamered public support for the
reform. To mitigate internal risks, the MOLSAF has requested technical assistance by international
experts in policy design, modeling and fiscal analysis to ensure that the reform is up to best-practice
- 23 -



standards and to fully inform other government entities about the sustainability and fiscal probity of the
proposed reform.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no controversial aspects to the project. The technical assistance provided to support the
development of pension reform follows methods successfully used to support reforms in other transition
economies such as FYR Macedonia. The final detenrination of the reform will be conducted
democratically through the political process. The technical assistance and IT improvements used to
support the development of a multi-tier system and improve the operation of the public system have been
part of World Bank-financed projects in other transition economies, such as Bulgaria.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Two subsidiary Loan agreements will be signed by Government, one between Government and the SIA
and the other between Government and the NLO.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition of Board Presentation:
Preparation of a draft Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank.
Other Conditions:
*   Maintenance of Project Coordination Unit in the MOLSAF, with staff, resources, facilities and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
*   Maintenance of a joint working group of the MOLSAF, SIA and NLO to address the administrative
aspects of joint collection of social contributions for pensions, sickness benefits, maternity allowances,
accident insurance and employment program contributions.
*   Maintenance of policies and procedures by the MOLSAF, SIA, and NLO adequate to enable them to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, and to carry out a mid-term
review of theProject by January 21, 2005.
H. Readiness for Implementation
EI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
i 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
L 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
III 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 24 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Emily .Aidrews                   Mi   I J. RuLtkowski             Roger W. Grakve
Team Leader                      S   tar Manager/Dir              Country Manager/Director
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
H a yt   KePdforwIance         -Data.CdtNdWp                    Criica A
Hierarchy of ObjecivesIdic                    t d                                            Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:            Sectorl country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*   Provide stability to pension  Reduced pension deficits under  * Annual actuarial reports;  * Reduction of pension deficits
system;                        reformed system;                                             over long term is combined with
pension reform that keeps
recipients out of poverty;
* Improve labor market         * Unemployment rates decline;  * Unemployment rates from     . Active labor market programs
flexibitliy and outcomes;     regional unemployment rates    Labor Force Survey and         are not designed to create an
equalize;                      registered unemployed;        underclass of the poor which
reduces economic growth.
* Improve targeting of social  * Reduction in depth of poverty. * Estimates of poverty rates  * Targeting of social assistance
assistance.                                                  based on Census and other survey does not create an underclass of
data.                         the poor which reduces economic
growth.
- 26 -



1     Key Performance          Data Collection Strategy |
Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators,                                      |   Critical Assumptions
Project Development          Outcome / Impact             Project reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
*  Improve quality of pension  * Pension reform prepared and  * Review actuarial projections;  * Pension reform lowers
reform design;               implementation supported;    policy actions taken;         projected deficits;
- Increase compliance for social *  Compliance improved   * Review compliance measured  * Increased revenues reduce
contributions;               measured by revenues/(average  by revenues/average         pension deficit in long run and in
wage*employment).            wage*employment              short run absent pension reform;
Note: Employment to be
measured independtly by labor
force survey; wages from
statistical agency; changes in
payroll taxes to be adjusted for
and will not affect compliance.
*  Improve effectiveness of  *   Predictability improved  * Review predictability of    * Administrative reforms lead to
administration of social     measured by budgeted/actual  revenues measured by          greater efficiency and lower
contributions                revenues                     budgeted/actual revenuew      administrative costs;
* Effectiveness of administraion * Review effecitvness of
improved measured by stock of  administration measured by stock
arrears/revenues             of arrears/revenues
* Efficiency of administration  * Review efficiency of
improved comparing Slovak    administration measured by
costs/revenues to EU average  Slovak cost/revenue to EU figur
costs/revenues               es
* Improve image of social    * Client services improved   * Review annual client        * Improved image leads to
insurance institutions;      measured by increases in     satisfaction surveys conducted on greater satsifaction and higher
numbers of inquiries received  a comparative basis        compliance
and answered
*  Improve quality of        * Benefits reforms prepared.  * Review benefits reforms    * Active labor market programs
employment and social programs;                                                         designed to promote job growth
without deadweight losses;
Social assistance targeting
focused on the poor and
vulnerable.
- 27 -



Key PerformnAce           Data Collection Strategy
! Hierarchy of Objectives               l Iicators                                             Critical Assumptions
Output from each               Output Indicators:            Project reports:               (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
* Pension reform prepared and  * Pension reform analysis     * Project supervision; consultant * Procedures established and
implementation supported;      completed; information software reports completed and approved  followed by SIA, MLSAF, and
and WAN in place;                                            NLO; reports presented and
considered by MLSAF, NLO and
SIA; recommendations
implemented; monitoring reports
issued.
.   Establishment of a modem   * Client database established;  * Project supervision        * Procedures established and
automated pension system based                                                              followed by SIA for individual
on individual accounts capable of * Individual contribution records                         accounts; employers and
supporting a multi-pillar      maintained;                                                  employees notified of new
structure; and establishment of                                                             requirements;
information systems            * Client accounting maintained
* Funds accounting introduced
* Management informational
available and used by managers
* Evaluation and monitoring data used
to improve prograno efficiency and
inform policy change;
* Unified contribution collection
system established and sustained;
- 28 -



F-                            |     Key Performance         1 Data Collection Strategy |
JHierarchy of Objectives              Indicators                                            Critical Assumptions
Project Components /          Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:               component)                                                  Outputs)
Institutional Strengthening:  US$5.6 million
* Pension reform design       * Technical assistance and    * Project supervision         * Organizational changes and
including actuarial projections  training for each area;                                  staff turnover do not reduce the
* Public information for pension                                                          effectiveness of technical
reform;                       * Computer equipment and      * Quarterly disbursement reports assistance and training;
* Assessment of social program  software.                   for each sub-component
interactions and development of                                                           * Offices, office furnishing and
monitoring criteria;                                                                      office equipment in place;
* Human resource training; and
* Establishment of the PCU and                                                            * Staffing of offices in place.
PMUs.
Establishment of Unified      US$11.9 million
Contribution Collection System
* Compliance issues study;    * Project supervision         * Staff for supervision of
* Network design              * Quarterly disbursement reports hardware and software in place
* System design;              for each sub-component        * Comprehensive training is
* Telecom infrastructure                                    provided to appropriate staff at
* System infrastructure;                                    all levels for new technology;
* Application development;                                  . Training is provided to staff at
all levels for new procedures and
client orientation;
* Procurement of major
equipment purchases is made in
timely manner;
* Legislation in place for joint
collection.
* Agreements in place between
SIA and NLO;
* Outsourcing contract for
system operations completed by
SIA to take over operations once
development concluded
Development of Information    US$22.8 million
Systems:
. Database servers, software and *  Project supervision     * Comprehensive training is
management                                                  provided to staff on new system;
* Information system design;  * Quarterly disbursement reports * Agreements are made on data
* Design Social Sector        for each sub-component        sharing;
Statistical System;                                          . Staff in place to evaluate and
- Production database and IT                                 disseminate monitoring
Infrastructure;                                              information.
* Outsourcing contract for
system operations completed by
SIA to take over operations once
development concluded
-29 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$5.60 million
Institutional Development
This component will finance technical assistance, training, office equipment, hardware and software to
improve the institutional capacity of the MOLSAF, the SIA, and the NLO. In particular, it will provide
technical assistance to assist the MOLSAF in the development of a multi-pillar pension reforrn. The
component targets a number of critical areas in the MOLSAF: (i) support for pension reform including
technical assistance for multi-pillar design, (ii) training on actuarial projections, (iii) public information
campaigns to support pension reform, (iv) policy analysis for other social programs, and (vi) human
resource training.
Activities to be carried out under the component are:
*   Technical assistance to support pension reform at the MOLSAF
* Technical assistance, training and computer equipment and software to successfully provide public
information on supplementary pensions and the multi-pillar reform
*   Technical assistance, training, computer equipment, and software necessary to upgrade capacity for
actuarial projections and policy simulations with the institution of a multi-pillar system in the
MOLSAF
*   Technical assistance to expand human resource training in the MOLSAF for social program staff;
*   Technical assistance to provide the additional capacity needed in the MOLSAF, SIA, and NLO to
manage the implementation of the World Bank financed project.
In conjunction with these activities, SIA business processes will be evaluated and recommendations made
through a Grant financed by the United Sates Trade Development Agency. This activity, while outside the
SBRA umbrella, is to be coordinated with the World Bank funded project. That coordination is explicitly
included in the terms of reference for the Grant, and, as such is an important supplement to the project that
would have been included had the Grant funding not become available.
Project Component 2 - US$11.90 million
Establishment of Joint Contribution Collection System
This component will finance technical assistance, hardware, software and services to put in place and
manage an efficient infrastructure to process the financial flow to and from the social sector agencies,
initially, for the collection of social insurance contributions and employment program contributions. This
component will be responsible for the shift in responsibilities for unemployment insurance and wage
guarantee fund contributions from the NLO to joint collection under the SIA. It will ensure that
recordkeeping on contributions for individual employees is coordinated with the client database needed for
pension reform. After system development, the operation of the system is to be implemented through
outsourcing financed jointly by the SIA and NLO. The new contribution collection system will free the
NLO and SIA from heavy administrative burdens, allowing them to focus its managerial and staff attention
on the objectives for which they are responsible. Moreover, this change will create an organization that
will focus its managerial and staff resources on improving compliance. The organization will operate
based on highly automated information systems and a well-trained team of auditors and investigators to
- 30 -



detect cases of non-filing and under-filing of declarations, and fraud and abuse among recipients of
benefits. A further benefit to the economy will be derived from reduced costs of compliance. This
component will simplify the procedures for payment filing and of declarations, introduce electronic filing
for large taxpayers, institute targeted audits (audit for cause) and random audits instead of periodic audits.
Activities that will be financed include technical assistance to (i) automate the detection of early signs of
non-compliance -- non-filing, stop-filing and misfiling, (ii) target taxpayers better through the adoption of
country and regional audit strategies and annual audit plans that focus the attention of auditors on sectors
of the economy and on taxpayers who may provide the highest payoff, (iii) automate audit selection, and
(iv) improve the ratio of auditors per audit.
Activities under this component will include:
Joint Collection System and Client Services
*   Technical assistance to determine the current main causes of non-compliance and to establish a
methodology for similar determinations in the future.
*   Technical assistance to develop plans for joint collection and improvements in compliance. The SIA
and NLO should approve the plans including the cost structure under joint collection.
*   Technical assistance to design and implement systems intended to provide necessary information to
NLO under joint collection
*   Technical assistance, databases, hardware and software needed to design, develop and implement
contribution collection system.
*   Technical assistance to design and implement wide and municipal area networks and network
management
*   Technical assistance, hardware and software needed to develop standards, design, and implement a
global security and disaster recovery system.
*   Technical assistance, databases, hardware and software needed to design and pilot test the information
kiosk concept.
Audit and Enforcement
*   Technical assistance to review and make recommendations for improvement of the legal framework for
unified auditing and for enforcement. This will include the development of draft protocols for
exchange of information between agencies of the social sector and with key agencies outside the social
sector such as tax administration and customs.
*   Technical assistance to develop an audit strategy for the SIA including:
- methodology for the development of annual audit plans, development of an audit plan for the year 2002, and
training for selected staff.
- criteria for static and dynamic automatic selection of cases for auditing and procedures for detection of
non-filers, stop-filers, and misfilers.
- methodology for evaluation of the effectiveness of audit plans and train selected staff on its use
- audit handbooks for general auditing
- audit handbooks for two or three specialized sectors of the economy that require specific auditing techniques
such as financial institutions, multinationals, etc.
- recommendations for the establishment of a permanent training program for the collection system.
*   Technical assistance, specialized training and application software development needed to institute
auditing, investigation, and arrears management capacity.
Project Component 3 - US$ 22.80 million
Development of Client Database and Information Systems to Support Social Sector Programs
- 31 -



This component will support the technical assistance, hardware, and software needed to imnplement a client
database of personalized accounts that are necessary for the development of a multi-pillar pension system,
for accurate assignment of contributions and for accurate crediting of sick leave. This component also will
finance technical assistance, hardware, software, and services to improve the information systems and
automation infrastructure that support the operations of the social sector of the Slovak Republic. Its focus
will be on improving through automation and information systems the managerial, administrative, and
operational capacity to improve the delivery social benefits to the population. Under the activities managed
by the SIA, the project will finance the development and implementation of the automation systems and
infrastructure to ensure efficient and effective delivery of services primarily through a large outsourcing
contract. The project will support data base development for MOLSAF operations and for each of the
following social programs: social assistance, social welfare, and occupational safety. The project will
support technical assistance, hardware and software needed by the NLO to operate under the new joint
collection procedures.
Activities under this component will include for the MOLSAF, SIA, and NLO:
*   An application environment to support individual client accounting for pensions and sickness
insurance;.
*   Technical assistance, hardware and software needed to design and implement the MOLSAF, SIA, and
NLO database environments;
*   Migration of data from old sources to new individual client databases;
*   Development and purchase of off-the-shelf software, and implementation of administrative and
financial management systems;
*   Definition and implementation of client (employers and beneficiaries) oriented systems to support client
services and direct information flows.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
Local       Foreigrnr.     Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million:  US $mfliort  US $million
1. Institutional Strengthening                            2.79         2.10         4.89
2. Unified ContributionCollection System                  3.17         7.04         10.21
3. Client Database and Other Information Systems          6.24        13.34         19.58
Development
Total Baseline Cost                                      12.20        22.48         34.68
Physical Contingencies                                   0.80         1.99          2.79
Price Contingencies                                      1.56         1.24         2.80
Total Project Costs'             14.56        25.71        40.27
Front-end fee                                 0.00
Total Financing Required              14.56        25.71        40.27
-  - - ~~ .  ; E -    Loal;^ -    Florei9ie  -   ltal 
Project Cost By-Category                                            Toa USlUAll- - $  U- ssa;m i lion
Goods                                                       6.85         18.37        25.22
Services                                                    1.90          2.73         4.63
Training                                                    0.43          0.30         0.73
0.00          0.00         0.00
Incremental Recurrent Costs                                 3.02          1.07         4.09
Physical Contingencies                                      0.80          2.00         2.80
Price Contingencies                                         1.56          1.24         2.80
Total Project Costs     14.56         25.71         40.27
Front-end fee                                 0.00
Total Financing Required     14.56         25.71         40.27
Identifiable taxes and duties are 7.78 (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 32.49 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 72.45% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 33 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value pf Flows                     Fiscal Impact
-               l-sE p*r  $ilIancla IAnalysvsls
____  Analyis t                          Taxes         Subsidies
Benefits:                     7.16
in millions of 1998
Slovak Crowns
Costs:                        1.72
in millions of 1998
Slovak Crowns
Net Benefits:                 5.44
in millions of 1998
Slovak Crowns
IRR:                        11.8%
This analysis reflects the present value of increased contributions due to the project assuming only a 0.25
percent increase in compliance less the present value of the cost of the Loan. The actual benefits of the
Loan are expected to be far greater but a very small benefit has been assumed to demonstrate the
cost-effectiveness of the Loan with even very minimal positive results. Further, the calculation does not
include the impact of achieving a sustainable pension system through pension reform or the impact of
improvements in other social programs as a result of technical assistance and monitoring capacities
provided.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
*   improvement of pension and sickness contribution compliance by employers
*   accuracy of pension benefit awards improved by the institution of the central database
* time and cost savings for employers, SIA staff, and the banking system
*   other benefits including improved service to clients (difficult to evaluate and not included in analysis).
Main Assumptions:
1. Time horizon: 2030
2. The increase of collections to SIA will phase in over the years 2004-2006, up to the level of 0.25% of
total collections from employers
3. The impact on benefits will phase-in gradually, increasing along with the number of new pensions
awarded with the help of the system
4. The staff time devoted to an employer reporting/paying procedures in all three topics mentioned above
will be shortened by one hour per month
5. GDP growth was assumed to equal 3% throughout the period.
6. The unemployment rate was assumed to fall to 10% in 2015
- 34 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
I . The time horizon is essential for the benefit/cost ratio (which was 2.1 for the year 2020 and 4.2 for
2030).
2. If the improvement in collections, all other things remaining equal, reaches a reasonable 1%, the
present value of projected benefits will increase to 31.7 million crowns and the real IRR will increase
to 26.1%
3. The social contribution rate was assumed to be constant over the projected period and equal to that of
1998. A reduction in these rates (particularly the 28% pension contribution rate) may reduce the
impact of the project as the total value of contributions will decrease and better compliance of
employers may be expected. The reduction in the total contribution rate, however, is likely to increase
employment and reduce the size of the informial sector. Hence, the benefits from such reductions are
not easily calculated.
4. Changes in other assumptions such as GDP growth, the unemployment rate and the compliance rate
will cause only small changes in the real IRR of the project except in the case of a significant shock to
the economy
5. As the analysis was carried out in real, rather than nominal terms, the inflation rate is irrelevant to the
project benefits. However, inflation could influence the exchange rate which would have an impact of
cost-effectiveness as the majority of project costs will be incurred in US dollars
6. The time horizon is too short for the impact of changing demographic trends to be substantial.
- 35 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
Years Ending
2007
Year I  I Year 2  | Year 3     Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6   | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           3.7       15.1      12.0       4.3        0.3       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.3        0.3        1.3       1.5       1.5        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          4.0       15.4      13.3       5.8        1.8       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
,Total Financing             4.0       15.4       13.3       5.8       1.8        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  2.9       10.0        7.7       2.7       0.3       0.0        0.0
Government                1.1        5.4        5.6       3.1        1.5      0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     4.0       15.4       13.3       5.8       1.8       0.0       0.0
I Year 1     Year 2  j Year 3 4 Year 4      Year 5I Year 6       Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          3.7       15.1      12.0       4.3        0.3       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.3       0.3        1.3       1.5        1.5       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         4.0       15.4       13.3       5.8        1.8      0.0        0.0
Front-end fee    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing            4.0       15.4       13.3       5.8        1.8       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  2.9      10.0        7.7       2.7        0.3       0.0       0.0
Government                1.1       5.4        5.6       3.1        1.5       1.5       1.5
Central               0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    4.0       15.4       13.3       5.8        1.8       1.5       1.5
- 36 -



Main assumptions:
Operational costs as defined for this table include staffing, office and facilities-related operational
expenditures, operation and maintenance of office and computer equipment. This forecast represents a best
estimate of the incremental resources required during the project life.
- 37 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement under the Bank's loan will follow the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits, January 1995, Revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999, for
Goods and Works, and the Guidelines: Selection end Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997, and January 1999. For procurement under the Loan,
the Borrower would use: (i) the Bank's latest standard bidding documents for ICB procurement; and (ii)
the Bank's standard request for proposal for selection of consultants.
Implementation: A Capacity Assessment has been done for the Project, and the risk rating is high. The
country has little experience with the World Bank, and the executing agency (MOLSAF) and two other
participating agencies (SIA and NLO) have not implemented a World Bank-financed project before.
Institutional capacity in all three agencies is weak. As a result, it is recommended that a project
management expert be recruited to support the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) on an intensive basis
during the first year of the Project, and periodically thereafter. In addition, substantial support is built into
the project to implement the IT aspects of the project, which are complex and considerable. The support
specifically consists of the technical services, on a part-time basis over the project life, of: (a) a Senior
Information Technology Advisor to provide overall management of the IT parts of the project; (b) a
General Procurement Advisor to oversee day-to-day management of all procurement packages; and (c) two
specialized technical procurement experts who would provide support to all three agencies. The commercial
part of the ICB documents has been developed during preparation. However, specific bid documents have
not been developed because of the need for specialized technical assistance to develop the technical
specifications and special conditions of contract. A Project Preparation Advance was made available to the
Government but could not be used because of limitations of the local budget law. The Government is
receiving assistance from the U.S. Trade Development Agency on preparation of the two key ICB
documents to outsource the systems development and implementation for the SIA and for joint collections.
Advertisement: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the February 15, 2002 issue of
Development Business, announcing goods and consultant services to be procured and inviting interested
eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and to request any complementary
information from the PCU. The Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be published at later dates, as
the corresponding bidding documents become available.
Goods (US$29.3 million estimated value, including contingencies)
International Competitive Bidding (ICB)(US$28.1 million estimated value, including contingencies).
Computers and related information technology (IT) equipment and specialized services which are estimated
to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract or more will be procured in four packages following
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Computer
equipment (for tenders) procured through ICB will account for about 96 percent of the total goods tenders.
Included in the ICBs are two large turnkey supply and install contracts for the Social Insurance Agency to
outsource the business planning, engineering of business procedures, development of application software,
- 38 -



design and deployment of telecommunications infrastructure, and supply and installation of computer
equipment at an estimated cost of US$9.5 million and US$14.3 million, including contingencies. It is
conceivable that these two contracts may be consolidated as a single contract. The turnkey contracts
include design, implementation, testing and operational support for a country-wide network, and would be
used because they would provide a comprehensive approach to the set of required activities without
overloading the scarce technical human resources of the Borrower. In addition, there will be an ICB
contract with an estimated cost of US$ 1.08 million for a decision support system for MOLSAF; an ICB
contract, with an estimated cost of US$2.56 million for operational and information systems for the
National Labor Office; an ICB to procure laptops for auditors at the SIA, with an estimated cost of
US$0.24 million; and an ICB for hardware and license components for the MOLSAF Social Sector
Statistical System, with an estimated cost of US$0.4 million. Bidding documents to be used for the IT
equipment and specialized services are: (a) Supply and Installation of Information Systems, Single-Stage
Bidding, Trial Edition, February 1999, Revised August 2000 or successor document; and (b) SBD
Procurement of Information Technology Products, Trial Edition, or successor document. Regional
two-stage version of (a) above would be used when there is a requirement for two stage procurement. Both
(a) and (b) documents referred to above are still in trial phase, and will be used in the short-run. Over the
life of the project, the most up-to-date and appropriate documents available for IT procurement will be
used. In the comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB, local manufacturers, if any,
competing under ICB will receive a preference in accordance with Appendix 2 of the Banks Guidelines.
Approximately 95 percent of the investment in information technology will be procured competitively
through ICB. Most of this procurement will take place in the early phases of the project and will have to be
kept up to date over the life of the project. A three-year warranty policy will guarantee proper care of the
equipment and software in the begining. In addition and in line with regional experience, it is anticipated
that the initial investment will require upgrading because of technical depreciation and because of changes
in user requirements, e.g., creation of new Social Insurance or Employment offices. In the case of the large
turnkey contracts, change orders can be used to accommodate changes and upgrades as necessary. In other
cases, this would require the purchase of similar equipment as those procured through ICB, or parts for
upgrading, or new versions of software, and the like. The project team will ensure that the most
competitive process is used for these upgrades but actual decision would be very dependent on the specific
suppliers selected through the ICB procedure. Based on past experience, the team is reserving the
equivalent of 5% of the investment for upgrades and proprietary items. Of these, about 3% would be
procured using Intemational Shopping procedures, about 1.3% would be procured using National
Shopping or IAPSO procedures, and about 0.7% through Direct Contracting, (see details below).
Incremental recurrent costs under the Project will be borne by Govenmment. The incremental costs will
include: equipment operation and maintenance, telephone line costs, staff salaries, and office operating
expenses. The procurement method will be Non-Bank Financed (N.B.F.), and the Government will pay for
these expenses out of its own budget. The Government is also providing substantial investment
financing for the two turnkey ICB contracts estimated at 40% of the investment.
International Shopping (IS)(US$0.7 million estimated value, including contingencies). Procedures for
IS will be used for contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than US$100,000 (i.e., initial batches of
computer equipment, laptops, audio visual and office equipment, and upgrading and updates of equipment
and software selected through ICB procurement as described above, where the cost of ICB will clearly
outweigh possible price advantages. The aggregate value of IS is estimated at US$654,000 equivalent,
including contingencies, for three agencies over a period of five years. International shopping procedures
will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two
different countries, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
- 39 -



National Shopping (NS)(US$0.2 million estimated value, including contingencies). Minor sundry items,
small equipment, network and power cabling necessary to maintaining the adequacy of the investment in
Information Technology not exceeding US$50,000 per contract may be purchased on the basis of prudent
national shopping by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. The aggregate value of national shopping is estimated at US$228,600 equivalent,
including contingencies.
Direct Contracting (DC)(US$0.2 million estimated value, including contingencies). Direct contracting
will be used for the procurement of upgrades or additional proprietary items for reasons of compatibility
and standardization, for purchase of updates and upgrades for software and hardware procured
competitively under the project, and in any other justified case, such as technical literature and
subscriptions and spare parts. Any direct contracting during project implementation will require prior
Bank approval. The aggregate value of direct contracting is estimated at US$227,000 equivalent, including
contingencies.
Procurement from United Nations Agencies (US$0.2 million estimated value, including contingencies).
Whenever feasible, and particularly for minor sundries and small purchases of equipment, procurement
would be carried out through the Inter Agency Procurement Services Office of the United Nations
Development Programme (IAPSO) in lieu of Direct Contracting and Shopping procedures. Because the
specific equipment and software upgrading options can only be determined as a result of ICB awards made
during project execution, the actual amounts would have to be deteriined during project execution.
Estimated total value for IAPSO is US$162,000, including contingencies.
Selection Procedures for Consulting Services (US$6.0 million estimated value, including
contingencies)
About 41 percent of the consultants required by the Project shall be engaged using Quality and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), and the other 59 percent shall be engaged by other methods because of the
project requirement for highly specialized individual skills not commonly available from the consulting
companies. Total consulting services and related training shall account for a value of US$6.1 million, or
17 percent of project procurement. For consulting contract shortlists, expressions of interest will be
obtained by advertisement in Development Business, and specific notices will be issued in Development
Business for all consulting assignments exceeding US$200,000. In addition, advertisement will be made in
the national press. Individual consultants shall be selected in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3
of the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
Contracts for Consulting Services and training have been packaged to combine related skills and
services, in order to make them attractive and increase competition as well as to reduce the number of
contracts to be managed by the PCU. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS)(US$2.1 million estimated value, including contingencies).
QCBS procedures will be used for contracting consultant services and training related to information
system development, management information systems, pension and social assistance policy, analysis and
planning. There will be a total of six QCBS contracts, varying between a minimum of US$150,000 and a
maximum of US$879,000. Average value of contract is US$315,000. Estimated aggregate value is
US$2.1 million, including contingencies.
Quality-based Selection (QBS)(US$.9 million estimated value, including contingencies). A large
-40 -



contract, using QBS procedures, and estimated at $900,000 including contingencies, would be used for the
SIA to obtain technical assistance, training, and a highly specialized software to establish an efficient
auditing and enforcement capacity, which is crucial to increase compliance in the country. To the best of
our knowledge, the viable sources of services are very limited and directly associated with the revenue
collection agencies of developed countries but, nevertheless, the SIA will openly invite expressions of
interest to try to identify other potential sources of consultancy. There is a possibility that this activity may
entail bilateral negotiations with government agencies of other countries requiring special handling.
Least-cost Selection (LCS)(US$83,000 estimated value, including contingencies). LCS procedure will
be used for contracting consultant services for audits, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 83,000, including
contingencies, in accordance with Section III of the Consultant Guidelines and the provisions of paragraphs
3.1 and 3.6.
Individual Consultants (IC)(US$1.9 million estimated value, including contingencies). IC procedures
will be used for contracting consulting services related to project management (including Senior Project
Policy Advisor, Senior Project Information Technology Advisor, Policy Development Coordinator, and
Project Procurement Advisors); and pension reform design, supplementary pensions, pension legislation,
actuarial development, debt management, capital market issues, and training of trainers. Individual
consultants will be hired in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines. Consultants will be selected based
on individual's qualification and with the Bank's prior approval. There will be a total of thirteen contracts,
varying between a minimum of US$49,000 and a maximum of US$458,000. Average value of contract is
US$141,000. Aggregate value for IC is US$1.91 million, including contingencies. The relatively large
number of IC contracts is justified, in accordance with paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, because
of the highly specialized nature of the studies and services being rendered across the three agencies
(MOLSAF, SIA and NLO) and the Joint Collection Center. As far as knowledge of the industry is
concemed, in the pension field, the project would be better served through use of individual consultants
rather than firms, as there are very few specialists worldwide who have the requisite skills to provide
effective support.
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification (CQ)(US$304,000 estimated value, including
contingencies). CQ procedures will be used primarily for contracting consulting services related to project
financial management, compliance issues study, a program for planning and training of field auditors at the
SIA, and Information Technology Master Plan for National Labor Office. There will be a total of four
contracts, varying between a minimum of US$50,000 and a maximum of US$87,000. The average
contract value is US$72,000. Services for technical assistance may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultants Guidelines, up to an
aggregate amount of US$304,000, including contingencies.
Other (US$730,000 estimated value, including contingencies). Annual training plan and budget will be
prepared by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank for review and comments. Training courses and study
tours are planned in the following areas: pension reform training of government officials, employers and
employees in a series of large conferences throughout the country in eleven regions; extemal study tours for
government officials in pension reform; and PCU and PMU staff training, up to an aggregate amount of
US$730,000, including contingencies. For the purposes of the training to be carried out under the Project
(excluding the training of trainers, to which the IC method applies), the MOLSAF, SIA and NLO shall: (i)
furnish to the Bank for its approval, the content of each such training, consistent with project objectives,
and offering the best price/quality ratio, and implementation schedule; (ii) select trainees according to a
transparent process and criteria satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) by December 1 of each year, exchange views
with the Bank on the training to be carried out during the following calendar year; and (iv) furnish to the
- 41 -



Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each training
and the benefits derived.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
=. . , ..   :  . - Procurement- Mthod 
Expenditure Cafegory             ICB            NCB          Other'        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            28.06            0.00          1.27         0.00       29.33
(17.43)          (0.00)        (1.11)       (0.00)     (18.54)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          6.04         0.00        6.04
(0.00)          (0.00)        (5.00)       (0.00)      (5.00)
4. Incremental Recurrent            0.00            0.00           0.00         4.90        4.90
Costs
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00            0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                            28.06            0.00          7.31         4.90        40.27
(17.43)          (0.00)        (6.11)       (0.00)      (23.54)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Includes goods to be procured through international shopping (aggregate US$654,000), national shopping
(aggregate US$228,600), direct contracting (aggregate US$227,000), procurement from UN Agencies
(IAPSO) (aggregate US$162,000), consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, technical assistance services.
- 42 -



Procurement Packaging Plan
Table Al
Description        Type            Proc.        Proposed       Estimated      PQISL               BD/RFP          BidlCP              Conorott
Method        Number of      Total Cost     Llovite               Prep          Univite              Compiedo
Packages       (USSOO)       2.Opea                              2.openbig           n
3.Ev'ol                             3. eval&
reromm ror
award
4. signing
Goods
Pension            G            [APSO             3             S27                           Jue 2002                               Aug. 2W2
Refom
Design
Office EQ
(MOLSAF,
2.                   HR               G            IAPSO            1             S29                            June2001                              Aug. 2002
Infonnation
System
(MOLSAF)
3.                Decision            G             ICB             I            SIOSI                           July 2002         1. SspL 2002        Jan.. 2004
Support                                                                                                         2. Nov. 2002
System                                                                                                          3. Dc. 2002
I stage S&l                                                                                                      4. Jan 2003
for IS
(MOLSAF)-
4.              Hardware and     G              ICB             1                 S400                          July 2002          1. SepL 2002        Dec2003
Lireme                                                                                                            2. Nov. 2002
Components                                                                                                        3. Dec. 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                          4. Jan 2003
5.                Actuarial          G            IAPSO           Severa          SIg                            June 2002                             July 2002
Pomcasting                                        TBD
Office Eq.
6.                MOLSAF             G               s            Svera           $229         Over a five
upgrades,                         NS             TED            S68          year period
updates,                          DC                            $67
small
Procurement
for new
offices, etc.
7.                Auditing            13           ice              I             S240                           July 2003         I.Sept. 2003        May 2005
Investigation                                                                                                     2. Nov. 2003
& Arrears                                                                                                        3. Dec. 2003
Mgt.                                                                                                           4. Jan. 2004
Laptop
computers
roe auditom
B.               Collecton         G1TS            ICB              I            S9485                           July 2002         1. Sept. 2002       Jane 2007
System:                       w/prequalif.                                                                      2. Dec. 2002
Oussoring                                                                                                         3. Feb. 2003
2-stage S&l                                                                                                       4. Mr. 2003
for is
(SIA)
9.               Insurance         G1/1             ICB             t            014303                          July 2002         1. Sept 2002        Jane 2007
Agency                        w/prrqualif                                                                       2. Dec. 2002
System                                                                                                          3. Feb.2003
Development                                                                                                        4. Mar. 2003
(SIA)...
2-stage S&l
rrP
10.               SIA PMU            G              IS           Several          S94         Omea five
EQ                       ITED                                             year period
I.              PMU Oftice          G            IAPSO          Several          S88         Over a five
SuppOcs                                         TBD                         year peniod
(SIA,NLO,
MOLSA)- 43 -



12.             Operational        G             ICB             I           S2555                         July 2002        1. Sept- 2002       Feb. 2004
and Info                                                                                                   2. Nov. 2002
Systems                                                                                                    3. Jan 2003
I stage S&l                                                                                                 4. Feb. 2003
for IS
(NLO)
13.                NLO             G              IS          Seeral          $331        Over a five
Upgeudes,                        NS            TBD           $160        year peod
updates,                        DC                           S160
small
procurement
for new
offices. etc
TOTAL          $29.3
GOODS          MILLION
Con antanI
Servies and
Training
Policy           TA             IC             I            S458        I. June 2002     July 2002         1. July 2002       Aprl 2005
Deoclopoent                                                                2. July 2002                       2. Aug. 2002
Coordinator                                                               3. July 2002                       3. Sept. 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                     4. Sept 2002
Foreisgn TA
2.           Actuarial         TA             IC             I            S195        I June 2002      July 2002         I . July 2002      April 2005
Forecating                                                                2. July 2002                       2. Aug. 2002
and                                                                    3. July 2002                       3. Sept. 2002
Modelling                                                                                                   4. Sept. 2002
(MOLSAF)
Foreign TA
3.           Actuarial        TA             IC              I            $87        I. June 2002     July 2002         t. Aug. 2002       Feb. 2005
Forecsmtng                                                               2. July 2002                       2. Sept. 2002
ad Modelling                                                               3. July 2002                       3. OcL 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                    4. Oct. 2002
Local TA
4.           Design of         TA             IC             I            $50         1. June 2002     July 2002         1. Aug. 2002       Dec. 2004
Pension                                                                  2. July 2002                      2. Sept. 2002
Reform                                                                  3. Juy 2002                        3. Oct 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                     4. Oct 2002
Reglulatory
Fraineunok
Foieign TA
5.          Design of         TA             IC              I            $50        I. June 2002      July 2002         I. Aug. 2002       Dec 2004
Pension                                                                  2. July 2002                       2. Sept. 2002
Reform                                                                  3. July 2002                        3. Oct. 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                     4. Oct. 2002
Debt
Management
Foreign TA
6.          Design of         TA              IC             I            $49         1. June 2002     July 2002         1. Aug. 2002       Dec. 2006
Pension                                                                  2. July 2002                       2. Sept 2002
Refomm                                                                   3. July 2002                       3. Oct 2002
(MLpOLSAF)                                                                                                   4. Oct 2002
Capita
Market
Issues
Foreign TA
7.          Design of         TA              IC             I            S49         I. June 2002     July 2002         1. Aug 2002        Dec. 2006
Pension                                                                  2. July 2002                       2, Sept 2002
Reform                                                                  3. July 2002                        3. Oct 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                     4. Oct 2002
Pension
Benefits
Foreign TA
8.          Design of         TA             IC              3            554         I. June 2002     July 2002         I. Aug. 2002       Dec. 2006
Pension                                                                  2. July 2002                       2. Sept 2002
-44 -



Reform                                                                    3. July 2002                       3. Oct. 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                       4. Oct 2002
3 local
consultants
to provide
services
periodically
over a four
year period.
9.           Desigit of        TR            Other            4             S39        TBD: over first                                         Dec. 2006
Pension                                                                   two years
Reform
(MOLSAF)
4 eWtsan
study tours
for officials
10.         Supplesensa       TAIIX            IC              I            $151        1. June 2002     July 2002          1. Au.& 2002       June 2004
ry Pensions                                                                2. July 2002                        2. Sept 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                   3. July 2002                        3. Ocl 2002
I foreign                                                                                                     4. Oct 2002
consultant to
provide
services on a
periodic basis
over the fiust
two years of
the ptoject
I.         Supplementa         TR           Other            2             $54         TBD: overufist
ry Pensions                                                                two years
(MOLSAF)
extenal
traing for
so. officials
12.         Supplement          TR            Othe            12            S208        TBD: over ffrst
ry Pensons                                                                 two years
(MOLSAP)
II regional
nsnferences
for
employers
13.           Pension          TA              IC             1             $76         1 June 2002       July 2002         1 Aug. 2002        Dec. 2005
Reforn                                                                    2. July 2002                        2. Sept.2002
Legislation/                                                                3. July 2002                       3. Oct 2002
operstio                                                                                                       4.Oct 2002
(MOLSAF)
I foreign
consultant to
provide
services on a
periodic basis
over the first
3 yrs.
14.           Pension          TA              IC             1             S104         . June 2002      Jul 2002          1. Aug. 2002       Dec.2005
Refonm                                                                    2. July 2002                        2. Sept.2002
Le&latioot/                                                                3. July 2002                        3. Oct 2002
operation                                                                                                      4.Oct 2002
(MOLSA])
I calw con
to provide
services n a
priodic basis
over the fast
3 yrs.
15.           Pension          TR            Other        .   4              77         TBD: over first
Reforn                                                                    two years
Legislation/
operations
(MOLSAF)
study tour
16.           Pension          TR            Other            11            S1S2        T1D over first
Reform                                                                   two years
Leilationl
operations
(MOLSAF)
11 regsoal
- 45 -



conferences
for
employees
17.          Disability        TA           QCBS             1            $153        1. Nov.2002      Dc. 2002          I Jan. 2003        Dec.2005
Programs                                                                 2. Dec. 2002                       2. Feb. 2003
(MOLSAF)                                                                  3. Jon. 2003                      3. Mar. 2003
4. April 2003
18.           Public         TA/IR          QCBS             I            S210        1. Nov. 2002     Dec. 2002         1. Jan 2003        Dec. 2005
Informantio                                                               2. Dec. 2002                       2. Feb. 2003
Surveys                                                                 3. Jan 2003                        3. Mar. 2003
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                     4. Aril 2003
19.           Media            TA           QCBS             I            $879        I June 2002      July 2002         1. Aug. 2002       Juen 2006
Campaigns                                                                 2. July 2002                       2. Sept. 2002
(3)                                                                   3. Aug. 2002                       3. Oct 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                     4. Nv. 2002
20.             HR            TArTR         QCBS             I            $150        1. Dec. 2002     Jan. 2003         I. March 2003      Sep. 2004
Development                                                               2. Ja. 2003                        2. April 2003
Admin                                                                   3. Feb.2003                        3. May 2003
Reform                                                                                                     4. Jane 2003
(MOLSAF)
21.           IT and           TA           QCBS             I            $491       1. June 2002         July 2002      1. Aug. 2002       Dec. 2003
Organization                                                              2. July 2002                       2. Sept 2002
Analysis                                                                3. Aug. 2002                       3. Oct 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                    4. Nov. 2002
Foreign TA
22.         Design Social      TR            Other            I            $73        I. June 2002     July 2002         1. Aug. 2002       Jan. 2004
Sector                                                                 2. July 2002                        2. Sept. 2002
Statistical                                                              3. Aug. 2002                       3. Oct. 2002
System                                                                                                     4. Nov. 2002
(MOLSAF)
23.          Production        TA           QCBS              I           S230        1. Nov. 2002      Dec. 2002        1. Feb. 2003        Dec. 2004
Database/IT                                                               2. Jan 2003                        2. March 2003
Production                                                               3. Feb.2003                         3. Aprtl 2003
(MOLSAF)                                                                                                     4. May 2003
24.            Sr. IT          TA             IC             I            S198        1. Jne 2002      July 2002         1. Aug. 2002       Dec. 2005
Advisor                                                                 2. July 2002                       2. Sept 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                  3. Aug. 2002                       3. Oct 2002
4. Nov. 2002
2$.         Procuremenmt       TA             IC             2            $390        I. Jure 2002     July 2002         I. July 2002        Dec. 2006
Adviors                                                                  2. July 2002                       2. Aug. 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                  3. July 2002                       3. Sept 2002
Treo                                                                                                      4. Oct.. 2002
procurement
advisors to
provide
support to
PCU over
coarse of the
project.
26.          Financial       TAtTR            CQ             I             $50        1. Jane 2002     July 2002         1. July 2002       Nov. 2003
MgL                                                                    2. July 2002                       2. Aug 2002
(MOLSAF)                                                                  3. July 2002                       3. Sept 2002
4. Oct.. 2002
27.            Audit           TA             LC                            $83        I.Ot.2002      Nov.2002          1. Dec. 2002        Dec. 2007
(MOLSAF)                                                                   2.Nov.2002                        2. Ja.. 2003
Selection of                                                                3.Dec.2002                       3. Feb. 2003
independent                                                                                                  4. Mar. 2003
auditor for
the pmoect.
28.         Compliance         TA             CQ             2             107        1. Jane2002       July 2002         1. Aug. 2002       Dec. 2003
Issum                                                                   2. July 2002                       2. Sept 2002
Studim                                                                  3. July 2002                       3. Oct 2002
(SIA)                                                                                                      4. Nov. 2002
29.        Auditing            TA            QBS             I            $899          I.Oct2003         Nov.2003          I Jan=2004      Mar. 2006
Juvt*tigation                                                                2.Nov.2003                          2.Ftb.2004
& Arrears:                                                                   3.Dec.2003                          3.Mor.2004
Planning and                                                                                                     4.Apn12004
- 46 -



(SIA)
30.        IT Moter        TA          CQ                       $67       IJU 2002      July 2002      I . Aug. 2002   Aug. 2003
Plan                                                        2. July 2002                  2. Sept. 2002
(NLO)                                                        3. July 2002                  3. Oct 2002
for the NLO                                                                                  4. No-. 2002
Information
System (ref
Goods trIO5
above)l 
31.        PCU;PMIU        TR         Other       Sererol       $97      Oct. 2002                                      Dec. 2006
StaffTrammug
(MOLSAF_
SIA, NLO)
TOTAL TA     S6.0
AND          MIlLION
TRAINING
*Acrnym defi,tion: MOLSAF(Mirstey of Labur, Social Affuis und Fumily); SIA (Social Insumace Agency); NLO (Naional Labor Of(ice); PCU (Project Coordination Umt); PMU (Project
Management Umt), PPF (Project Preparotion Facility); TA (Technical Assistance); IT (Infomatin Technology).
*-S&I is defined as: Supply and Inswrlatutun of Infum-atron Systems, Single Stage Balding, Trial Edition, February 1999, Re-ised August 2000.
*--ITP is defined us: SBD Peucurement of InfonmaoionTechnology Products, Trial Edition.
*-''c.lndesNetworkDesign, Business Plan, System-Design(Tub2O2,BI-3)andlnfo. System Design (Tab 2031).
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
~~ -  ~ ~~.               Selecoon, Method                                    ..
Consultant Services .l                                                      ;      =
Expenditure Category             QCBS         QS            SFB         LCS l         CQ          Other       N.e.F      ialCost
A. Firms                            2.11         0.90         0.00        0.08          0.30         0.73         0.00          4.12
(1.63)       (0.70)       (0.00)      (0.06)        (0.20)       (0.50)       (0.00)        (3.09)
B. Individuals                      0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         1.91         0.00          1.91
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.91)       (0.00)        (1.91)
Total      2.11         0.90         0.00         0.08          0.30        2.64         0.00           6.03
(1.63)       (0.70)       (0.00)       (0.06)       (0.20)       (2.41)       (0.00)         (5.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS       Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS      Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
In compliance with Bank procedures, standard bidding documents will be used for all procurement financed
by the Bank. With respect to prior review, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 of
the Guidelines shall apply. It is estimated that this prior review will cover about 78 percent of the value of
all contracts combined for equipment and technical assistance financed by the Bank. The remaining 22
percent of contracts will be subject to selective post award reviews. Progress of procurement activities will
be monitored by the PCU, and periodic reports on procurement progress, including variations in schedule,
will be reported to the Bank on a regular basis.
(a) Goods: Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation, recommendation of award
and contract will be conducted for: (i) all ICB contracts; (ii) the first two IS contracts; (iii) the first two NS
contracts; and (iii) all DC contracts.
(b) Consulting Services: Termns of reference for all consulting assignments will be subject to prior Bank
review. Short lists and draft contracts will be prior reviewed by the Bank for contracts for technical
assistance for individual consultants above US$50,000 and firmns above US$100,000.
The PCU would keep a complete and up-to-date record of all procurement documentation and relevant
correspondence in its files. All other procurement documents and procedures would be subject to the
Bank's ex-post review during supervision missions. In such cases, the PCU would provide for review of all
the relevant documentation (invitation to bid/request for proposals, conditions of contract, etc.).
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                      >= 100,000                 ICB                    six (28.1)
<100,000           Intemational Shopping         two (.2)
<50,000             National Shopping            two (. 1)
All                Direct Contract       To be determined (.2)
3. Services                   >=100,000                 QCBS                    six (2.18)
<100,000                   QBS                    one (.90)
<100,000                   CQ                    three (.29)
<50,000                 Least-Cost               one (.08)
Individual Consultant       thirteen (1.97)
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  34.02 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
- 48 -



Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
tSection 1: Procurement Review
Goods and Civil    ICB                   Is            NS           IAPSO         Direci    Perc;rlage
Works                                                             contracting   contracting   of loan
amount
subject to
prior review
Procurement       2USD              <USD 100.000   < USD 50.000                                 96
thresholds:      100.000
individual and
aggregate        USD 28.1            USD 654,000   USD 228,600   USD 162,000      USD
million                                                        227,000
Prior Review       All                 First two     First two                     All
packages      packages
Consultants       QCBS      QBS         LCS            CQ         Individuals
Procurement       2 USD    _>USD       < USD      <USD 100.000
method            100.000  100,000     100.000
thresholds
Prior Review       All       All    TOR short-list,  TOR short-list,  TOR short-list
contract      contract      contract
Expost Review   Ex-post review will be done during supervision mission of those documents that are not prior-reviewed.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency In Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
The PCU has Deen esiabi-rnec in the MInistry of Labor, Social Affairs ara Fam,ly, and will include in His stall Irte pr.Murereri;
officers (a Procurement Advisor (PA) and two specialized Technical Procurement Experts). This is in addition to: (a) a Project
Management Advisor to support day-to-day management of the PCU and the two PMUs in SIA and NLO respectively; and (b) a
Senior Information Technology Advisor whose function is to oversee the management of the IT aspects of the project. The
procurement staff have considerable experience in public procurement and implementation of international investment and TA
programs, but limited experience in WB procurement. For this reason, technical assistance in the form of the Project
Management Advisor and Sr. Information Technology Advisor (see above) will be provided to give overall support in project
management, implementation and procurement. The Procurement Advisor (PA) will be assigned to assist the PCU in
implementing procurement activities for the project. The PA should have experience in World Bank procurement procedures and
practices and should have pmficiency in English language. The PA, working together with the staff, will provide on-the-job
training for the PCU on an intensive basis during the first year of the Project. This training will continue throughout the life of the
project on a declining basis. The nominated procurement persons in the PCU will be sent to procurement courses in Turin,
organized by ILO, for detailed training in procurement. A project procurement launch workshop will be held immediately after
loan effectiveness to familiarize the PCU staff with Bank procurement requirements. During this launch, the Bank's procurement
guidelines and standard and sample procurement documents will be reviewed with and supplied to the PCU.
The final Country Procurement Assessment Report has been issued after Are the bidding documents for the procurement
further consultation with Government.                           actions of the first year ready by negotiations
.._..~~~~~~~~~ Yes D                    No xO
-49 -



Section 3: Tralnii Irdoniiatlon-and Develop1u,ent on Procurement
Est,maled dale of     Estimaled date of     Indicate if ihere is     Domeslic Prelerence  Domeslic PrefeiencI, for
Project Launch        publication of General  procurement subject to  for Goods          Works, if applicable
Workshop              Procurement Notice     mandatory SPN in                             NIA
May 15, 2002          November 15, 2001      Development Business    Yes
Yes
Retroactbe financing                                                                     Advance procurement
Not applicable                                                                           Consultants for PCU
are belng selected
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Project documentation which requires prior review would be cleared by a
PAS and relevant technical staff. The PCU will maintain complete procurement files which will be subject to post review.
Procurement and IT/procurement specialists will be hired by the PCU. Procurement information will be collected and recorded
by the PCU and submitted to the Bank as part of quarterly progress reports. This information will include: (a) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts; (b) revised timing of procurement actons, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion dates for individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: N/A
- - -.     Setlosil4:4 ProcurmrentStaffing -
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Slovakia,
Social Benefit Reform Administration project Name: Eszter Kovacs Ext: 5428-9540
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: The Field Office for the Slovak Republic is Budapest,
Hungary. Eszter Kovacs, the PAS for this project, is located in the Budapest office, and will supervise procurement aspects of
the project.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Summary of Findings and Actions
Assessment                              Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                            Satis-        Major                                 Actions       Proposed
factory   Weaknesses                               Proposed
Null Poor Fair                                  Low    Ave.    High                   Completion
Date
(a) Legal Aspects                   X                The new PPL is          X              Amendment of the 2002
based on EU                             Law will be
directives, which are                   necessary
more suitable to
economically better
developed countries.
(i) Laws & Regulations                    X                          X
(ii) NCB Procedures                X                 Evaluation process      X              See above       2002
is unclear.
(iii) Intemal codes and      X                       There is no formal             X        Code of ethics  2002.
manuals                                              code of ethics.                        should be
introduced by PPO
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.              X                 PCU bas no              X              On the job training 2001
practical experience                    for the PCU by a
in Bank                                 procurement
procurement, but                        specialist
experienced in                          experienced in
intemational and                        Bank procurement
public procurement,                     and training
courses
(i) General handling                X                                   _    X          _
- 50 -



(ii)       Procurement          X                                                          X
planning
(iii)      Preparation of              X                                           X
documents
(iv)       Management o    _    X                        There are no                      X        Preparation of  2001
process                                                  guidelines at country                      Guidelines by
level for                                  Public
procurement                                Procurement
Office
(v) Bid evaluation                     X                                           X
(vi) Contract award                    X                                           X
(vii)       Preparation                X                                           X
and signing of contracts
(viii) Contract management             X                                           X
(c)   Organization and                 X                                           X
Functions
(i)       Organization of                     XX                                               -
unit and functions
(ii) Internal manuals and      X                         There are intemal                 X        Preparation of  .2001
instructions                                             manuals at                                 internal manuals
ministries levels but                      by Public
not at country level                       Procurement
I                 Office.
(d) Support and Control
Systems
(i) Auditing                                  X                            X
(ii) Legal assistance                  X                                           X
(iii)      Technical and               X                                           X
administrative controls    _      _      _
(iv) Code of ethics            X                         No code of ethics                 X        Preparation of  2002
Code of Ethics by
_______                                               PPO
(v)        Anticorruption              X                                           X
initiatives                                                                                 _
(e) Record keeping                     X                                           X
(i) Public notices                            X                            X
(ii) Bidding documents                 X                 There are no              X                Update of bidding
obligatory standard                        documents
bidding documents                          prepared the
assistance of the
Bank and PPO
should make it's
l_____________________     _______________                           use  obligatory
(iii) Bid opening            X                                                              X
information
(iv) Bid evaluation reports            X                                           x
(v) Formal appeals and                X                                            X
outcomes
(vi) Signed contract                   X                                           X
documents
(vii) Claims and dispute              X                                            X
resolution records
(viii) Comprehensive                  X                                            X
disbursement data
(I) Staffing                                  X                            X
(g) General Procurement                X                 There is no formal   -                     Introduction of a  2002
Environment                                              code of ethics for                         code of ethics by
government                                 PPO to improve
I__ __ _    employee         I          _I    I        laccountability  I
(i)       Promoting a                  X                                           X
culture of accountability  _                                                                     _
- 51 -



(ii)       Reputation 0                 X                                             X
procurement corps
(iii) Salary structure                  X                  According to the           X
grade of the civil
servants
(iv) Freedom from political             X                                             X
interference
(v)        Existence of                 X                                             X
experienced and capable
staff
(vi) Clear written standards     X                         There is no standard X                       Update and      2001
and delegation of authority                                bidding documents                           introduce bidding
and clear delegation                        documents
of authority                                prepared with the
assistance of the
Bank and
establishment of
permanent
procurement
commnittees in the
_ _________                                        _    Ministries.
(vii) Sound budget/financial     X                                            X
systems
(h) Private Sector                      X                                             X
Assessment
(i) General efficiency and            X                                               X
predictability
(ii)       Transparency     =    X        =x
(iii) Quality of contract               X                                             X
mgmt.                           I_                           _     _       __                                      _
(iv) General reputation                        X =X                                      -     
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                                                   OveraU Risk Assessment
Goods US$ > 100,000 (equivalent) and DC all, and the first two packages for IS and NS.                               High X
Works US$ _       (equivalent)                                                                                    Averag
Consulting US$ 100,000 for firms and USD 50,000for individuals (equivalent)                                          Lo
Post Review Ratio: One in every S contracts
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months. The    Form prepared by:
supervision mission should include procurement specialist especially during the first two years
of work. The procurement specialist will not only conduct ex-post reviews but will also continue Eszter Kovacs(Procurement Specialist/Accredited staff assigned
providing guidance and support to the procurement persons in the PCU.              to the project)
Signature :signed: E. Kovacs
Date:April, 2001
Comments:
Due to the lack of WB procurement experience in the PCU, it is recommended that a procurement advisor is hired to provide on the job training for the PCl,
during the life of the project on a declining base. In addition, the procurement staff of the PCU should receive extemal training in Turin, organized by ILO and the
Bank. The four weeks courses are available two times yearly its cost is about USD 10.000. Training should be financed by the Loan.
- 52 -



Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 53 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in USMmillion         Financing Percentage
Goods
a. Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs        1.35          100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
and Family                                               local expenditures (ex-factory); and 85%
of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
b. Social Insurance Administration         13.11                         60%
c. National Labor Office                    2.23          100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory); and 85%/o
of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultant Services and Training                                         80%
a. Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs        3.65
and Family
b. National Labor Office                    0.05
c. Social Insurance Administration          0.80
Unallocated                                 2.35
Total Project Costs                        23.54
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                      23.54
Note: Front-end fee will be paid by Government out of its own funds.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C):
The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five years. Since this is the first
Bank-financed project in the sector in the Slovak Republic, the disbursement profile of the Project has been
based on experience gained during current Bank operations within the sector in the Region. The Project
has been designed within the capacity of the MOLSAF to execute over a five year period, and Loan funds
are expected to be fully disbursed within five years of Loan Signing.
Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs), as follows: (a) services contracts for (i) individuals costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each;
(ii) firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; and (iii) training for less than $20,000 equivalent
each, and (b) goods costing more than US$100,000. Disbursements against goods and services exceeding
the above limits will be made against full documentation and respective procurement guidelines. SOEs will
be prepared by the PCU. Related documentation in support of SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but
will be retained by the PCU for at least one year, after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year
- 54 -



in which the last disbursement is made. This document will be made available for review by the auditors
and supervision missions. If ineligible expenditures, including those not justified by evidence furnished, are
financed from the Special Account (SA), the Bank will have the right to withhold further deposits in the
SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Recipient has: (a) refunded the amount involved, or (b) (if
the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that can be used to offset the ineligible
amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the PCU with the assistance of the MOF will establish,
maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in EURO, in the
National Bank of Slovakia. An initial authorized Special Account allocation of US$ 1.0 million will be
established. An authorized allocation of the Special Account will be EUJR 1,250,000, once the aggregate
disbursements of the Loan total EUR 5,000,000 or more. The minimum amount of each application should
be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted by the PCU at least
every four months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents. Payments for the MOLSAF will be made directly from the SA. The NLO and the SIA will
open US$ accounts in a commercial bank. When payments are required to be made on behalf of the NLO
or the SIA, based on documentation prepared by the PCU, funds will be transferred from the SA to these
two accounts at the commercial bank.
Project Accounting
The PCU will establish a project financial management system acceptable to the Bank, which will keep
project accounts for all three entities. The TOR for this assignment has been agreed with the Bank. As the
FM system will not be in place prior to Board (due to lack of funding, as the Borrower is unable to request
a PPF due to local legislation and no budget funds are available for this CY), the Bank has agreed with the
Borrower to establish an interim FM system at the PCU. All payments under the project will be made
through the existing treasury payment system using existing budget accounting classification numbers. The
financial management system, once established will extract project related financial information from the
treasury system and present it in PMR formats acceptable to the Bank. The interim system will be capable
of providing accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures, including
planning, accounting and financial reporting relating to the project. (However, it will not be able to extract
information from the treasury system and will also not be able to produce reports as required by the local
authorities. This will be resolved once the main system is in place, after project funds are available)
The PCU is expected to have adequate financial management capacity to properly handle the tasks of: (i)
disbursement and accounting required for implementation of the project components; and (ii) proper
monitoring mechanism to report accurately on the status of the expenditure for the project as a whole, its
various components and each expenditure category as represented in the Loan Agreement, by each funding
source. Project records and accounting policies will be established and maintained in accordance with
Intemational Accounting Standards (IAS) as issued by the Intemational Accounting Standard Committee
(IASD). An action plan for the establishment of the Financial Management System has been agreed with
the Borrower.
Operational procedures and guidelines for project financial management will be documented in an
Operational Manual, encompassing all levels of project management and administration. A draft will
prepared by the PCU by the project Board Date, planned for February 14, 2002. The Bank will review the
manual and give its comments. The Manual will include financial management procedures and staffing,
- 55 -



identification of accounting and auditing standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting
and monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures for cash management and the format of project
management reports.
Project Audit and Other Reporting
Project Audits
Project accounts, financial statements, the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures will be audited
in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditingfor Projects Financed by the
World Bank (March 1982) as well as the Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(January 1995). In particular, International Auditing Standards (IAS) as published by the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC) will be consistently applied. The PCU will provide the Bank (within six
months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
-request, including an opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on disbursements against
certified SOEs, or against PMRs. The opinion should mention whether the SOEs/PMRs submitted during
the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications. The TOR for the audit of the project accounts
have been agreed with the Bank.
Project Reporting
The PCU will ensure that proper project reports are prepared and submitted to the Bank in a timely
fashion. These include comprehensive quarterly reports covering project financing, implementation
progress (including variance reporting), procurement progress and contract expenditure. The reporting
system will be in compliance with the formats provided by the Bank in the Project Financial Management
Manual (Exposure Draft, February 1999). These include: (i) Financial Report - including sources and
uses of funds, uses of funds by project activity, project cash withdrawals (Disbursement), special account
statement, and cash forecast; (ii) Project Progress Report - including output monitoring - contract
management and unit of output by project activity; and (iii) Procurement Management Reports.
Financial Management Action Plan
*      By November 1, 2001, the interim financial management system will be operational
*      By December 31, 2001, the PCU will prepare draft financial management and procurement
manuals for Bank review
*      By March 30, 2002, the PCU will issue a tender for the procurement of the FM system;
*      By March 30, 2002, the PCU will issue a tender for the selection of an audit firm acceptable to the
Bank;
*      By May 15, 2002, the PCU will have selected a firm to establish the FM system;
By June 30, 2002, the FM system will be operational;
*      By mid-July 2002, a Bank FMS will review the system for accreditation;
*      The PCU will prepare Reports IA, B, D and E by the end of the third quarter (September 30),
2002;
*      Full PMRs will be produced by the last quarter of 2002 (December 31, 2002).
- 56 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                 -    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       17                            54
First Bank mission (identification)              07/03/1997                   07/03/1997
Appraisal mission departure                      07/15/1998                    07/15/1998
Negotiations                                     09/15/1998                    11/27/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/15/1998                    06/15/2002
Prepared by:
Emily Andrews, Virginia Jackson, Carlos Ferreira, Eszter Kovacs, Hiran Herat, and Ian Conachy.
Preparation assistance:
Wayne Vroman (Social Protection Analyst), Patrick Wiese (Actuarial Specialist), Zoltan Vajda (Actuarial
Assistant), Leszek Krawczyk (Modeling Specialist). Dusan Ecimovic (Information Technology Specialist),
and Personnel, Ltd. (arrangements and administrative support).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Emily S. Andrews                   Project Team Leader
Virginia H. Jackson                Senior Operations Officer
Carlos Ferreira                    Principal Information Technology Specialist
Eszter Kovacs                      Procurement Officer
Hiran Herat                        Senior Financial Analyst/FMS
Ian Conachy                        Projects Assistant (primary)
Maria Gracheva                     Operations Officer (substitute)
Ron Venezia                        Procurement Specialist (initial)
Richard James                      Financial Management Specialist (initial)
Joseph Peters                      SeniorHuman Resources Officer
Andras Peter                       Team Assistant (Budapest)
Rohit Mehta                        Senior Disbursement Officer
Denis Robitaille                   Senior Procurement Specialist
Joseph Formoso                     Senior Disbursement Officer (initial)
Els Hinderdael                     Senior Procurement Specialist
- 57 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
A Project Implementation Plan is being prepared as part of the Project Operational Manual (POM) by the
Borrower. It has been agreed that the POM will be submitted for Bank review prior to the Board Date of
February 14, 2002. The POM contains, for each component: detailed objectives, activities, implementation
procedures, performance and outcome indicators, implementation schedules, performance and output
indicators, terms of reference for all technical assistance, detailed budgets, and procurement arrangements.
The POM also contains the action plan for procurement, financial management, and reporting.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mission Back to Office Reports, Aide Memoires, and Consultant Reports from Preparation through
Negotiations. Procurement and financial assessments were carried out during the appraisal period by FMS
and PAS staff, and are on file. E-mail correspondence among staff and consultants.
C. Other
*Including electronic files
-58 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amiount in US$ Millions                          disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA                        Cancel.    Undisb.     Orig   Frm Revd
Total:       0.00       0.00                          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
- 59 -



SLOVAK REPUBLIC
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998/00            SEF Scame Tatra                1.28    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
1999                SEF West Exp-lmp              1.78    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.78   0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         3.06    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.78   0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               Ruzomberok                       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000               Ruzomberok BLINC                 0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 60 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SLOVAK REPUBLIC: Social Benefits Reform Administration Project
Europe &    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  Slovak    Central   middle-
Republic      Asia    income      Development diamond
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                         5.4      475       573                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   3,590      2.150     4.900
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       19.4     1,022     2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                          0.2       0.1       1.4
Labor force (%)                                         0.9       0.6       2.1     GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita              7        enrollment
Povertv (% of population below national povertv fine)
Urban population (% of total population)                57        67        76
Life expectancy at birth (Vears)                        73        69        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 9        22        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                         8         7                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)        ..        ..       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     ,,        3        10
Gross Drimarv enrollment (% of school-age population)  102        100      109               SlovakRepublic
Male                                                 102       101                         Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               102        99
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998     1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..      17.8      20.4      18.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                          31.8      39.4      33.8                        d
Exports of goods and services/GOP                     28.8       63.7      64.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savinns/GDP                            28.5       28.2      28.7
Gross national savings/GDP                                       29.3      28.0
Current account balance/GDP                     ,,              -10.4      -5.7                      7
Interest payments/GDP                                   0.6       2.6       2.3     Domestic                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                         10.3      58.5      55:6     Savings
Total debt service/exPorts                                       13.9      13.6
Present value of debt/GDP                      ,,        ,,      44.9
Present value of debt/exPorts                                    68.0                            I     e
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.7      0.9      4,4        1.9       3.9               Slovak Republic
GNP per capita                       2.2      0.6      4.1        1.0                   - - - Upper-middle-income group
Exports of aoods and services                11.3     10.8        7.0       9.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999     Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          60
Agriculture                                    ,,       9.4       4.4
Industrv                                              58.5       31.6               40 
Manufacturing                                          ,       23.2               20
Services                                              32.2       64.0         ._
Private consumption                                   49.9       50.6      51.1    .20           95    9-
General government consumPtion                        21.6       21.2      20.2              -  GDI        - 2GDP
Imports of goods and services                         32.1       74.8      69.9
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                            -1.6      -1.0              30 -
Industry                                              -6.6       -0.3              20 -
Manufacturing
Services                                               7.6        7.5               10 -s
Private consumption                                    -1.1       5.0       0.5     o       LX
General government consumption                 ,,       1.3       3.5       0.3                   s    96   97    9
Gross domestic investment                              2.4        3.4     -13.7    -10
Imports of qoods and services                          8.3        9.6      -2.5                  Exports     t  Imports
Gross national product                        2.7      0.8        4.2       1.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missinqg the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 61 -



Slovak Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998     1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                       30
Consumer prices                                ..      ..       6.7      10.6    20
Impliit GDP deflator                          ..      2.8       5.1       6.6
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                               ..        .      42.4      43.1            94    95    96    97    9B    9
Current budget balance                        ..       ..        1.6      3.4           -     GDP deflator  *   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -5.0      -3.6
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1979     1989      1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mnill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..       ,,    10,667    10,197     5,000
n.a.
n.a.                                         ..
Manufactures                                                 8,535    8,130
Total imports (cif)                           ..       ..    12,959    11,300
Food                                         ..       ..      686       597     so000
Fuel and enerV                                ..      ..     1,419    1,301
Capital goods                                ..       ..
93   94   99   96  97   98   9
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..         .                           Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995= 100)                     ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1979     1989      1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                 13,015   12,191      6
Imports of goods and services                  ..      ..    15,348    13,145
Resource balance                              ..       ..    -2,333     -954
Net income                                                     -157     -302       o-           95
Net current transfers                         ..       ..       367      173
Current account balance                       ..       ..    -2,124    -1,083     -6
Financing items (net)                                         1,641     1,550
Changes in net reserves                                         483      467     l12 -
Menmo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        ..       ..     2,923     3,283
Conversion rate (DEC, locaaUSS)               ..     15.1      35.2      41.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                    ComposItlon of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..   1,827     11,903   10,473
IBRD                                        ..        0       239      226                       A: 239
IDA                                          ..       0         0        0                             C: 189
Total debt service                            ..      505     1,867     1,693
IBRD                                        ..        0        31       34        G: 4,605
IDA                                          ..       0         0        0
Composiion of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                             ..       ..        52         .                         -   .
Official creditors                          ..      -13                                                        F: 6,870
Private creditors                           ..      -28         ..       ..
Foreign direct investment                   ..       ..       562      701
Portfolio equity                            ..       ..         0      624
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ,.        0         0        0      A- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                         0        15        3      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..        0        17       20      C - IMF                    G - Shot-termn
Net fows                                     ..       0        -2      -17
Interest payments                           ..        0        14       14
Net transfers                               ..        0       -16      -31
Development Economics                                                                                              9112/00
- 62 -



IBRD 27947R
BELARUS  (
CERMANY  i    'OLAND  f.
K.  CZECH  ',
' to. w r25LOVi  '       -                             x                                          POLAND
ASI /---"  < *  U-  ,'  't  '  ts      CZECH
9  -            V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
IIALE  --                                                                    (|             .wT                    ao  
_, S  i, _ ,>                S         X       C                                  9                    4               8         t                 _   E4 A.
\,   12;S  ,,,,   ,X, R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N \' '  ,              f      "i ;^,,  'I
AUSTRIA Tr,w 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
_ v < | g > HUNGARY               0   TOWNS
-      - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
AUTOBAHN
-     HIGHWAYS
MAIN ROADS
S..                                                                                         ------- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DOUJBLE TRACK RAILROADS
-L4-4SINGLE TRACK RAILROADS
)ITOETFS                            -  -l lREGION BOUNDARIES
KILO ETFRS
1    15   30   45   60   1                     _   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
rh,~~~~~~~  p~~~~,P~~~~~33TS.                                  I       I       I                   cz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p-  RIVERS~~~~~~~~IV R
0       20C,             60
MILES
JUNE 1997



