Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7098-SK
Loan Agreement
(Social Benefits Reform Administration Project)
between
Slovak Republic
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 29, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7098-SK
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 29, 2002, between SLOVAK REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts B and C.2 of the Project will be carried out by the Social Insurance Agency 
(SIA) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make part 
of the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to 
SIA, as set forth in this Agreement;
(C)
Part C.3 of the Project will be carried out by the National Labor Office (NLO) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make part of the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to NLO, as 
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the 
agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and SIA (the SIA Project Agreement) and 
between the Bank and NLO (the NLO Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“BRIBOR” means the Bratislava interbank offered rate in Slovak crown, 
expressed as a percentage per annum, that appears on the relevant telerate page as of 11:00 a.m. 
of the day specified in each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“MOLSAF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family 
or any successor thereto;
(e)
“NLO Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and NLO of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the NLO Project Agreement;
Page  3
(f)
“NLO Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and NLO pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the NLO Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g)
“NLO Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under the NLO Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement;
(h)
“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be adopted 
by the Steering Committee and setting forth rules and procedures related to Project 
implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(i)
“PCU “ means the Project Coordination Unit established within MOLSAF;
(j)
“PMU-NLO” means the Project Management Unit established within NLO;
(k)
“PMU-SIA“ means the Project Management Unit established within SIA; 
(l)
“Project Agreements” means, collectively, the SIA Project Agreement and the 
NLO Project Agreement;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
“SIA Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and SIA of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the SIA Project Agreement;
(o)
“SIA Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SIA pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the SIA Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(p)
“SIA Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under the SIA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(q)
“Slovak crown” means the Borrower’s currency;
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(s)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, SIA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and NLO Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(t)
“Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The Loan
Section 2.01.
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-six million two hundred 
thousand Euro (EUR26,200,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and any premium in respect of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 
4.04(c) of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.
On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall pay to the 
Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to two hundred sixty two thousand Euro
 
(EUR 262,000).  
Section 2.05.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:           (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06.
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07.
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount 
of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
Page  5
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with 
Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for such 
purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out, through MOLSAF, Parts A and C.1 of the Project with 
due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, 
technical and financial practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources 
required for such Parts A and C.1 of the 
Project; and
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this 
Agreement, shall cause SIA and NLO to perform in 
accordance with the 
provisions of SIA Project Agreement and NLO 
Project Agreement respectively 
all the obligations of SIA and NLO 
therein set forth, and shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SIA and NLO to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
For the purposes of Parts B and C.2 of the Project the Borrower shall relend part 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to categories (1)(b) and (2)(b) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to SIA under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SIA, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include the following principal terms: (i) 
the principal amount of the SIA Subsidiary Loan shall be made available and shall be repaid in 
Slovak crowns in amounts equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates of 
repayment, according to Schedule 3 to this Agreement) to the amounts withdrawn from the Loan 
Account or paid out of the Special Account on account of goods and services for Parts B and C.2 
Page  6
of the Project, and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the principal amount of the SIA 
Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of no more than fifteen (15) years, including a 
grace period of no more than five (5) years; and (iii) SIA shall pay interest and other charges on 
the principal amount of the SIA Subsidiary Loan at the rate equal to the six month BRIBOR rate. 
(c)
For the purposes of Part C.3 of the Project the Borrower shall relend part of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to categories (1)(c) and (2)(c) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to NLO under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NLO, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include the following principal terms: (i) 
the principal amount of the NLO Subsidiary Loan shall be made available and shall be repaid in 
Slovak crowns in amounts equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates of 
repayment, according to Schedule 3 to this Agreement) to the amounts withdrawn from the Loan 
Account or paid out of the Special Account on account of goods and services for Part C.3 of the 
Project, and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the principal amount of the NLO 
Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of no more than fifteen (15) years, including a 
grace period of no more than five (5) years; and (iii) NLO shall pay interest and other charges on 
the principal amount of the NLO Subsidiary Loan at a rate equal to the six month BRIBOR rate.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.
For the purposes of the training to be carried out under Parts A and C.1 
of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for its approval, the content of each such training, including 
an explanation on how such training is consistent and conducive to the objectives of the Project 
and whether it offers the best price/quality ratio, as well as the schedule for its implementation;
(b)
select the trainees in accordance with a transparent process and criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank on the 
training to be carried out during the following calendar year; and
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the results of each training and the benefits to be derived therefrom.
Section 3.04.
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
Page  7
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
Section 3.05.
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts B and C.2 of the Project shall be carried out by SIA 
pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the SIA Project Agreement and in respect of Part C.3 of the 
Project shall be carried out by NLO pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the NLO Project Agreement.
Section 3.06.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about October 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 31, 2005, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
Section 3.07.
The Borrower shall maintain, in a manner and under terms of reference 
satisfactory the Bank, the Steering Committee composed by the Minister of Labor, Social Affairs 
and Family (as its Chair), the Minister of Finance, the Director General of SIA, the Director 
General of NLO and the Director of PCU. The Steering Committee shall be responsible for 
reviewing the progress of Project implementation and resolving any general issues related to 
inter-agency coordination within the framework of the Project.
Section 3.08.
The Borrower shall maintain, in a manner and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, a joint working group of the MOLSAF, the SIA, and the NLO to address 
the administrative aspects of joint collection of social contributions for pension, sickness, 
accident and unemployment insurance, and to the wage guarantee fund against bankruptcy.
Section 3.09.
The Borrower, through MOLSAF, shall maintain the PCU with staff, 
resources, facilities and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.10.
The Borrower shall ensure that PCU, PMU-SIA and PMU-NLO in the 
course of the Project implementation adhere to the Operational Manual and that no modifications 
are introduced into said Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior approval.
Page  8
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable 
to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) 
of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, 
and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
may from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  9
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each 
of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
SIA or NLO shall have failed to perform any of their obligations under the SIA 
Project Agreement or NLO Project Agreement respectively. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that SIA or NLO will 
be able to perform their obligations under the SIA Project Agreement or NLO Project Agreement 
respectively.
Section 5.02.
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
Page  10
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
Page  11
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and SIA and on behalf of the Borrower and NLO. 
Section 6.02.
The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by SIA and 
NLO respectively and are legally binding upon SIA and NLO in accordance with their terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and SIA and by the Borrower and NLO respectively and are legally binding upon 
the Borrower, SIA and NLO in accordance with their terms. 
Section 6.03.
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ul. Stefanovicova 5
810 05 Bratislava
P.O. Box 82
Slovak Republic
Telex:
Facsimile:
121868
(421-2) 5249-8065
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  12
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
By  /s/  Martin Butora
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Suman Mehra
Authorized Representative
Page  13
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
% of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Euro
)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods:
(a) under Parts A1,500,000100% of foreign expen-
     and C.1 of the Project
ditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(b) under Parts B
14,590,000
60%
      and C.2 of the Project
(c) under Part C.3
2,480,000
100% of foreign expen-
      of the Project
ditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2)
Consultants’
80%
services and training:
(a) under Parts A 
               and C.1 of the Project
4,100,000
          (b) under Parts B and
900,000
                C.2 of the Project
(c) under Part C.3
60,000
      of the Project
(3)
Premia for Interest
0
Amount due under
Rate Caps
Section 2.09 (c) of this
and Interest Rate Collars
Agreement
Page  14
(4)
Unallocated
2,570,000
TOTAL
26,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or works supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or works supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “training” means Project related costs and expenses related to study 
tours, seminars, workshops and other training activities which may be carried out through a 
consultant services contract, or with the agreement of the Bank, by other means.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of any Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule: (a) prior to the date 
of this Agreement; and (b) unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each, excluding those referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of   Part D of Section I 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) services and training, under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; and (c) training, under contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent each, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account in the National 
Bank of Slovakia, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
Page  15
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
Page  16
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to EUR2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
EUR1,250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of EUR5,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
Page  17
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of EUR2,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in establishing a modern, 
cost-effective and efficient social protection system by: (i) designing a multi-pillar pension 
reform; (ii) improving collection and administration of social contributions; and (iii) 
strengthening the institutional capacity of MOLSAF, SIA and NLO.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
Provision of technical assistance and equipment for strengthening the institutional 
capacity of MOLSAF to develop: (i) a multi-pillar pension reform design, including 
complementary pensions; (ii) public information campaigns to support pension reform; (iii) 
operational policies; (iv) human resource management; and (v) Project audit, monitoring and 
management.
Part B:
Joint Social Contributions Collection System
Assistance to SIA for the establishment and management of a joint social contributions 
collection, client services, and audit and enforcement capacities, through provision of technical 
assistance and equipment.
Page  18
Part C:
Client Database and Information Systems for Social Sector Programs
Provision of technical assistance and equipment for:
1.
Development of the database within MOLSAF to support the Borrower’s operations for 
social assistance, social welfare and occupational safety programs.
2.
Development and implementation of the automation systems and infrastructure for the 
delivery of services by SIA.
3.
Development of database and application environment needed by NLO to operate under 
the new joint social contributions collection system.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2006, through March 15, 2016                5%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
Page  19
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  20
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for turnkey contracts shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for turnkey contracts shall be carried out in two stages in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $654,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $228,600 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature, and costing $227,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Small office equipment and supplies may be procured from the Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services Office of the United Nations Development Programme in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D
:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  21
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Section I, Part B, above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Section I, Part C.3, above; (ii) the first two contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions referred to in Section I, Part C.1, above; and (iii) the first two 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions referred to in Section I, Part C.2, above, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
Page  22
of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for technical assistance for software development under Part B of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  23
2.
Least-cost Selection
Auditing services relating to the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for financial management, information technology and compliance issues study 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Training of trainees and services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of    Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
Page  24
(c)
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) and 2 (b) above 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
