Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7098-SK
Project Agreement
(Social Benefits Reform Administration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIAL INSURANCE AGENCY
Dated May 29, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7098-SK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 29, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
Page  2
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SOCIAL INSURANCE  
AGENCY (SIA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Slovak Republic 
(the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount 
equal to twenty-six million two hundred thousand Euro (EUR26,200,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SIA agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SIA 
(the Subsidiary Loan Agreement), part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to SIA on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SIA, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts B and C.2 of the Project
Section 2.01.
SIA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth 
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B and C.2 of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
technical and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for said Parts B and C.2 of the Project.
Section 2.02.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03.
(a) SIA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts B and C.2 of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  SIA shall:
Page  3
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and SIA, a 
plan for the future operation of Parts B and C.2 of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with SIA on 
said plan.
Section 2.04.
SIA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SIA shall not take or concur in any action 
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05.
(a) SIA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank 
with regard to progress of Parts B and C.2 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SIA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts B and C.2 of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of Loan, or the performance by SIA of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06.
SIA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of 
Parts B and C.2 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about October 31, 2004 a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of Parts B and C.2 of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of Parts B and C.2 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 31, 2005, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts B and C.2 of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.07. 
Throughout the implementation of Parts B and C.2 of the Project, SIA 
shall maintain the PMU-SIA with staff, resources, facilities and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 2.08.
Throughout the implementation of Parts B and C.2 of the Project, SIA 
shall ensure that the PMU-SIA adheres to the Operational Manual and that no modifications are 
Page  4
introduced into said Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior approval.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SIA
Section 3.01.
SIA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, technical and financial practices, in accordance with Operational 
Manual, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02.
SIA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and technical 
practices.
Section 3.03.
SIA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall 
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a) SIA shall maintain a financial management system, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to 
reflect in its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Parts B and C.2 of the Project.
(b)
SIA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of said 
financial statements 
reflecting the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and 
financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.
SIA shall take all action required and provide all adequate information to 
Page  5
the Borrower so as to allow it to prepare and submit to the Bank Project Management Reports 
and comply with the provisions of Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.
This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SIA thereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its 
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SIA thereof.
Section 5.03.
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01.
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be 
in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex, facsimile or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified 
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 Facsimile
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
 (202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For SIA:
Social Insurance Agency
Ul. 29. Augusta 10
Page  6
813 63 Bratislava
Slovak Republic
Section 6.02.
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SIA may be taken or executed by 
the Director General or such other person or persons as the Director General shall designate in 
writing, and SIA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03.
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/  Suman Mehra
Authorized Representative
SOCIAL INSURANCE AGENCY
By  /s/  Martin Butora
Authorized Representative
