                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000810




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IBRD-70980)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 26.2 MILLION
                       (US$ 23.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                                SLOVAK REPUBLIC

                                       FOR A

           SOCIAL BENEFITS REFORM ADMINISTRATION PROJECT


                                 September 29, 2008




Human Development Sector Unit
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective September 29, 2008)

                                Currency Unit = SKK
                                   1.00 = US$ 20.65
                                  US$ 1.00 = 0.048

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1-December 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS: Country Assistance Strategy
CPS: Country Partnership Strategy
ICR: Implementation Completion Report
ISR: Implementation Status Report
LA: Loan Agreement
MOF: Ministry of Finance
MOLSAF: Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family
NLO: National Labor Office
PAD: Project Appraisal Document
PCU: Project Coordination Unit
PDO: Project Development Objective
PMU: Project Management Unit
PROST: Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit
SBRAP: Social Benefits Administration Reform Project
SIA: Social Insurance agency
SL: Supplemental Letter




                            Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                           Sector Manager: Kathy A. Lindert
                       Project Team Leader: Zoran Anusic
                         ICR Team Leader: Ufuk Guven

                                    SLOVAK REPUBLIC
                   Social Benefits Reform Administration Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 25
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 29
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 30
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 31
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 46
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 47
 MAP

                                    D A T A S H E E T
A. Basic Information

                                                                     Social Benefits Reform
Country:                Slovak Republic        Project Name:
                                                                     Administration Project
Project ID:             P038090                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-70980
ICR Date:               08/18/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:             SLOVAK REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 23.5M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 6.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family (MOLSAF), Social Insurance Agency (SIA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/11/1998     Effectiveness:        11/22/2002       11/22/2002
Appraisal:             12/04/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/21/2002     Mid-term Review:      05/15/2005       05/12/2005
                                      Closing:              12/31/2007       12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:           Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing          Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators           (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          Yes                                     None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             34                46
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                 66                54


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Law reform                                                  Secondary        Secondary
Social risk mitigation                                       Primary         Primary
Tax policy and administration                                Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos           Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:           Kathy A. Lindert                Michal J. Rutkowski
Project Team Leader:      Zoran Anusic                    Emily S. Andrews
ICR Team Leader:          Ufuk Guven
ICR Primary Author:       Ufuk Guven

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from the Loan Agreement)

The objective of the project as indicated in the Loan Agreement (LA) was to assist the
Borrower in establishing a modern, cost-effective and efficient social protection system
by: (i) designing a multi-pillar pension reform; (ii) improving collection and
administration of social contributions; and (iii) strengthening the institutional capacity of
Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family (MOLSAF), Social Insurance Agency (SIA)
and the National Labor Office (NLO).1

Annex 1 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) has the following five objectives: (i)
improve quality of pension reform design; (ii) increase compliance for social
contributions; (iii) improve effectiveness of administration of social contributions; (iv)
improve image of social insurance institutions; and (v) improve quality of employment
and social programs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

The PAD and the Supplemental Letter (SL) had the following seven outcome indicators
(listed below as Indicators 1-7). The project team did not use these seven outcome
indicators and produced five different outcome indicators (listed below as Indicators 8-12)
presented in the Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) to monitor project performance.
Some of the indicators produced by the project team are similar (with different wording) to
the PAD indicators, as explained in the comments below each indicator.

                                             Original Target          Formally        Actual Value

  Indicator           Baseline Value           Values (from                           Achieved at
                                                 approval         Revised Target     Completion or
                                                documents)              Values       Target Years
The following present indicators (1-7) set out in the PAD and SL.
Indicator 1:    Pension reform prepared and implementation supported

                                              Pension reform                       First pillar pension

     Value            Pension Reform            preparation                        reform introduced

(quantitative or   Preparation does not       completed and               .          in 2003; second

  qualitative)            exist.           multi-pillar pension                    pillar introduced in

                                            system introduced.                      2004; third pillar
                                                                                  introduced in 2005.


1National Labor Office (NLO) was abolished and functions transferred to MOLSAF after effectiveness.
See Section 1.7.

Date Achieved            1/1/2003                12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
                ACHIEVED: However, a major policy change introduced by the current

Comments        Government in 2007 made the second pillar optional starting January 2008 for new

(incl. %        entrants and current participants were given a six month window (until end June

achievement)    2008) to opt out (or in) of the second pillar which is inconsistent with the original
                design of pension reform, although. The amendment does not change the multi-
                pillar nature of the pension system.
Indicator 2:    Compliance improved as measured by revenues/(average wage*employment)
     Value
(quantitative or           77%               No specific target          .                87%
  qualitative)                                 set in the PAD

Date Achieved            1/1/2003                                                      12/31/2007
                ACHIEVEMENT UNCLEAR: This indicator is similar to Indicator 10 (produced
                by the project team - see below), which monitored the collection rate instead of
                compliance rate. The methodology to measure the compliance rate as suggested in
                the PAD compares the actual contribution revenues to potential revenues if all the
                employed persons in Slovakia were registered by the SIA and were paying
Comments        contributions. The above values are calculated by the ICR team based on the data
(incl. %        collected from the MOLSAF as part of the ICR preparation, and represent rough
achievement)    calculations. These values ­ which could perhaps be refined in an in-depth analysis
                ­ provide an indication of the trend in the development of the compliance rate
                during the time of the project. The calculation suggests that the compliance rate
                improved by 13% (or 10 percentage points) from 2003 to 2007. Since no specific
                target was set in the PAD, it is not possible to make a concrete assessment on this
                indicator.
Indicator 3:    Predictability improved as measured by budgeted/actual revenues.
     Value
quantitative or            98%               No specific target          .                110%
  Qualitative)                                 set in the PAD

Date Achieved            1/1/2003                                                      12/31/2007
                NOT ACHIEVED: This indicator was not monitored by the project team. The
                above values present calculations of the ICR team based on data provided by the

Comments        MOLSAF. A value equal to 100% indicates that the actual revenues are equal to the

(incl. %        budgeted (predicted) revenues and hence perfect predictability. While the estimated

achievement)    revenues were 2 percentage points lower than actual revenues in 2003, the budgeted
                revenues were 10 percentage points higher than the actual revenues in 2007. The
                values indicate that the capacity of the SIA to predict revenues actually deteriorated
                during the time of the project. .
Indicator 4:    Effectiveness of administration improved as measured by stock of arrears/revenues
     Value
(quantitative or           62%               No specific target                           34%
  qualitative)                                 set in the PAD

Date Achieved            1/1/2003                                                     12/31/2007
                ACHIEVEMENT UNCLEAR: This indicator was not monitored by the project

Comments        team. The above values present calculations of the ICR team based on data

(incl. %        provided by the MOLSAF. The values present a reduction in the stock of arrears as

achievement)    a share of the actual revenues and hence indicate improvement in the effectiveness
                of SIA in the collection of revenues. Since no specific target was set in the PAD, it
                is not possible to make a concrete assessment on this indicator

Indicator 5:    Efficiency of administration improved comparing Slovak costs/revenues to EU
                average costs/revenues.
     Value
(quantitative or           2.8%             No specific target          .               2.8%
  qualitative)                                set in the PAD

Date Achieved            1/1/2003                                                   12/31/2007
                ACHIEVEMENT UNCLEAR:: This indicator was not monitored by the project
                team. The above values present administrative costs as % of the revenues of SIA
Comments        calculated by the ICR team based on data provided by the MOLSAF. The ratio of
(incl. %        administrative cost to revenues remained stable at 2.8% during the project period.
achievement)    In relation to the EU average, the ICR team was not able to access a structured
                database and hence comparison of Slovak administrative costs with the EU average
                was not possible.

Indicator 6:    Client services improved measured by increases in number of inquiries received
                and answered
     Value
(quantitative or    No baseline       No target available
  qualitative)        available

Date Achieved         1/1/2003                                                      12/31/2007
                ACHIEVEMENT UNCLEAR: This indicator was not monitored by the project
Comments        team. Based on the information provided to the ICR team by the MOLSAF, the
(incl. %        number of inquiries generally have an increasing trend. The inquiries that were
achievement)    actually answered as share of total inquiries received was not clear from the data
                provided.
Indicator 7:    Benefits Reform Prepared
     Value
(quantitative or    No baseline       No target available
  qualitative)        available

Date Achieved         1/1/2003                                                      12/31/2007
                ACHIEVEMENT UNCLEAR: This indicator was not monitored by the project
                team. Slovakia introduced reforms in the social assistance system to improve
Comments        efficiency and transparency. One of the important reforms included separating non-
(incl. %        contributory and contributory benefits, shifting the redistributive aspects of the
achievement)    pension system to the social assistance system. The indicator as defined here is
                very broad and was difficult for the ICR team to interpret ­ and hence an
                evaluation was not possible.
The following indicators were presented in the ISR on 06/05/2005 and monitored by the project
team.
Indicator 8 :   Pension system becomes more fiscally sustainable
                                                                                   Unclear with

     Value                                                                        recent proposed
                 Implicit pension debt at    Implicit pension
 quantitative or                             debt reduced by            .         pension system

  Qualitative)        304% of GDP                  30%                           changes; implicit
                                                                                 pension debt may
                                                                                 be deteriorating.
 Date achieved           1/1/2003               12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments        ACHIEVEMENT UNCLEAR: The implicit pension debt that represents the
(incl. %        present value of the future unfunded liabilities of the Government from the pension
achievement)    system was projected at 304% of GDP before the reform was introduced. The

               implicit pension debt ­as presented in the ISRs- was projected to go down by 34%
               when the post-reform rules of the pension system were taken into consideration.
               The reduction in the implicit pension debt was higher than the target value of 30%
               and therefore the indicator was achieved during the course of the project. However,
               if recalculated, taking into consideration the recent changes in the pension system,
               the implicit pension debt will likely increase and therefore maintaining the
               achieved implicit pension debt level is at risk.
Indicator 9:   Pension system becomes diversified by addition of second pillar
     Value                                  First, second and                     First, second and
quantitative or  No multi-pillar design     third pillars put in        .         third pillars were
  Qualitative)                                     place                             put in place
Date Achieved          01/1/2003               12/31/2007                            12/31/2007
Comments       ACHIEVED: As mentioned under indicator 1 above, the sustainability of this
(incl. %       objective may be in jeopardy with the Government decision in 2007 to allow
achievement)   workers to opt-out from the second pillar.
Indicator 10 : Compliance rate for social contributions increases
                                                                                  Collection rates at
                                                                                  95% according to

     Value                                                                          the SIA. The

quantitative or Collection rates at 90%    Collection rates rise        .           development

  Qualitative)                                    to 94%                          objective is being
                                                                                  met although the
                                                                                    project did not
                                                                                   contribute to it.
Date Achieved           1/1/2003               12/31/2007                            12/31/2007
               ACHIEVED: Compliance and collection rates are similar indicators that measure
               effectiveness of the system in the collection of social contributions. While
               compliance rate measures the ability of SIA to register and collect contributions
               from the employed persons in Slovakia, collection rate measures the ability to

Comments       collect contributions that are already declared. It is reasonable to expect both rates

(incl. %       to improve mainly due to the installment of new IT infrastructure that was to be

achievement)   supported by the project. The IT procurements were never realized during the
               course of the project. However, SIA established individual accounts using its own
               resources. This is probably one of the factors that contributed to the improvement
               in the collection rate. Another factor that might have contributed to the
               improvement was the improved incentives pay contributions as a result of
               strengthened link between contributions and benefits following the reforms.
Indicator 11 : Opinion polls rank pension reform highly

     Value                                  Image of pension                        In June 2005,

quantitative or    37% of public rated      reform improves                        58.7% of public

  Qualitative)   pension reform highly      (no specific target                     rated pension
                                                   set)                             reform highly.
 Date achieved         06/15/2004              12/31/2007                            12/31/2007
               ACHIEVED: Based on the information from the ISR of June 2005, 58.7% of

Comments       public rated pension reform highly and pension reform was rated as the best of the

(incl. %       reforms enacted by the Government. The public information campaign undertaken

achievement)   as part of the project that helped explain the reform to the Slovak population is
               cited as one of the main reasons for this high rating.          Since that time, no
               information surveys were taken to assess the public's current view of the reform.

Indicator 12 : Improved access to job search capacity
                                             Public has more
     Value      Individual are required to ready access to job
quantitative or visit local offices to meet  search facilities                      Not monitored.
  Qualitative)       with a counselor           through the
                                           employment kiosks.
Date Achieved           1/1/2003                12/31/2007                            12/31/2007
                NOT ACHIEVED: This indicator was created by the project team, but was never
                monitored. As part of the project, the local labor offices located throughout the
                country were to be interlinked electronically. Also, on a pilot basis MOLSAF
                offices were to be equipped with self-service information workstations ­ kiosks
Comments        with the computers and printers directly connected to the kiosks. As revealed
(incl. %        during the interviews with the Center for Social and Family Affairs (COLSAF) at
achievement)    the MOLSAF, the local offices are not interlinked and the central office
                consolidates the data/information from the local offices. Services on job search
                capacity have improved during the project period, but not at the high level intended
                by the project ­ the job searchers still do not have access to a database where they
                can reach information regarding job opportunities around the country.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

The PAD and the Supplemental Letter (SL) had the following five output indicators (listed below
in 1-5). The output indicators were not associated with the components, either in the PAD or in
the ISRs. The project team monitored two (1&5) of these output indicators. The categorization
below presents the interpretation of the ICR team.

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised         Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values     Target Years
                Component 1:
                As set out in the PAD and SL: Pension Reform Analysis Completed; information
Indicator 1:    software and WAN in place.
                As set out in the ISR: Preparation and passage of legislation for new pension
                reform
                                                                                New first, second
                                                                                  and third pillar
                                                                                    legislation
     Value                                     Multi-pillar                       prepared, and
  (quantitative Pension reform legislation   pension reform                       implemented.
 or qualitative)      does not exist        legislation passed                    However, the
                                                                                proposed changes
                                                                                  in 2007 would
                                                                               weaken the reform
Date Achieved            1/1/2003              12/31/2007                          12/31/2007

Comments        PARTIALLY ACHIEVED: The first part of the indicator as set out in the PAD

(incl. %        and SL is similar to the indicator monitored by the project team in the ISRs. The

achievement)    achievement by the project went beyond completion of the pension reform
                analysis. Based on the analysis of the pension reform, legislation for both the

                first, second and third pillars was prepared and implemented. The technical
                assistance provided by the project team had significant contributions to Slovak
                pension reform that established a multi-pillar structure. The recent changes
                weakened the reform although they do not change the multi-pillar nature of the
                pension system.

                The second part of this indicator as set out in the PAD and SL is vague and hard
                to associate strictly with any one component of the project. The abbreviation
                "WAN" was not included in the list of abbreviations in the PAD. The ICR team
                interprets "WAN" to be abbreviation for Wide Area Network, a computer
                network that is used to connect local area networks and other types of networks
                to allow users and computers in one location to communicate with users and
                computers in other locations. The ICR team interprets the second part of this
                indicator to be associated with the second and (partly) third components of the
                project. The project team did not monitor the second part of this indicator related
                to the IT related components of the project that were eventually cancelled. The
                IT system required for functioning of the second pillar (individual accounts) was
                put in place by SIA through its own resources.
                Component 3:
Indicator 2 : As set out in the PAD and SL: Client database established


     Value                                                                       Client database

  (quantitative  Client database does not    Client database                   established by SIA

 or qualitative)           exist.              established.                       without using
                                                                                  project funds.
Date Achieved            1/1/2003              12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments        ACHIEVED: The third component of the project related to establishment of
(incl. %        individual accounts through IT support to SIA was cancelled. However, SIA
achievement)    managed to establish the individual records using its own resources.

Indicator 3:    Component 3:
                As set out in the PAD, SL: Individual Contribution Records Maintained

     Value                                     Individual                       Individual records
  (quantitative Individual Records do not       Records                        maintained by SIA
 or qualitative)           exist             established and
                                              maintained.                        and functioning

      Date               1/1/2003              12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
                ACHIEVED: As set out in the PAD, the two indicators (in smaller font: "client
                accounting maintained" and "funds accounting maintained") that follow this
                indicator are interpreted to be the sub-indicators of this indicator. As mentioned
Comments        above, SIA managed to establish the individual records using its own resources.
(incl. %        The system seems to be functioning well, with no major complaints from the
achievement)    users. Interviews with the Bank project team indicate that the SIA did not agree
                for a technical audit on the individual accounts. Hence, the ICR team is not able
                to provide an assessment on the level of accuracy the individual records based on
                an independent audit report.
                Component 3:
Indicator 4:    As set out in the PAD, SL: Management information available and used by
                managers
     Value         Managers don't have         Management                         Databases for

  (quantitative   access to useful data/       information                       pensions, social
 or qualitative  information in required    available and used                    assistance, and
                 formats to make policy        by managers                         employment
                        decisions.                                              services exist but
                                                                               not linked and thus
                                                                                not providing the
                                                                                managers timely
                                                                                 and meaningful
                                                                               information to take
                                                                                    decisions.
Date Achieved            1/1/2003               12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
                NOT ACHIEVED: As set out in the PAD, the indicator (in smaller font:
                "evaluation and monitoring data used to improve program efficiency and inform
                policy change") that follows is interpreted to be the sub-indicator of this
Comments        indicator. Based on the interviews with SIA and MOLSAF officials, database
(incl. %        infrastructure for pensions, social assistance and employment services exist and
achievement)    SIA has the ability to do cross checks between pensions, social assistance and
                unemployment programs. However, database for individual programs are not
                electronically linked and there is limited flexibility to produce useful and timely
                information that would provide a basis for management decisions.

                Component 2:

Indicator 5 :   As set out in the PAD, SL: Unified contribution collection system established and
                sustained
                As set out in the ISRs: Unified contribution collection system put in place.
                                                                                  Collection of
                   All social insurance                                          unemployment,

     Value       contributions collected         80% of                            pension and

  (quantitative separately with employers     contributions             .           disability

 or qualitative)preparing a form for each       collected                         contributions
                employee for each type of     electronically                   unified although the
                     social insurance                                             project did not
                                                                                  contribute to it
Date achieved 1/1/2003                     12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
                ACHIEVED: The unified collection of unemployment, pension and disability
                contributions was achieved. The project team's evaluation in the last ISR
Comments        (09/14/2007) that indicated that there was no activity towards consolidation of
(incl. %        contribution collection and that the development objective will not be met was
achievement)    based on a broader interpretation of the indicator taking into consideration the
                plans by the Slovak Government to unify the collection of taxes, customs, social
                insurance and health contributions.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                  DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     07/09/2002             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     04/24/2003             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00

  3   10/27/2003         Satisfactory        Satisfactory     0.10
  4   06/22/2004         Satisfactory        Satisfactory     0.82
  5   12/29/2004         Satisfactory        Satisfactory     0.82
  6   06/15/2005      Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory     3.16
  7   04/18/2006       Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory    5.16
  8   12/20/2006       Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory    5.88
  9   03/21/2007       Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory    6.00
  10  07/17/2007       Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory    6.01
  11  11/06/2007       Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory    6.10



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Slovakia achieved an average annual real GDP growth of 6% during 1994-1997 ­ the
initial years of transition ­ unlike the experience of most other transition economies that
experienced deterioration in economic growth, particularly in the first years of
independence. This initial rapid growth situation was reversed in 1998, with GDP growth
rate declining to 4.1%, followed by 1.9% in 1999. One of the reasons for the reversal of
output growth was the absence of structural reforms supporting the sustainability of such
growth and promoting the transition to a market economy. In May 1999, the new
Government launched a stabilization program that demonstrated the Government's
commitment to structural reforms and improved prospects for initiating accession
negotiations with the European Union (EU). In 2000, with the impact of the improved
credibility of Slovakia in the international community due to the new Government's
commitment to restore sustainable growth based on stronger microeconomic foundations
supported by structural reforms, the overall macroeconomic situation improved,
negotiations with EU were formally initiated and Slovakia became a member of the
OECD.

The transition from a centrally planned to a market economy also required reforms in the
social protection system of Slovakia that failed to respond to the changing needs of a
market economy and support sustainable growth. The expenditures on social assistance
system were relatively high but covered a high proportion of the young population,
probably at the expense of more needy. In order to ensure that the social assistance
benefits reach the most vulnerable through improved targeting, the existing social
assistance system was to be reformed and supported by institutions with improved
administrative capacity. An improved system was even more important at a time of slow-
down in economic growth, rising unemployment and a decline in the available resources
due to fiscal measures as part of the stabilization program. The increased number of
unemployed following the enterprise restructuring during the transition period required
the National Employment Office to provide unemployment benefits and labor market
programs to an increased number of individuals to support their integration into the labor
markets. Slovakia's economic transition affected the fiscal balance of the pension system
as well. The pension system inherited from the socialist times and run on a pay-you-go
basis (contributions from current workers are used to pay benefits to current
beneficiaries) experienced declining revenues due to: (i) contribution arrears of the state-
owned enterprises; (ii) decline in the number of contributors as a result of increasing un-
employment; and (iii) increasing informal employment. At the same time, pension
expenditures were higher than anticipated due to ad-hoc pension adjustments. By 1999,
the pension system generated the first deficits and required transfers from the
Government budget. The long term pension system deficits as a share of GDP were
projected to increase if the existing parameters of the pension system were kept



                                                                                          1

unchanged. In order to better serve the main objectives of a pension system of reducing
old age poverty and replacing income from work into retirement, a comprehensive reform
that also included eliminating inefficiencies in the pension system administration was
needed. The Government recognized the need to address the weaknesses of the social
protection system to achieve its underlining objectives of reducing inequality and
poverty.

The objectives of the Social Benefits Reform Administration Project (SBRAP) responded
to the objectives of the Government to improve the efficiency of the social protection
system. The SBRAP was also consistent with the objectives of the 2001 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) that identified improving social security, enhancing human
development, and strengthening governance and institutions among its objectives. The
SBRAP would contribute to the Government and CAS objectives through assisting the
Borrower in establishing a modern, cost-effective and efficient social protection system
by designing a multi-pillar pension reform, improving collection and administration of
social contributions and strengthening the institutional capacity of Ministry of Labor,
Social Affairs and Family (MOLSAF), Social Insurance Agency (SIA) and National
Labor Office (NLO).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The objective of the project as indicated in the Loan Agreement (LA) was to assist the
Borrower in establishing a modern, cost-effective and efficient social protection system
by: (i) designing a multi-pillar pension reform; (ii) improving collection and
administration of social contributions; and (iii) strengthening the institutional capacity of
MOLSAF, SIA and NLO.

The objective of the project is formulated differently in the main text of the PAD as
follows: "The project's primary objective is to support the Government's plans for
pension reform by improving the policy framework and management of its social
protection system." This objective is followed by details on how this objective would be
achieved. Annex 1: Project Design Summary of the PAD and the ISRs had the following
five different PDOs: (i) improve quality of pension reform design; (ii) increase
compliance for social contributions; (iii) improve effectiveness of administration of social
contributions; (iv) improve image of social insurance institutions; and (v) improve quality
of employment and social programs.

The PDO was to be measured by the following seven outcome indicators as identified in
Annex 1 of the PAD and in the Supplemental Letter (SL):
    (i)    pension reform prepared and implementation supported;
    (ii)   compliance improved measured by revenues/(average wage*employment);
    (iii)   predictability improved by budgeted/actual revenues;
    (iv)   effectiveness of administration improved by measured by stock of
           arrears/revenues;




                                                                                           2

    (v)     efficiency of administration improved comparing Slovak costs/revenues to EU
            average costs/revenues;
    (vi)    client services improved measured by increases in numbers of inquiries
            received and answered; and
    (vii)   benefits reform prepared based on new information and studies.2 The LA did
            not identify any outcome indicators.

This ICR will use development objectives as presented in the LA in the evaluation of
outcome indicators.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

Not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The primary target groups were to be workers (including unemployed), pensioners and
individuals receiving social benefits and allowances. SIA was expected to benefit from
the project through improvements through cost reduction and auditing. MOLSAF was
expected to have improved human resources training. Employers were also expected to
benefit from improved services. The Government as a whole was expected to benefit
from the project through more effective operations, better policy evaluation and improved
decision making.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had three components: (i) Institutional Strengthening; (ii) Establishment of
Unified Contribution Collection System; and (iii) Development of a Client Database and
Other Information Systems (as identified in the PAD).

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening was designed to provide technical assistance
to support the policy design and administrative upgrading objectives of the SIA,
MOLSAF, and NLO in the following areas (i) pension reform design including actuarial
projections; (ii) public information for pension reform; (iii) human resource training; and
(iv)establishment of the PCU and PMUs.

Component 2: Establishment of Unified Contribution Collection System aimed to put
in place a modem infrastructure to process the financial flows to and from the SIA and
the NLO. The component would simplify the procedures for payment filing and


2Annex 1 had a shorter wording of the last indicator as follows: Benefits reform formulated.




                                                                                                3

declarations, introduce electronic filing for large taxpayers, and institute targeted audits
(audits for cause) and random audits in lieu of periodic audits. It would improve filing
procedures to include information for the client database.


Component 3: Development of a Client Data Base and other Information Systems
was designed to create the client database of individualized records necessary for a
modem public system in a market economy and for the reform of the pension system
from a mono-pillar to a multi-pillar scheme. It would also finance the development and
implementation of automation systems and infrastructure for the SIA necessary to ensure
efficient and effective delivery of services. It would improve client services in the SIA, as
well making inquiries easier and service faster. In addition, it would facilitate working
out potential problems in assigning individual records, supplementing current procedures
to appeal benefit determinations. It would also support database infrastructure
development for employment programs for the MOLSAF and NLO, and for social
assistance, social welfare, and workplace safety for the MOLSAF for program
monitoring and analysis.

The LA had a different wording for the components, but the descriptions in the two
documents were broadly similar.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The following changes were introduced in the project implementation arrangements and
the funding allocations.

    · The NLO, one of the implementing agencies of the project, was abolished by the
        Government and the implementation responsibilities of the NLO and the funds
        allocated to the NLO in the original design were turned over to the MOLSAF by
        the amendment to the Loan Agreement on September 23, 2005 based on the
        request from the Borrower on June 21, 2005.        3

    · At the request of the Government, Euro 15,944,365 of the loan was cancelled on
        February 14, 2006. Of the cancelled amount, Euro 11,434,365 was designated to
        SIA and Euro 4,510,000 was designated to MOLSAF reducing the total loan to
        the MOLSAF to Euro 10,255,635. The Government's request for this partial
        cancellation was based on the decision to finance these activities out of its own
        resources.


3The collection of unemployment insurance, decisions on unemployment benefits and payment of benefits
were transferred to SIA.




                                                                                                    4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Soundness of Background Analysis: The preparation of the project was supported by
technical assistance financed through the PHRD Grant. A significant amount of sector
work was undertaken under the grant including analysis of policy priorities and sectoral
needs4. Several reports were produced, including adequacy and efficiency of employment
services; actuarial simulations of the current pension system and proposed changes to
assist the Government in policy changes; contribution compliance and individualized
client database; unified contributions for employment services and social insurance
programs. These were incorporated to Aide Memoires for project preparation and in
seminars provided to government officials.

Assessment of Project Design: The project objectives and design were in line with the
Government's objectives, also identified in the CAS. The project had three (MOLSAF,
SIA and NLO at the time) implementing agencies that had complementing roles. While
MOLSAF was responsible for policy making and oversight, SIA and NLO were
responsible for implementation. Such complementary roles required an efficient
coordination and collaboration among the agencies that did not necessarily exist among
MOLSAF, SIA an NLO. This situation made it difficult for the institutions to efficiently
work together and agree on a project design. As result, the project preparation took a very
long time and the project became effective nine years after the effectiveness of the PHRD
Grant in 1993 that supported the preparation of the project and more than four years from
the Concept Note review meeting held in May 1998. This long preparation time suggests
that Borrower enthusiasm for the project may have been less than satisfactory in terms of
actually pursuing the reform agenda and establishing the IT infrastructure. A more
optimistic interpretation of this long preparation period could be that this might have
created a more firm understanding of project goals and activities among the various
stakeholders. In retrospect, however, a more realistic interpretation (on the basis of the
problems during implementation discussed below) would be that this could be an
indication of delays and disagreements during implementation. Indeed, the resulting
project design, with three inter-linked components, while substantively sound, involved a
real risk that implementation would follow the same difficult process in terms of reaching
a consensus among the three main implementing agencies.

While the actual project design was based on extensive work and consultations and took a
long time, the final set of outcome indicators was heavily focused on pensions despite the
fact that the PDO was to establish a modern, cost-effective and efficient social protection
system. Of the seven outcome indicators in the PAD, five were mainly related to
pensions. The outcome indicator that was related to social benefits was unclear. The


4The PHRD Grant was approved on 06/23/1993 and closed on 06/04/2001. The ICR dated 10/11/2002
rated the Grant "satisfactory" on those components related to the project.




                                                                                              5

outcome related to the improvement of client services as measured by the number of
inquiries received and answered was difficult to monitor.

Lessons Learned and Incorporated: The PAD noted that the following main lessons
learned were incorporated into the project design on the basis of the experience in the
implementation of similar projects in the Europe and Central Asia Region that indicated
that success depends on (i) support from the authorities at the highest level in the
implementing agencies; (ii) the willingness to accept technical assistance; (iii) clear
linkages between operational reforms and investment in information systems; (iv) the
development of appropriate software to support operational reforms; (v) the development
of software applications prior to purchase of hardware (vi) the development of a
committed and well-trained PCU to implement the project (vii) adequate training of staff
to use the new procedures; and (viii) coordinated policy objectives across Government
and agencies involved in the project.

Regrettably, it was precisely a lack of some of these factors that was ultimately
responsible for the unsatisfactory nature of this project. Most importantly, support from
the authorities at the highest levels fluctuated throughout the project implementation
period (discussed below).

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Factors that gave rise to problems:

Fluctuations in Government Commitment and Role of Implementing Agencies: In
the beginning of the project, there was no activity for about a year. In 2003, a new
Government came into power with a Minister for Labor who was fully supportive of
pension reform. As a result, the project began to move quickly on the pension reform side
(and not on the systems management systems part of the project) once a champion
emerged. The pension legislation on the new first pillar, second pillar and third pillar
were issued and implementation started. In this process, the SIA was required to respond
to the change in design and start collecting contributions based on individual accounts
and transfer these contributions to the private pension fund management companies. In
order to support this task, it was to purchase the new software and hardware to set up an
IT infrastructure that would efficiently support the needs of the new system design. Since
SIA was autonomous and had the authority to control its own budget and operations,
MOLSAF which was responsible for development of policies and implementation had
little power over SIA's decisions. The project management structure of SIA was changed
several times to provide for better project progress, but not much was achieved through
these efforts. Even the efforts of the Labor Minister committed to reform were not
sufficient to have the SIA undertake the necessary procurement activities under the
project. IT related procurement activities under the responsibility of MOLSAF were also
not undertaken.




                                                                                                6

With the appointment of the successor of the pro-reform Labor Minister, in October
2005, project progress considerably slowed down as all procurements under the project
were stopped pending review by the Government that decided not to use project funds for
a long overdue IT system for SIA, which was eventually cancelled in February 2006.

When yet another Government came in July 2006, there was a request for re-installment
of the loan funds. However, this never materialized because the activities agreed upon
for the re-installment were never undertaken by the implementing agencies.

This fluctuating commitment indicates lack of a long-term vision and institutional
weaknesses that made the implementing agencies open to political changes. As a result,
even the efforts of the Labor Minister committed to reform were not sufficient in
resolving the impasse with SIA.

Procurement, Governance and Availability of Other Sources. Project funds that were
initially additional to the budget allocation to SIA was later on included in the overall
budget allocation to SIA by the MOF. The fact that SIA had to follow Bank's
procurement guidelines for IT procurement ­ guidelines which do not allow the use of
brand names or tailoring of specifications and bidding documents to particular suppliers-
made the Bank resources much less desirable to SIA. As a result, the SIA was not able to
finalize preparation of the technical specifications and bidding documents for the IT
procurement that would meet the standard requirements of the Bank. This led to major
delays in procurement and eventually to the cancellation of the IT component. Although
the implementing agencies were willing to respond to the new system design after the
reform, they were not willing to use project funds to undertake the required tasks. The
availability of EU structural funds also affected the decisions of the implementing
agencies to opt not to use Bank financing.

Project Management: A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established within
MOLSAF responsible for managing the activities under the project.         Although the
Government was able to staff the Project Management Units (PMU) - responsible for the
management of the technical activities- under each implementing agency quickly, the
lack of coordination and ownership made the PMUs dysfunctional. With changes in
staffing, by 2006 the PCU was left with two staff only, down from seven staff in 2002.
The first PCU Director was not able to move the project forward and was replaced
following the appointment of the pro-reform Labor Minister in 2003. However, with the
departure of the pro-reform Labor Minister and appointment of his successor in October
2005, the close association of the existing PCU director with the former minister had a
negative impact on project management performance. The PCU director was changed
twice after the second PCU director undermining continuity in project management. The
project did not have a fully functional Steering Committee.

Decision of Bank Management to Continue with the Project: Despite the slow
progress of the project and the apparent lack of Government commitment, the project was
not restructured or closed. In the end, the project ended up being an operation that
provided technical assistance to the MOLSAF in designing and implementing pension



                                                                                       7

reform only. The project was rated unsatisfactory in the last five ISRs, but the Bank
continued to support it in the hope that the remaining activities would be implemented
successfully.

Factors that Contributed to the Success of the Project:

Technical Assistance Provided by the Bank: The Bank was successful in identifying
and providing the technical assistance required for the implementation of pension reform.
The expertise of the Bank team was highly valued by the counterparts and supported the
creation of a team of government officials who understand different aspects of pension
reform. Despite the fact that the project had multiple task team leaders, it is creditworthy
that the transitions were smooth and seamless.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project team did not use the monitoring indicators identified in the original SL and
the PAD. Instead, the project was monitored using key performance indicators presented
in the ISRs in June 2005.5 These indicators were not legally binding because a revised
SL was never issued. However, they were broadly in line with the PDO and reflected the
intended outcomes and outputs to be measured. Except for one indicator, all indicators
were monitored regularly and updated in the ISRs following supervision missions.
Evaluation of the monitoring and evaluation system designed for the project is as follows:

      Output and outcome indicators in the PAD did not have baseline and target values.
      The indicators agreed upon and presented in the ISR in June 2005 were fewer than
      the indicators set out in the PAD. Similar to the indicators in the PAD, they
      focused more on the pension reform aspects of the project. In addition to four
      pension related indicators, the new indicators included the indicator "improved
      access to job search capacity". However, this indicator was not monitored during
      the course of the project.
      Neither the indicators in the PAD and SL nor those agreed upon subsequently were
      associated with individual components of the project.
      Indicators developed during implementation were mainly related to those
      components of the project that seemed to be working and, therefore did not fully
      capture the direction of the project.
      The indicator `implicit pension debt' is a good indicator to measure the fiscal
      sustainability. An indicator complementing this - and one that would be more
      intuitive to the counterparts - would be presenting the pre-reform and post­reform
      (projected) revenues, expenditures and resulting deficit/surplus of the pension
      system.
      The indicator related to the compliance rate of social contributions is monitored as
      the collection rate. Compliance rate and collection rate could be presented as two
      different indicators, as compliance is more related to the coverage and collection is
      related to the performance of the pension fund in collecting contributions from

5SL did not include output indicators.




                                                                                          8

      those who are already paying contributions. There are difficulties involved in
      calculating an accurate compliance rate as governments do not know exactly the
      number of employed and the level of earnings. On the other hand, the collection
      rate is monitorable with some level of efficiency in administration, which is the
      reason why the project team chose to monitor this indicator.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

No safeguards were triggered. The project was classified as environmental Category C.

Financial Management: The Midterm Review conducted in May 2005 rates the
financial management arrangements as moderately satisfactory. The Midterm review
identified delays in financial management reports and provided recommendations
towards simplifying the reports and on procedures as to record keeping. The financial
supervision mission conducted in May 2007 concluded that the financial arrangements
for the project were satisfactory to the Bank. The independent audit concluded that the
financial statements were in accordance with the accounting principles and practices set
forth in relevant World Bank guidelines.

Procurement: The Midterm Review conducted in May 2005 reviewed the procurement
arrangements, procurement management and procurement planning which fell under the
responsibility of the PCU and recommended that the procurement planning and
management, as well as the overall quality of procurement documentation prepared by
the PCU, should be improved. In the procurement activities that were undertaken, there
were no mis-procurement issues. However, the Mid-term Review identified some
deviations from the Bank standard procedures and provided recommendations to correct
the deviations. The component that involved the major IT procurement activity was
cancelled mainly due to the reluctance of SIA to use Bank funds as explained above in
Section 2.2. By the end of the project, the procurement activities that were undertaken
were mainly consultants' contracts and activities related to the public information
campaign. During the course of the project, there was a change in the procurement
guidelines and this was reflected in the procurement plan by a change in the loan
agreement.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The Slovak Government introduced major pension reforms in 2003 and 2004. The
reforms included changes in the existing pay-as-you-go system as well as introduction of
a privately managed, fully funded defined contribution second pillar. Pension reforms by
nature are difficult because they require long term planning by governments faced with
short-term pressures. Slovak pension reform supported by this project was no exception.
The appointment of a dedicated Minister in 2003, the help of technical assistance and a
successful public information campaign made this reform possible. While there was room


                                                                                            9

for improvement in many areas, the Slovak reform was perceived as one of the successful
reforms in the region.

A number of changes were introduced to the pension system in recent years that are not
necessarily in line with the original design. A major change that was legislated in 2007
and introduced in January 2008 by the current Government made the second pillar
optional for new entrants, and current participants were given a six month window (until
end June 2008) to opt out (or in) of the second pillar. At the same, the legislation
provided an option for the relatively older switchers (who should not have switched to the
second pillar in the first place) to switch back to the first pillar (pay-as-you-go). At the
end of June 2008, about 106,600 individuals accounting for 6.7 percent of the 1.6 million
second pillar participants switched back to the first pillar, while 23,000 first pillar
participants chose to switch to the second pillar.6 The low number of participants who
decided to switch back can be interpreted as a high level of confidence in the new system.
However, the sustainability of the pension reform is still at risk as the second pillar
continues to be voluntary for the new entrants..

No follow-up operation by the Bank is planned.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives of the project, by virtue of establishing a modern efficient social
protection system and institutions with improved capacity, were relevant to the objectives
of the Government at the time of project approval and remain relevant.

The objectives of the project remain relevant to the Bank's assistance strategy for
Slovakia. The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) in 2004 notes the importance of
building on recent public sector expenditures reforms to meet the Maastricht Criteria. As
such, the CPS refers to the importance of implementation of pension and social assistance
reforms to improve work incentives and reduce a poverty trap, and the need for
information technology reforms as Slovakia moves to a unified contribution system.

The relevance of the project design is less clear. This is mainly due to the different
policies of the current Government from the previous Government related to the on
pension reform and on unified contribution collection as explained below:




6 As of end of 2007, there were about 185,000 individuals above the age of 45 who had switched to the
second pillar. The age distribution of those who opted out of the system was not available at the time of the
preparation of the ICR. For most second pillar participants who are relatively older, switching back to the
first pillar would be a correction of a decision which would most likely reduce the total pension benefit in
retirement although individual cases may vary.




                                                                                                           10

     · The objectives of the project to establish a modern, efficient social protection
         system included introduction of a multi-pillar pension system. As discussed, the
         current Government has made the second pillar voluntary to new entrants and
         gave the option to the current contributors to switch back to the first pillar. The
         Government is also considering to reducing the contribution rate diverted to the
         second pillar. The primary motivation behind these amendments is the
         Government's desire to maintain SIA's revenues, instead of diverting some
         portion of the contributions to the second pillar (transition cost), which would
         increase SIA's needs for government transfers to finance pension expenditures.
         While the plans of the previous Government were to finance the transition cost
         from privatization revenues, the current Government is unlikely to have such
         revenues as it has a different approach to privatization. In its contribution to this
         ICR (See Annex 4), the current Government describes the introduction of the
         second pillar as being outdated and too ambitious.

     · The project design envisaged a unified collection of social insurance
         contributions. Interviews with government officials indicate that the current
         Government's plan is to establish a central registry that will unify tax, customs
         and social insurance contributions. Thus, establishing a separate unified
         collection system for social contributions would not be an efficient use of
         resources and would not serve the current needs while a broader unification of
         collection of revenues is planned.

The objectives of the project related to improving efficiency in administration still remain
relevant. The discussions with the project beneficiaries and Government's contribution to
this ICR indicate that SIA is working towards improving its systems to that will
contribute to improved administration and provide a basis for management decisions.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The achievement of PDO is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

The objective of the project was to assist the Borrower in establishing a modern, cost-
effective and efficient social protection system by (i) designing a multi-pillar pension
reform (ii) improving collection and administration of social contributions (iii)
strengthening the institutional capacity of MOLSAF, SIA. As indicated in Section F, the
objectives were to be assessed by seven outcome indicators and five output indicators in
the PAD and the SL. The project team produced a different set of outcome and output
indicators in ISR in June 2005 to monitor the project. The values for the seven outcome
indicators (baseline and current) were produced, to the extent possible, by the ICR team
and presented in Section F. The following text discusses the achievement of the project
objective based on the outcome indicators in the PAD and SL and those monitored in the
ISRs. As the ISRs did not associate the outcome indicators with the specific development
objectives, the evaluation will determine as appropriate and discuss those that are



                                                                                             11

relevant to each. Because of the intricate relationships between the second and the third
objectives, their achievement will be assessed together.

Designing a Multi-pillar Pension Reform:

The project was designed to provide technical assistance to the Government in designing
a multi-pillar pension system. Extensive technical assistance -through consultants and
World Bank staff- was provided as part of the project.

The reform process started with changes to the public pay-as-you go system. The
previous pension system inherited from former Czechoslovakia had a benefit formula that
contained major elements of redistribution. The 2003 reform (effective in January 2004)
converted the traditional pay-as-you-go system to the German point system in which the
benefits are computed based on the number of points accumulated throughout an
individual's career, ensuring that benefits reflect lifetime wages. Benefits are actuarially
reduced for early retirement and increased for delayed retirement. Post-retirement
benefits are indexed using Swiss indexation. These reforms improved transparency and
tightened the link between contributions and benefits, which reduced incentives for
noncompliance. In response to the gradually increasing life expectancy, the retirement
ages were gradually increased to 62 for both men and women. This will reduce the
average period of benefit collection in retirement and therefore will reduce total benefit
costs and increase pension system revenue, as workers will contribute to the scheme for
more years. These reforms were also important from the point of view of contributing to
creating the fiscal space necessary for the introduction of a fully funded second pillar.

A further reform in 2004 (implemented in 2005) allowed current workers to choose to
invest part of their contribution in privately managed pension funds. The contributions of
the individual together with the investment earnings on the individual account would
supplement the public pension. In exchange for the reduction in contribution to the
public system, the future benefit provided by the public system would be reduced by half.
Nine points of the total contribution rate were allocated for the private accounts. Because
a little less than a third of the contribution was diverted to private accounts in exchange
for a 50% reduction in future public pension, the introduction of the private funded
system improved the fiscal sustainability of the public pension system in the long run. In
the short run, however, because revenues to the public system are reduced from the
diversion of some contributions to the private system while the number of current
pensioners and their benefit levels remain fixed, the public system was still expected to
run deficits.7

In 2005, supplementing these earnings-related schemes a voluntary privately managed
third pillar, intended to provide individuals with a mechanism for supplementing the
benefits provided by the mandatory pillars was introduced.8

7The fiscal impact of these reforms are discussed in Annex 3.

8 A voluntary pension system was introduced in 1996, but had a different structure.



                                                                                         12

This ICR evaluates the achievement of this objective by the following four outcome
indicators as listed in Section F:

Indicator 1: Pension Reform Prepared and Implementation Supported (PAD and SL)
Indicator 8: Pension System Becomes More Fiscally Sustainable (ISRs)
Indicator 9: Pension System Becomes Diversified by Addition of Second Pillar (ISRs)
Indicator 11: Opinion Polls Rank Pension Reform Highly (ISRs)

Indicator 1 & 9 were achieved by the parametric changes in the first pillar and the
introduction of second and third pillars. All three pillars were operational by the end of
the project. The technical assistance provided under the project contributed significantly
to the achievement of these indicators.

Based on the ISR in June 2005, 58.7% of the public rated pension reform highly and
pension reform was rated as the best of the reforms, demonstrating that the image of
pension reform had improved and hence Indicator 11 was achieved during the course of
the project. However, no information was available about this indicator based on the last
ISR for the project and therefore the image of pension reform cannot be evaluated after
several years of implementation.

The project team identified `implicit pension debt' to monitor Indicator 8 in the ISRs to
measure the fiscal sustainability of the pension reform. The pre-reform implicit pension
debt which was 304% of GDP was projected to go down by 34% of GDP following the
reform, 4% higher than the target value of 30% identified. With the recent changes in the
pension system that made the second pillar voluntary for new entrants, the precise impact
of this change on implicit pension debt will depend largely on the choices people make.
Given that very few second pillar contributors switched back to the first pillar, and almost
all new entrants actively choose private funds, very little will change. Revenues are
unlikely to rise significantly to the public first pillar -which was one of the primary
motivations of the recent amendments- and future public pension expenditures are
unlikely to rise substantially.    However, fiscal projections indicate that in an even
moderate case, small revenue gains in the short run will be outweighed by substantially
higher pension expenditures in the long run, with serious implications for the fiscal
sustainability of the pension system (See Annex 3).

Despite a successful pension reform, the recent amendments to the pension legislation put
sustainability of this PDO at risk and it is therefore rated moderately satisfactory.

Improving collection and administration of social contributions & strengthening the
institutional capacity of MOLSAF and SIA

The project was designed to support improvement of the collection and administration of
social contributions. This objective was to be achieved through the establishment of a
unified contribution collection system for social insurance and unemployment insurance
contributions that would be supported by modern IT infrastructure. This was expected to



                                                                                         13

simplify procedures for payment of contributions and would improve auditing capacity.
Moreover, SIA's IT infrastructure was to be improved to ensure effective and efficient
delivery of services as well as to create individualized records to support the functioning
of the fully funded defined contribution second pillar.

The procurement of the IT infrastructure that was to support the achievement of this
objective was never realized as part of the project. SIA used its own resources to put in
place the infrastructure to support individualized records and no major problems were
reported in its implementation. However, SIA never agreed to the recommendation by the
Bank during the period of implementation to undertake a technical audit on the
functioning of the individualized records. As a result, the Bank and the ICR team do not
have sufficient information and an objective basis to evaluate the implementation of the
individual records system.

As part of the project, the MOLSAF staff was trained on pension reform through
seminars and workshops as well as through working with World Bank staff and
consultants during the preparation and implementation of pension reform. As a result a
technical team with a good understanding of reform issues had emerged at the MOLSAF.
However, most of these team members are either no longer employed by the MOLSAF
(although they may still be employed by other government institutions) or are not
actively involved in reform issues.

The computer system that would improve the capacity of the NLO (which was then part
of the MOLSAF) was never procured. The automated client database system which was
to improve efficiency of administration of benefits and the management decision making
process was not established. SIA established the individual accounts using its resources
that increased its capacity to monitor individual cases. An automated system to undertake
the necessary cross-checks between different databases for old-age, disability, social
assistance and unemployment is not in place.

This ICR evaluates the achievement of this objective by the following eight outcome
indicators as listed in Section F. For those indicators where numeric values are required
to assess the achievement of the objective, it was not meaningful for the ICR team to
propose target values. Therefore, while the baseline values and actual values by the end
of the project computed by the ICR team are evaluated, an assessment on the
achievement of target values was not possible.

Indicator    2: Compliance Rate Improved as Measured by revenues/(average
wage*employment) (PAD & SL)
Indicator 3: Predictability Improved as measured by budgeted/actual revenues (PAD &
SL)
Indicator 4: Effectiveness of Administration as measured by improved by stock of
arrears/revenues (PAD & SL)
Indicator 5: Efficiency of Administration Improved comparing Slovak costs/revenues to
EU average costs/revenues (PAD & SL)




                                                                                        14

Indicator 6: Client Services Improved Measured by Increases in the Number of Inquiries
Received and Answered (PAD & SL)
Indicator 7: Benefits Reform Prepared (PAD & SL)
Indicator 10: Compliance Rate for Social Contributions Increases (ISRs)
Indicator 12: Improved Access to Job Search Capacity (ISRs)

The PAD did not identify baseline and target values for Indicator 2. Rough calculations
by the ICR team show that the compliance rate improved by 13% as discussed in Section
F. The project team monitored the collection rate instead of the compliance rate
(Indicator 10). The collection rate increased and reached the target values by the end of
the project and hence the outcome indicator was achieved.

While SIA managed to reduce the stock of arrears as a share of revenues over the project
indicating improved effectiveness in collecting contributions (Indicator 4), its capacity to
predict the revenues deteriorated (Indicator 3).

Whether the client services improved during the course of the project is uncertain as SIA
was not able to provide this information (Indicator 6).

The achievement of Indicator 7 is unclear as this indicator is too vague for the ICR team
to make a meaningful assessment.

Indicator 12 is not achieved as job searchers still do not have access to a consolidated
database that provides information regarding job opportunities around the country.
Overall, while some of the indicators show an improvement that could be interpreted as
improvement in institutional capacity, these are not sufficient to conclude a significant
improvement in the institutional capacity of MOLSAF and SIA.

Based on the above this PDO is rated moderately unsatisfactory.


3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The economic analysis undertaken and presented in the PAD included a cost-benefit
analysis of the project. The PAD lists (i) improved consolidated budget fiscal balance
through pension reform (ii) improved tax compliance (iii) improved services to
beneficiaries, (iv) improved services to payers and, (v) reduced administrative costs as
expected benefits from the project.

The economic analysis in the PAD was based only on the improved compliance expected
as a result of installment of IT infrastructure. As the IT related part of the project was
cancelled, such analysis is considered irrelevant for the purposes of this ICR and hence
not undertaken.




                                                                                                15

Despite the fact that the PAD refers to fiscal sustainability of the pension system as the
greatest potential benefit from the project, no analysis was actually undertaken on fiscal
sustainability as the design of the pension reform was not exactly known. The projections
undertaken using the PROST model during the project period showed a significant
improvement in the fiscal balance of the pension system following the reforms. However,
the fiscal impact is uncertain with the recent amendment to the pension legislation. The
details of the fiscal impact analysis are presented in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

A ranking of Moderately Unsatisfactory was assigned rather than an Unsatisfactory
because despite the fact that the project has not met most of its development objectives, a
major policy change was decided in the design of the pension system, legislated and
successfully implemented under the Project with major expected long run fiscal savings.
The sustainability of the reform is now at risk with the recent amendments introduced to
the design of the second pillar by the current Government and the introduction of certain
non-contributory benefits that are not consistent with the objectives of the reform and that
negatively affect the fiscal sustainability of the public pension scheme but do not change
the multi-pillar nature of the Slovak pension system. A major portion of the project was
not implemented at all resulting in a partial cancellation of the Loan in February 2006. At
the end of the project, the remaining large portion of the Loan was also cancelled (Euro
5,280,942.12 on May 9, 2008). Only 25 percent of Loan funds was used to support
project implementation.


Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

    (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Following the introduction of pension reforms, the fiscal deficit of the pension system
was projected to decrease over time. If the government resources that were to be used to
finance pension deficits were to be allocated and efficiently used on sectors such as
education, health and infrastructure that are essential for poverty reduction, the project
could indirectly have had some poverty impact. With the 2007 amendments in the
pension legislation, the improvement in the fiscal sustainability of the pension system is
less clear now and, therefore, the poverty impact is much less certain.

It is also important to note that the main objectives of a pension system are poverty
alleviation and smoothing consumption from work to retirement.. A mixed system -such
as the current pension system in Slovakia- in which workers have both unfunded defined
benefit and funded defined contribution plans is expected to reduce the retirement income
risk compared to a pure unfunded defined benefit plan. This is because while a public
pay-as-you-go plan is subject to labor market risks as labor market developments


                                                                                         16

(specifically labor force and wage growth) determine the internal rate of return in a pay-
as-you-go plan, it is not directly subject to the risks related to the financial markets. On
the other hand, funded defined contribution plans are directly related to the financial
market risks as the benefits in retirement depend on the rate of return from investment of
individual retirement savings in financial markets (for example, through pension funds).
As a result, retirement income from different sources is considered desirable as it
provides greater diversification against largely uncorrelated risks. Therefore, a multi-
pillar pension system supported by the SBRAP system in Slovakia is expected to
diversify retirement income and, therefore, better serve the poverty alleviation objective
of a pension system and hence contribute to poverty reduction.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Institutional strengthening was one of the objectives of the project. The project was
designed to support improvement of the collection and administration of social
contributions; to ensure efficient and effective delivery of services and to enable the
necessary cross-checks between different databases for old-age, disability, social
assistance and unemployment is not in place. An improved IT infrastructure was to be
established to support these improvements. Also, the project design included technical
assistance to train the staff in the implementing agencies. As discussed in detail in
Section 3.2., the improvement achieved in institutional capacity of MOLSAF and SIA
was not significant.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The introduction of a second pillar by nature requires a regulatory and a supervisory
capacity. The Slovak institutions had to develop such institutional capacity for the
smooth functioning of the second pillar.

Second pillar reforms also require a certain level of financial market development in the
beginning. Over time, however, they help the improvement in financial market
development as pension fund management companies are introduced and funds are
invested either in domestic or international markets. Currently there are six pension fund
management companies operating in Slovakia managing pension savings through
investments in international and domestic financial markets.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High




                                                                                              17

With the recent amendments to the pension legislation that made the second pillar
voluntary for new entrants, the development outcome to the extent that it was achieved is
at high risk. The fiscal impact of a moderate response to the amendment is significant
with an almost doubling of the long run pension deficit.(details discussed in Annex 3).
Possible further amendments to pension legislation discussed in the previous sections are
likely to further worsen the fiscal sustainability of the pension system.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

During the time of project preparation, extensive technical work analyzing the social
protection/insurance sector and reform needs was undertaken and presented to the
Government. This technical work encouraged discussions and exchange of ideas among
the beneficiaries and stakeholders. However, the preparation took a very long time. The
project became effective nine years after the effectiveness of the PHRD Grant in 1993
that supported the preparation of the project. Review of the project preparation
documents indicates that it took the Government quite a long time to decide on the design
and scope of the project probably due to the amount of time it took for the implementing
institutions to prioritize and agree on the areas for the project to cover. There was no
Quality-at-Entry review which is regrettable particularly considering the extensive
preparation period.

Following such a long period of preparation, the first negotiations were undertaken in
September 1998. The negotiations were then postponed to 2001. It appears that after
such a long period of preparation, the final adjustments to the project documents were
introduced in a rush which affected the clarity and coherence of these documents and led
to inconsistencies between the main project documents.

Based on the above, the Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry of the project is
rated moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project was monitored regularly by the Bank. The Bank team was diligent in its
communication with the Government and the Bank Management, providing up-to-date
information and analysis on the status and impact of project activities, issues
encountered, and options as to how best to deal with the changes that occurred during
project implementation. These changes required a number of modifications to the legal
documents which were effectively carried out in a timely manner. The mission reports,


                                                                                      18

including the Mid-term Review, the ISRs and follow-up letters to the Government, were
submitted on a regular basis. Especially during the period of pension reform, the Bank
staff had a very good relationship with the MOLSAF and provided effective support to
the team during the evaluation of impact of various pension reform options and in
establishing the legal and regulatory framework required for the functioning of a multi-
pillar pension system. In the last two years of implementation, the project suffered a
major set-back, resulting in the partial cancellation of the Loan, and the Bank team rated
it realistically in the ISRs as unsatisfactory. The team also contemplated an early closing
of the project due to persisting problems with IT procurement. However, in the end, the
Bank team continued to provide support for the project, giving the Slovak project team a
chance to turn the project around. Unfortunately, despite many efforts and attempts to
resurrect this project, there were no positive results. In retrospect, the Bank could have
been more proactive in closing this project when it became obvious that the development
objectives could not be achieved under this operation.

In identifying the outcome and output indicators the Bank team chose to focus narrowly
on those parts of the project that seemed to be working. The indicators identified by the
Bank team and agreed upon with the Government were very few and did not fully capture
the whole project. Also, the output indicators were not associated with individual
components.

Based on the above, the Bank's performance on the quality of supervision is judged to be
moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Bank's overall performance is on balance rated moderately unsatisfactory on the
basis of the aforementioned factors. Overall, the Bank could have done a better job in
realistically assessing the high risks of this operation, particularly given its own extensive
experience in designing the project with the Government during the nine years of project
preparation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Pursuing the reform agenda supported by the project required a strong commitment and a
long term vision by the Government. However, support from the authorities at the highest
levels fluctuated throughout the project implementation period. One Government's vision
of pension reform was not shared by its successor. This is clear from the recent
amendments to the pension legislation.
.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                                                                           19

The MOLSAF and SIA were the implementing agencies of the project. In the course of
project, MOLSAF benefited from the technical assistance provided by the project with
many MOLSAF staff (along with other related agencies) receiving training on pension
reform that contributed significantly to improving their capacity. An informed team of
government officials on pension reform supported a smooth implementation of the
reform. However, MOLSAF was not able to maintain this core team and ensure its
continuation. Moreover, in other aspects of the project, MOLSAF did not effectively
perform its role to oversee the project and ensure a successful implementation. One
aspect of the project which MOLSAF was successful in was to carry out the public
information campaign that highly contributed to gaining public support for pension
reform. The computer system that would improve the capacity of the NLO (which was
then part of the MOLSAF) to provide improved employments services was never
procured. The tender documents had all been prepared and in fact interest in the tender
had been solicited from firms before being abruptly cancelled by the Government..

The inability of the SIA to decide on the sizable IT procurement as part of the project
delayed project progress. Eventually, the SIA component was cancelled as SIA chose to
use its own resources for the establishment of the individual records required for
implementing the reform. The SIA managed to implement changes in the first pillar
pension scheme as well as establishing the introduction of the second pillar in a relatively
short period of time and with no major complaints received from the beneficiaries and
stakeholders involved. In the absence of a technical audit for SIA, however, it is not
possible to make an objective assessment as to the accuracy of individual accounts
established by SIA.

This fluctuating commitment that indicates lack of a long-term vision and institutional
weaknesses led to less than satisfactory progress in project implementation.


   (b) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

   Rating: The overall rating for Borrower's performance is unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The following lessons learned:

   · A long period of preparation involving disagreements between the implementing
       agencies is an indication of potential problems that may arise during project
       implementation.
   · It is important to assess Government and cross-party commitment before
       designing a complex reform project, as a project without sufficient broad buy-in
       may not be sustainable.




                                                                                         20

    · Continuation of a project despite obvious signs of a lack of Government's
       commitment is a mistake. In such cases, the Bank should seriously consider
       closing the project as an option.
    · Technical Assistance provided by the Bank is still relevant and highly valued in
       the new EU countries provided it is aligned with the country's needs and
       delivered in a timely and appropriate manner.
    · Pooling of World Bank and EU funds and thereby leveraging EU funds to support
       social sector reforms could be a useful tool.
    · The probability of success in any reform, including in social sectors, is higher
       where there is a reform champion, but broader support is needed for
       sustainability. To institutionalize new systems, processes and practices and
       ensuring the sustainability of ownership by the implementing agencies is also
       essential.
    · More care should be taken by project teams to prepare more consistent project
       documents in order to make project evaluation easier.
    · Project teams should agree on a set of well-defined relevant indicators and
       carefully monitor them during project implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's Completion Report has been received and filed. A summary can be
found in Annex 7. The Borrower rated the project as partially satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not Applicable




                                                                                   21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

(1) INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING                             4.89                4.33           89.14

(2) UNIFIED CONTRIBUTION
COLLECTION SYSTEM                        10.21                0.00            0.00

(3) CLIENT DATA BASE AND
OTHER INFORMATION                        19.58                3.12           15.92
SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT


            Total Baseline Cost          34.68                7.45           18.57

Physical Contingencies                    2.79                0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                       2.80                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs         40.27                7.45           18.57
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00                0.00              0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00                0.00              0.00
      Total Financing Required           40.27                7.45           18.57




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          16.73        1.34         8.01
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   23.54        6.11         25.96




                                                                                       22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

In the interest of the flow and clarity of the discussion in this report, the assessments
related to the outputs by component are provided also upfront in Section F. This section
presents a summary of the achievements under each component.

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening (actual total cost is US$ 4.33 million) was
designed to provide technical assistance to support the policy design and administrative
upgrading objectives of the SIA, MOLSAF, and NLO in the following areas (i) pension
reform design including actuarial projections; (ii) public information for pension reform;
(iii) human resource training; and (iv)establishment of the PCU and PMUs.

Achievements under Component 1: The project was designed to provide technical
assistance to the Government in designing a multi-pillar pension system. Extensive
technical assistance ­through local and international consultants and World Bank staff-
was provided as part of the project. The technical assistance was provided on capital
market issues, pension benefits, survivor and disability pensions, actuarial forecasting
and modeling and preparation of pension legislation contributed to the preparation and
implementation of pension reform.

A major part of the funds in this component was used to finance the public information
campaign to help explain the reform to the Slovak population supported the preparation
and subsequent implementation of pension reform. Activities contracted included public
opinion surveys, communication campaign to support the legislative process,
establishment of a phone call-centre, design of a special TV program covering pension
reform, preparation of brochures on pension reform. Based on the information from the
ISR of June 2005, 58.7% of public rated pension reform highly and pension reform was
rated as the best of the reforms enacted by the Government. The public information
campaign undertaken as part of the project is cited as one of the main reasons for this
high rating.

The project financed seminars, workshops and study tours on pension and social
insurance for government officials and members of the parliament. Other funds were
used on project management for project audit, translation services and hiring and training
of PCU staff.

Component 2: Establishment of Unified Contribution Collection System (actual total
cost is US$ 0.00 million) aimed to put in place a modem infrastructure to process the
financial flows to and from the SIA and the NLO. The component would simplify the
procedures for payment filing and declarations, introduce electronic filing for large
taxpayers, and institute targeted audits (audits for cause) and random audits in lieu of
periodic audits. It would improve filing procedures to include information for the client
database.

Achievements under Component 2: Collection of unemployment, pension and disability
contributions were unified during the period         of the project using although the




                                                                                        23

Government used its own resources to finance this activity. No project funds were used
under this component.


Component 3: Development of a Client Data Base and other Information Systems
(actual total cost is US$ 3.12 million) was designed to create the client database of
individualized records necessary for a modem public system in a market economy and for
the reform of the pension system from a mono-pillar to a multi-pillar scheme. It would
also finance the development and implementation of automation systems and
infrastructure for the SIA necessary to ensure efficient and effective delivery of services.
It would improve client services in the SIA, as well making inquiries easier and service
faster. In addition, it would facilitate working out potential problems in assigning
individual records, supplementing current procedures to appeal benefit determinations. It
would also support database infrastructure development for employment programs for the
MOLSAF and NLO and for social assistance, social welfare, and workplace safety for the
MOLSAF for program monitoring and analysis.


Achievements under Component 3: The funds under this component were mainly used
for the procurement of hardware and software for COLSAF (successor of NLO at
MOLSAF) and other office equipment that contributed to the capacity improvement for
COLSAF on providing employment services. However, the achievement is much less
than was planned under the project.




                                                                                         24

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Among the improvements included in the project design, the fiscal impact of the pension
reform is the one that is measurable. In the PAD, the fiscal impact of pension reform was
not estimated based on the fact that the details of the new pension system design were not
known. The Bank with inputs from the Government projected the pre-reform and post-
reform long term revenues, expenditures and the resulting fiscal balance of the first pillar
pay-as-you-go          using     Pension     Reform       Options     Simulation       Toolkit    (PROST).
Subsequently, recent changes introduced by the new Government were also incorporated
into the fiscal impact analysis.

Figure 1 shows the fiscal impact of the two reforms compared to the pre-reform situation.
Projections suggested the pension scheme would be in deficit that would eventually reach
an amount equivalent to 10% of GDP in 2050. Following the reforms, the deficits were
projected go down to around 4.5% of GDP by 2050. The 2003 reform (parametric
changes to the first pillar) was expected to generate small surpluses in the early years
from the rising retirement age, the systematic indexation which was lower than the
average previous ad hoc indexation had been, and with the lengthening of the averaging
period for the pensionable base from the average of the highest 5 in the last 10 years to all
10 years and gradually increasing to full career as the wage histories were accumulated in
the Social Insurance Agency. However, in practice, various discretionary increases have
been granted in the intervening years and the public part of the pension system, even
without the transition to the second pillar or private pension funds, is continuing to run
deficits.

Figure 1: Comparison of 2003 and 2004 reforms with pre-reform pension system


                                  Pension System Balance as % of GDP


                    5.0%

            PDGfo  (5.0%)20082013 2018 2023 2028 2033 2038 2043 2048 2053 2058 2063 2068 2073 2078
                 %(10.0%)

                  (15.0%)

                                                              Year


                                           2003 Reform        2004 reform      Pre-reform




                                                                                                       25

While a number of legislative changes were made in the intervening years, the most
critical change was made in 2007, reopening the issue of private pension funds as
discussed in the previous sections of the report. The precise fiscal impact of this change
will depend largely on what choices people make. If very few private fund contributors
choose to switch back to the public system and almost all new entrants actively choose
private funds, very little will change. Revenues are unlikely to rise significantly for the
public system, which was one of the primary motivations of the amendment, and future
public pension expenditures are unlikely to rise substantially. However, in an even
moderate case, small revenue gains in the short run will be outweighed by substantially
higher pension expenditures in the long run, with serious implications for the fiscal
sustainability of the public pension system. The fiscal impact of a moderate response is
shown in Figure 2 below.              The moderate case assumes that all those private fund
contributors above the age of 47 will return to the public system, and a net 10% of private
fund contributors at lower ages will also choose to return. Among new entrants, already
60% are not actively choosing a private pension fund and opting for whatever is assigned
to them. If this same 60% who are not currently making an active decision continue not
to make active decisions, then 60% of new entrants will remain in the public system. The
impact is significant with an almost doubling of the long run pension deficit. While it
may seem that the long run negative impact depicted in Figure 2 is a long way off, the
substantial increase in deficits will occur about the time when today's new entrants who
are choose to be only in the public system begin to retire.

Figure 2: Projected Public Pension System Finances under Moderate Assumptions
with 2007

                                 Pension System Balance as % of GDP


                   2.0%

            PDGfo (2.0%)
                      2008 2013 2018 2023 2028 2033 2038 2043 2048 2053 2058 2063 2068 2073 2078
                 %(4.0%)

                  (6.0%)

                                                            Year


                                       2003 Reform       2004 reform       2007 Amendment




                                                                                                   26

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


   (a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                 Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
                                                                No
Emily Andrews             Former TTL and Senior Human
                          Resources Economist w/ ECSHD       longer w/
                                                             the Bank
Carlos Ferreira           Consultant                         ECSHD
Virginia Jackson          Consultant                         MNSHD
Hiran Herat               Consultant                          ECSPF
Supervision/ICR
Zoran Anusic              Senior Economist                   ECSHD
Anita M. Schwarz          Lead Economist                     ECSHD
Emily Andrews             Former TTL
Olena Fadyeyeva           Operations Officer                  SECPS
Rohit R. Mehta            Senior Finance Officer             LOAFC
Jan Pakulski              Sr. Social Development & Civil      ECSSD
Claudia M. Pardinas Ocana Sr Counsel                         LEGEM
Katerina Petrina          Sr Social Protection Specialis     ECSHD
Peter Ivanov Pojarski     Senior Operations Officer          ECSHD
Petra Valastinova         Operations Analyst                 ECCSK
Maria V. Vannari          Sr Procurement Spec.                ECSPS
Iwona Warzecha            Sr Financial Management Specia      ECSPS
Anna L Wielogorska        Sr Procurement Spec.                ECSPS
Hermann A. von Gersdorff  Sector Leader                      LCSHD
Hiran Herat               Consultant                          ECSPF
Maria Gracheva            Operations Officer                 ECSHD
Michal Rutkowski          Sector Director                    SASHD
Wayne Vroman              Consultant                          EASPR
Joseph Formoso            Lead Finance Officer               LOADM

Candy Perque Herlihy      Lead Financial Officer/Debt Capital
                          Markets & CBP                       BDM

Virginia Jackson          Consultant                         MNSHD
Suman Mehra               Advisor                            ECAVP
Csaba Feher               Financial Sector Specialist         FPDFT
Benedicta T. Oliveros-
Miranda                   Procurement Analyst                 ECSPS

Ufuk Guven                Social Protection Specialist       ECSHD




                                                                                     27

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                            0
  FY98                                                          128.90
  FY99                                                          102.57
  FY00                                 12                        65.84
  FY01                                 29                       124.04
  FY02                                 23                       102.48
  FY03                                                            1.45
  FY04                                                            0.08
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00
                        Total:         64                       525.28
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                            0.00
  FY98                                                            0.00
  FY99                                                            0.00
  FY00                                                            0.00
  FY01                                                            0.00
  FY02                                                            4.81
  FY03                                 20                       100.19
  FY04                                 20                       114.28
  FY05                                 25                       138.01
  FY06                                 12                        67.87
  FY07                                 25                       101.90
  FY08                                 11                        47.20
                        Total:        113                       574.26




                                                                              28

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not Applicable




                                       29

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not Applicable




                                                    30

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




        SPRÁVA O UKONCENÍ IMPLEMENTÁCIE PROJEKTU

       - PROJEKT SPRÁVY REFORMY SOCIÁLNYCH DÁVOK

 kofinancovaného z úveru poskytnutého Slovenskej republike v sume

                                     5.035.635 EUR

             - podklady k správe, pripravené z pohadu dlzníka



  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

         ON A LOAN IBRD-7098SK in amount of 5.035.635 EUR

  - SOCIAL BENEFITS REFORM ADMINISTRATION PROJECT

                 - Report prepared from the Borrower's Part




Draft report ­ background materials for the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Family of the
                                       Slovak Republic
                             and the Social Insurance Agency

                                         4 April 2008




                                                                                              31

        Original Project Development Objective

The primary objective of the Social Benefits Reform Administration Project was the
support for the Government´ s plans for the pension reform by improving the political
framework and the social security system's management.               Firstly, the overriding
objective of the project was ho assist in drawing up the plan of the proposed pension
reform which the Government worked on. Secondly, the introduction of individualised
client database should provide administrative foundations for the multi-pillar pension
system proposed. The new system of collection should provide input data for individual
accounts /records, reduce tax evasions and motivate for participation in the designed
two-pillar pensions system. Improved efficiency was also anticipated as the result of the
combined collection through the SIA and NLO. Improved administration was to bring
about better services for the clients (both benefits recipients and contributions payers) and
improved image of the social insurance policy. Finally, last        objective was to reduce
disinterest and fraudulent claims against the benefits system through the analysis of the
integrated data on all social benefits and social insurance.

The Social Benefits Reform Administration Project was to address a number of issues
relating to pensions, employment programmes and social support. Its main objectives
included (i)supporting the development of a three-tier pension system;(ii)improving
records keeping for the purposes of pensions, consistently with the development of
market economy; (iii)increasing fiscal effectiveness, thereby reducing the Pension Fund's
deficit; and (iv)improving the targeting of social support.

        Revised Project Components


In the course of the Project, its components have not been revised but as the result of the
withdrawal of the SIA         from the Project implementation the planned parts of
Component 2 (the development of a system of joint social contributions collection)
and Component 3 (the development of the central clients database and the
supporting information systems) have not been implemented. These originally
planned activities were either partially financed outside the World Bank Project, or
have not been undertaken at all.


       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - GENERAL INFORMATION

1.    Important changes from the perspective of the Project beneficiaries
As of 1 January 2004 the NLO had been cancelled, with the Central Office of Labour,
Social Affairs and Family becoming its successor organisation ­ "COLSAF"). The funds
reallocations from the NLO to the MOLSAF SR were legislatively treated through the
Addendum to the Loan Agreement, of 6 October 2005.

After SIA backed out of the project implementation in February 2006, MOLSAF SR
remained the sole beneficiary of the loan.




                                                                                          32

2.    Political changes

After the parliamentary election in June 2006, a new Government was appointed in July
2006. The new Government announced changes in the state social policy oriented at the
standard social policy in the European Union.


3.    The Project management

The Project was implemented in the course of five years. It was to be implemented by
three organisations: the MOLSAF SR, the SIA and the NLO .
The MOLSAF SR had the overall responsibility for the Project, in which the Project
Coordination Unit was set up (PKJ / PCU). In addition, the participating institutions
were to set up smaller Project Management Units (PMU), which were expected to be
responsible for technical supervision over the implementation of planned activities. In
reality during the Project implementation the originally planned "project management
units" were replaced by expert working groups for the relevant specialised activities.

The Steering Committee composed of representatives of the participating beneficiary
institutions, MF SR and PCU was responsible for conceptual supervision and technical
management of the Project as a whole. The Steering Committee was chaired by the
Minister of Labour, Social Affairs and Family.




                                                                                      33

3.1. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU)

Based on the Resolution of the Government of the SR No. 328, of 11 April 2001, the
Project Coordination Unit for SBRA was constituted with effect from 16 May 2001
organisationally incorporated in the structure of the MOLSAF SR as a unit directly
managed by the Minister who was the Project guarantor. PCU was responsible for
planning, coordination and     monitoring of all activities financed under the Project,
procurement and compliance with procurement procedures in accordance with           the
procedures of the World Bank, financial management and monitoring of expenditures
and costs of the project (including co-financing).
On the basis of the Loan Agreement LA7271 for the project Technická podpora rozvoja
udského kapitálu (Human Capital Technical Assistance-HCTA, with the implementation
from   4 April 2006 ­ 30 June 2008), PCU ensured the functions of procurement and
financial management also for that project.
From 2002, when the PCU had 7 workers (director, assistant, 3 procurement managers
­ for each participating institutions: MOLSAF, NLO, SIA, 2 financial managers: from
MOLSA and SIA), the number was cut after MOLSAF staff left in 2003 to 4 workers
(director and procurement specialist ­ consultants working on the basis of contracts
funded from the Project funds - on the basis of the recommendation and approval of the
Bank, and a procurement manager and financial manager ­ employees of the SIA).
After termination of the contract of the PCU director on 19 May 2006, and following
personal changes on the part of SIA, the PCU had only two workers in 2006 - a specialist
for procurement ­ head of PCU ad interim, and a financial manager.
In November 2006 also the Secretariat of HCTA project had been incorporated into the
PCU whereby a uniform coordination was ensured for both World Bank projects
implemented, and the total number of PCU staff rose to four.
In 2007, PCU worked in the following composition: PCU director and SBRA project
coordinator, HCTA project coordinator (for the Ministry of Education of the SR and
MOLSAF SR), project manager assistant, consultant for procurement and financial
manager. MOLSAF SR terminated the contract of the PCU director at 28 September
2007, and charged the specialist for procurement for WB projects with the management
of the PCU.




                                                                                    34

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT - ACTIVITIES BY COMPONENT:

Component 1 : Institutional capacity strengthening
In order to achieve the first objective        - assistance with the development and
implementation of pension reform - in the years 2003 ­ 5, a team of foreign and local
individual consultants and consulting companies was used. Consultants contributed to the
preparation of laws related to pension reform (Act No. 461/2003 Coll. on social insurance
and the Act No. 43/2004 Coll. on old-age pension saving), sub-law norms (ordinances)
and other directives and guidelines laying down the details of the new pension system
and to the preparation of the effective information system for the contributions collection
and benefits distribution.
An extensive national information campaign on the pension reform, implemented in
October 2004 ­ May 200,5 was another major activity for which project resources were
used. Public opinion surveys and the related PR activities were contracted, such as
activities for communication campaign in support of the legislative process,            PR
campaign on the new social policy, the phone call-centre and a special TV program
covering pension reform.
A total of 1.559 million savers have joined the second pension pillar (the figure as of
January 2008). The resulting figure of savers has by far exceeded the all original
expectations of the MOLSAF. Such a result can to a large extent be attributed to
unbalanced information of advantages of the new pension system architecture and the
risk relating particularly to pension saving and annuitisation of these savings. The lack
of balance of this information was also reflected in the specialised brochures produced in
this respect by local consultants of the MOLSAF in the area of PR.
After the approval of the amendment of the Act on social insurance in April 2006,
MOLSAF decided to restart the public information activities. In May ­ June 2006 PR
activities were prepared for the public information campaign on changes in the pension
system and the project funds were used to purchase media space in press and radio.
Other funds for consultants' services and training that were drawn from the project in
2003-2007 were used for the NLO to develop the IT Master Plan, for MOLSAF SR for
expert study tours for members of the Parliament to Chile, for high-level state officials
abroad (Chile, the United States, and France), for special conferences on pensions and
social insurance, and for the support of the loan management ­ project audit,
translation services and PCU management, PCU staff training.

Component 2: Joint social contributions collection system: see below

Component 3: The development of the central clients database and the supporting
information systems

In consequence of the withdrawal of the SIA from the Project implementation the
planned parts of Component 2 (the development of a system of joint social contributions
collection) and Component 3 (the development of the central clients database and the
supporting    information systems) have not been implemented. These originally
planned activities were either partially financed outside the World Bank Project, or
have not been undertaken at all.
The following deliveries of goods have been implemented under the Project:
operational and information system for COLSAF (hardware and software, in December




                                                                                        35

2004), access to the electronic database of social policy documents for the MOLSAF and
office equipment and supplies for the Project Coordination Unit.

Despite the fact that in the years        2005-2007 documentations were prepared for
international bidding procedures for the development and installation of information
centres for employment         services   and for applied software equipment of these
information systems, those selection procedures were not implemented          owing to the
decisions of the beneficiary institutions on changes of ways of funding or procurement
(in 2005-6: the Social Insurance Agency backing out of the project and funding of
activities outside the WB Project funds, in 2007: dropping the planned sub-components
of the information technologies of MOLSAF and COLSAF, with the decision to finance
the activities at hand from other sources, e.g. the Structural Funds of the EU).

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT - ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
OBJECTIVES

The pension reform concept and implementation

At the time of introducing fully funded component (Pillar II) the need for pension reform
in Slovakia was subjectively justified as a consequence of the anticipated demographic
development and the development in the financial balance of the PAYG pension system.
Discussions in 2002 - 2003 about the future of the pension system in Slovakia were
unequivocally leading to the conclusion to develop a multi-pillar pension system based
on capitalization. Along with absence of considerations of other alternatives those
discussions were characterised by unbalanced argumentation, almost completely void of
any critical evaluation of also negative experience of other states that were changing their
pension systems in a similar way.

After initial financial analyses have been conducted, an essential structural change was
made to the pension system from 1 January 2004 by the Act No. 461/2003 Coll. on
social insurance, consisting in the shift from the so-called security system to the
insurance system. In the pay-as-you-go pillar (Pillar I of the pension system) the merit
principle got strengthened with a view to attaining closer relation between the amount of
insurance contributions paid and the pension benefit awarded. Inadequate account taken
of social and economic effects on the population was later the reason for substantial
extension of the period during which strengthening of the merit principle is phased in the
PAYG system at the expense of the solidarity of the upper-income groups with those of
the lower-income groups.

Simultaneously, from 1 January 2005, through the Act No. 43/2004 Coll on old-age
pension saving and on amending of certain acts, a new defined contribution old-age
pension saving pillar was put in place (so-called Pillar II). Thus the pension system of
the Slovak Republic is currently based on three pillars:
Pillar I - mandatory pension insurance, defined benefit, PAYG-financed, administered
by the Social Insurance Agency on the basis of the Act No. 461/2003 Coll. on social
insurance, as amended, with effect from 2 January 2004;




                                                                                         36

 Pillar II ­ old-age pension saving, defined contribution, fully funded, administered by
 the Pension administrator companies on the basis of the Act No. 43/2004 Coll. on old-
 age pension saving and on amending of certain acts, as amended, with effect from 1
 January 2005;
 Pillar III ­ voluntary supplementary pension saving, defined contribution, fully
 funded, administered by the supplementary pension companies on the basis of the Act
 No. 650/2004 Coll. on supplementary pension saving and on amending of certain acts, as
 amended, made a tax incentive with effect from 1 January 2005.

 Contribution of the pension reform to the long-term financial stability of the SR pension
 system

 The introduction of the two-pillar architecture of the pension system has financial
 implications for its PAYG component.                One impact, unfavourable for its financial
 balance, is the constant outflow of contributions into the second pillar.                      It may be
 expected that from a long-term perspective the introduction of the two-pillar architecture
 may become roughly financially neutral.                   However, the effect of the two-pillar
 architecture may be positive, in case the average relative level of old-age pensions
 awarded from the two-pillar architecture is higher than that under purely PAYG pension
 system.
 The need for the pension reform and the long-term contribution of the introduction of the
 second fully-funded pillar were to be confirmed also by the modelling calculations of the
 Financial Policy Institute at the Ministry of finance of the SR. Those calculations were
 corrected and modified recently though.

 Table 1 Pension revenues and expenditures (as % of GDP)
Pensions                               2004              2020               2055          Change 2004 - 2055
- Without reform                        7.6               9.0                14.1                6.5
- Pillar I only                         7.2               5.9                10.8                3.6
- With Pillar II as well                7.2               5.3                7.6                 0.4
- Gap in revenues                       0.0               1.8                2.1                 2.1
                                                                      Source: Financial Policy Institute9

 From sustainability perspective, the pension reform forecasting shows that without
 reform (i.e. also without any further parametric changes in the PAYG system), the
 expenditures on pensions would increase by as much as 6.5% of GDP by 2055. After the
 reform and the introduction of the second pillar, public expenditures on pensions will
 increase (without second pillar) only 0.4% of GDP by 2055, compared with the current
 situation. This however only in case that, in the long-term, there will also be a decrease in
 the level of pension benefits paid.

 With the Pillar II rate (of 9 %), the year 2037 will be a turning point. In the period of
 2005 - 2037 the one-pillar architecture is better than that of the two pillars, in the period
 of 2038 ­ 2085 the situation is reversed: the two-pillar architecture provides smaller

 9"Long-term sustainability of public finance as the principal fiscal policy objective"; source:
 http://www.finance.gov.sk/Default.aspx?CatID=4760 Source: MOLSAF SR forecast




                                                                                                         37

deficits. The limit of this claim however is the highly optimistic set-up of the capital and
financial market yields.

      Table 2 Summary deficit of the pension system (in % /GDP)
                                                 2005 - 2037   2038 - 2085   2005 - 2085
      One-pillar                                     42            120           162
      Two-pillar                                     64            87            151

The financial resources comprising 22 % of GDP (22 = 64 ­ 42) may be regarded as the
transformation costs of the introduction of the two-pillar architecture, with the rate of 9
%. The financial resources comprising 33 % of GDP (33 = 120 - 87) can be regarded as
contribution of the introduction of the two-pillar architecture at rate of 9 %.

Development in certain project's performance indicators

In addition to the activities in the area of pension insurance, the Social Insurance Agency
(SIA) as a public-law institution responsible for the administration of social
insurance discharges a number of other tasks. Its competencies also include the
collection and payment of sickness and injury insurance benefits, and, from 1 January
2004, also the agenda of unemployment and guarantee insurance.

An efficient system of information technologies within the Social Insurance Agency is a
prerequisite for successful delivery of these activities which simultaneously will permit
electronic communication with clients. In the period between 1995 to 2005, the Social
Insurance Agency           invested almost SKK 3 billion (circa 89 mil. EUR) in its
information system.

Despite the cost and efforts effected, the Social Insurance Agency has still not reached
having a comprehensive interlinked information system.

The overview of the success rate in collection              for current calendar years (actual
contributions collected to statutorily written contributions) is one of the most significant
evolution indicators of the functioning the SIA organisation but also of the readiness of
the insured to pay contributions to the social insurance system, which is given in the
following table:


Table 3
 Year           1997     1998   1999     2000     2001    2002  2003    2004   2005    2006  2007
 Success rate
 of collection  92%      91%    90%      93%      94%     94%    95%    94%    94%     95%   96%

Source: Social Insurance Agency

In the 2008 budget the Social Insurance Agency assumes a 96% success rate, the outlook
for 2009-2011 assumes 97 % success rate for 2009 and 97.5 % for 2010 and 2011,
respectively. The cited percentages can be thought positive under given institutional and
legislative conditions.




                                                                                           38

Solution of tasks that should have been implemented under the projects funded
from the World Bank loan and the arrangements for their provision in the Social
Insurance Agency

In consequence of the withdrawal of the SIA from the Project implementation the
planned parts of Component 2 (the development of a system of joint collection of
insurance contributions) and Component 3 (the development of the central clients
database and the supporting information systems) have not been implemented. These
originally planned activities were financed only partially and were implemented
outside the WB Project.

Within the provision for collection of insurance contributions the Social Insurance
Agency (SIA) implemented and made operational, as of 1 January 2004, the following
information system for the support of the application of the new act on social insurance:


        -   Information system of Electronic Data Collection (IS EDC).

For the purposes of the implementation of the Act on old-age pension saving the
information system of old-age pension saving was subsequently put into operation, at 1
January 2005, (IS OPS). It must be stressed that launching of these information systems,
as of 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2005, respectively, was inevitable from the aspect of
securing the new activities as defined by the acts on social insurance and on old-age
pension saving.

            Framework characteristics of particular systems are as follows:

      1. The Information System of the Joint Contributions Collection - IS JCC ­
        implementation started prior to the World Bank project


Contributions collection is the key task of SIA being responsible for replenishment of the
revenue side of the budget which is the necessary prerequisite for the discharge of the
other tasks in the system of social insurance (payment of benefits, passing on
contributions for old-age pension insurance). The implemented centralised JCC system
secures the receipt, identification, pairing off and payment accounting into particular SIA
Funds, in accordance with the wording of the Act on social insurance. The data from
insurance contribution payers on individual payments in respect of individual payers
(circa 2.0 mil. employees, 255 thousand self-employed persons, 170 thousand state
insured persons, 22 thousand DPO and 230 thousand jobseekers) are monthly recorded
and processed. Identification of payments is implemented and they are paired off with the
written insurance contributions. IS JCC provides information support for the following
range of activities: (i) registration of the employer, natural person, correction of the data
in the Register, (ii) processing of registration sheets, (iii) filing of reference materials for
written contributions: monthly statement, extract from the tax return, DPO, writing,
reference materials of state writings, (iv) generation of written contributions to account
file //list of balances, (v) records of elimination and suspension of insurance, (vi)
processing of bank statements, VAKUP, cash payments,(vii) export of payments to other



                                                                                             39

systems, (viii)end period balance sheet, (ix) keeping of the individual account of the
insured, (x) keeping of the account file of the payer, (xi) creation of calls to pay insurance
contributions, creation of notifications of the duty to submit the monthly insurance
contribution statement, tax return, creation of calls to give precision to the identificator ­
state entity, (xii) issue of decisions for outstanding amounts of insurance contributions,
penalties, (xiii) conduct of physical inspection (planning, record keeping, updating), (xiv)
execution of concurrence checks (e.g. self-employed person ­ employee),(xv)keeping
files of and administering receivables.

Apart from the above we need to emphasize that the IS JCC currently also plays the role
of the main information (data) gateway to the SIA in relation to the insured and the
insurance contributions payers that is further used within the production systems in
decision making on benefit claims and benefit amounts (data integration). In this
respect an internal project of data consolidation is under way in SIA focused on "final
inquiry and control" of data by means of user functions and activities so as to be able to
keep the data fully consistent, complete and accurate.

From the SIA´ s perspective the operated IS JCC ensures support for the performance of
the following primary processes of the contribution collection, in particular: (i) receipt,
identification, pairing off and accounting of payments into particular SIA funds, in
accordance with the Social Insurance Act, (ii) monthly records and processing of data
from insurance contribution payers about individual contribution payments in respect of
particular insured persons and employees of the social contribution payer, (iii) records
and processing of written contribution (monthly statements and tax statements) for
insurance contribution payers and individually insured persons, (iv) administration of
receivables, issuance of decisions, control activity, etc.(v) filing and administration of
registers of the insured persons and insurance contribution payers, (vi) filing and
administration of the data of the "credit" side of the individual client's account, (vii)
based on the data processed in IS JCC, particular employers are informed on:
contribution payments effected ,potential arrears, receivables, etc., the issuance of
certificates of compliance of entities with payment of their levies to SIA.


    2. Information System of the Electronic Data Collection - IS EDC


IS EDC fulfils the function of the electronic filing room of monthly insurance
contribution statements and registration sheets of natural persons. The system is designed
as an internet/intranet portal providing secured interface for the data input received from
insurance contribution payers directly in the electronic form (electronic communication).
The data is checked for completeness and accuracy, in terms of the defined criteria
(calculated amounts of levies for individual Funds, assessment bases, control amounts of
the monthly statement and annexes). External access from the Internet is set up on the
basis of the conditions defined by the Social Insurance Agency and accepted by the
insurance contributions payer. Currently this system is used by circa 55,000 entities and
more than 96 % of data is received in this way from monthly insurance contributions




                                                                                           40

statements and their annexes (data on assessment bases and transfers made in respect of
around 1.9 mil. employees), and more than 200 thousand electronic registration sheets.
Overviews and statistical compilations are also part of the system that are created for the
comprehensive database, comprising information from all monthly received and
processed statements and registrations sheets.     The system deals in an automated way
with gathering of the data, or integrates the data from individual specific subsystems for
electronic and manual data entry on: (i) individual payments of contributions of the
insured and their periods of insurance in the structure defined in the insurance
contribution statement, including its annex, (ii) identification data of the insured in the
structure defined by the registration sheet.


    3. Information system of the old-age pension saving - IS OPS

The system provides automated registration and filing of contracts for old-age pension
saving, statements of savers not to participate in old-age pension saving, notification of
the saver to participate in the old-age pension saving, calculation and passing on of
contributions to the relevant pension administrator companies to the savers´ individual
accounts. The Register of Savers and Old-age Pension Saving Contracts is a component
part of the system. These activities (contracts registration and contributions generation)
are fully automated, without any need for the user intervention. Users intervene in the
process of passing on contributions only in generating orders of payment and money
transfer orders to the accounts of Pension Funds of the relevant pension administrator
companies through the State Treasury.        The external part of the application is used
through the access via single portal solution EZU for the purpose of electronic
communication with pension administrator companies and the National Bank of
Slovakia. The "browsing" functions for the needs of internal or external checks allow
browsing through the Register of Savers and Contracts, contributions passed on,
penalties, etc.

Currently IS OPS solves, in a comprehensive way, the issues of the calculation of
contributions and processes all data available on payments effected in relation to monthly
statements or written contributions. Further improvement of the process of calculation of
contributions therefore depends mainly on the improvement of the data quality
(completeness and correctness), the data stated by employers in their registration sheets,
or monthly statements. To this effect SIA continues stepping up intensity of
communication of its branch offices with insurance contribution payers and insists on the
requirement of providing correct and prompt data in the electronic form (this duty is
currently applicable to employers with more than nine employees).

Component C 2:         Client Database and Information Systems for Social Sector
Programmes - development and implementation of the automated systems and
infrastructure for the delivery of services by the Social Insurance Agency

Within the system of IS JCC the Social Insurance Agency keeps a Register of the
Insured and of the Insurance Contribution Payers and, within the system of IS OPS,
a Register of Savers.        The systems´ data is interlinked (integrated) though the
implemented automated interfaces. The above systems also serve as data sources for (i)


                                                                                        41

the systems ensuring payment of social insurance benefits, (ii) the systems of social
security operated by the Central Office of Labour, Social Affairs and Family.

The increasing of automation and a more effective provision for the integration of other
benefits systems in the source identification data of natural persons, filed within the IS
JCC and IS OPS, is the subject of the Data Integration Project, which is gradually being
implemented in the SIA. The project of the implementation of the integration platform
will gradually permit to define a set of rules for filing and executing of changes to the
basic SIA client identification data in relevant information systems whereby a single
integrated basic registration database will be created (Virtual Central Register). Currently
this solution is implemented in part within the information system of the sickness
insurance and the medical expert assessment activities.

Component 3 : The development of the central clients database and the supporting
information systems

This part of the project has not been implemented at all, not even from other
resources The central clients database has not been              developed     yet and the
supporting modelling systems have not been developed either.

CONCLUSIONS

From the position of the Borrower the project can be deemed to be partly satisfactorily
implemented.

Essentially there are two reasons for such an assertion: (i) the failure to attain all of the
objectives of the project and (ii) the resulting set-up of the two-pillar pension system
which entails disproportionately high pressure on the financial balance of the Social
Insurance Agency and hence also on the whole array of public finance. In our view, the
conceptual and strategic works in designing the new structure of the pension system
should have included as integral part consistent mapping and naming of the financial
risks of the construction, as well as the provision for their coverage. The actual number
of savers having entered the two-pillar pensions system is considerably higher than
MOLSAF and its consultants anticipated but within their activities at the Ministry the
options have not been addressed at all of how to tackle the resulting situation.

The assessment of the action of the World Bank team

The action of the World Bank team assigned to the project may be regarded as active.
However a certain "isolation" in the issue of the latest development trends in the social
sphere in other economically advanced countries of the European Union can be regarded
as a weakness of their activity. The failure to respect these trends results in designing
pension systems whose structures are not compatible within the EU and, which for
example, to a significant extent make the issues of transfer of pension entitlements arising
from free movement of workers on the European labour market complicated.




                                                                                          42

 COMMENTS OF MINISTRY OF LABOUR, SOCIAL AFFAIRS AND FAMILY
                             OF THE SLOVAC REPUBLIC
  ON IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS FOR THE SOCIAL
                BENEFITS REFORM ADMINISTRATION PROJECT


Generally

Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Family of the SR (MOLSAF) does not agree with
arguments of the World Bank that are mentioned in the report (for instance "...revenues
are unlikely to rise significantly to the public first pillar ­ which was one of the primary
motivations of the recent amendments...",          "...recent amendments to the pension
legislation put sustainability of this PDO at risk...", "The sustainability of the reform is
now at risk with the recent amendments introduced to the design of the second pillar...",
etc.") about last changes in the second pillar (specifically opening of the old-age pensions
saving system for six months until June 30th 2008) adopted by the Government of the
Slovak Republic and also by the Parliament of the Slovak Republic in 2007. MOLSAF
also does not agree with the author's opinion about failure of expectations for pension
reform, generally speaking. Pension reform was new concept for Slovak Republic and
therefore it is not reasonable to expect the non change of rules set at the beginning of the
reform. During the implementation of this reform arose situations which the author's
could not expect so they did not take them into account. Afterwards these situations
amendments of law concerning Slovak pension reform were and are still changed and
corrected. Concerning the opening of the second pillar for six months in 2008 the main
reason was to provide people more objective information about second pillar (their
advantageous and disadvantageous) and to solve the situation of savers for whose the
second pillar is not profitable. From January 1st 2008 new entrants can voluntarily decide
whether to stay only in first pillar or enter the second pillar. MOLSAF does not agree
with the author's argument that today's new entrants are being pushed into the public
system.

It seems to us that the report is more concerned on material assessment of the pension
reform than the assessment of the whole project. In our opinion some conclusions have in
the report tendentious character.

We would like to point out that the World Bank has not used basic documents prepared
and provided by MOLSAF and Social Insurance Agency (SIA) for the social benefits
reform administration project. Documents that we have prepared in cooperation with SIA
are only mentioned at the end of the report in annex.

In our opinion positive effect of implementation of multi-pillar pension system
mentioned in the submitted report is overestimated and the focus is on second pillar
without supporting these arguments with objective and verified case study.



                                                                                         43

We would like to point out that the Christmas bonus for some pensioners (pensioners
that receive old age pension, early old age pension, disability pension and social pension)
is a state social benefit that is provided to the pensioners whose pension is low to improve
their social situation. Mention benefit is not a component of their pension and is paid by
SIA from the resources that they receive from the state budget; it means that the
Christmas bonus has no influence on SIA budget. As stated above we do not agree with
argument mentioned in the report, that the Christmas bonus can jeopardize the
sustainability of the public pension scheme.

Voluntary privately managed third pillar was launched in 1996 (July 1st 1996) and in
2005 the third pillar was transformed by previous government (in our opinion this
transformation was not lucky). As stated above we would like to stress that voluntary
privately managed third pillar was not introduce in 2005.


Specifically

Comments mentioned in remark number 1 about National Labour Office (NLO) ("NLO
was abolished and functions transferred to MOLSAF after effectiveness.") are not
accurate because from this statement is not obvious that collection of unemployment
insurance and taking decision about confessing unemployment benefit and also their pay
out were transferred to SIA.

Indicator No.3 Predictability improved as measured by budgeted/actual revenues we do
not agree with the last sentence ("The values indicate that the capacity of the SIA to
predict revenues actually deteriorated during the time of the project") because the
assumption of future revenues made by SIA are the most harmed by many legislation
changes (24 amendments of Act on Social Insurance in period 2003-2007 were adopted)
not limited experience of budgetary team of the SIA. The World Bank also negatively
evaluate the result for this indicator achieved by SIA in 2007 (110%), the question is
whether mentioned indicator was determined correctly.

Indicator No.6 Client services improved measured by increases in number of inquiries
received and answered in context with this indicator MOLSAF has provided information
about number of inquiries received and answered by SIA on September 12th 2008. We
would like to suggest to update the report or the statement in indicator 6 ("The ICR team
was informed by the MOLSAF that SIA does not monitor the number of inquiries
received and answered and hence the information is not available") and incorporate
information that we have sent to the World Bank.

Indicator No.3 Individual Contribution Records maintained ­ in the comments provided
by the World Bank to this indicator is mentioned that SIA did not agree for a technical
audit on the individual accounts. It is really difficult for SIA to express their opinion
because nobody in SIA knows anything about this request from the World Bank. It is also
not obvious why technical audit should be provided in SIA when financial resources used



                                                                                         44

for financing individual contribution record were from SIA and not from the Social
benefits reform administration project.

Comments to Indicator No.5 ("...by the Slovak Government to unify the collection of
taxes and social contributions.") and the same statement on page 11 (marked on the
bottom of document) we suggest to replace the word term ,,unify tax, customs and social
insurance contributions" by term ,,unify taxes, customs, contributions on social and
health insurance". Explanatory note for this change is fully respect public insurance
system of Slovakia, where health insurance is separated of social insurance and
responsible institution for this issue is Ministry of Health of the SR (for collection of
contributions are responsible health insurance companies).

On page 6 we do not agree with author's agreement that there is impasse situation in SIA.
In our opinion mentioned statement is not true and does not reflect objective state when
SIA was forced to implement law changes. Loan from the World Bank was not a goal but
a tool. SIA was an institution that were pressed upon to realize tasks of the reform with
limited own sources while procurement mechanism for drawing financial resources from
the World Bank and their use for certain tasks would not secure fulfilment of tasks
specified in law on time. This should be reflected in the report.

On page 8 comments for remark number 5 is missing.

On page 9 concerning the figures about individuals that have decided to switch back to
the first pillar are or were approximately 106 600 and individuals that have decided to
enter the second pillar were 23 000.

Remark number 6 on page 10, to be honest we do not understand following agreement
"As of end 2007, there were about 159,000 individuals above the age 45 who switched to
the second pillar." What exactly do you mean? The second pillar was opened in 2008 for
six months, not in 2007. Also until December 31st 2007 approximately 185 000
individuals were above the age 45 or approximately 229 000 individuals were above the
age 45 (including the age 45). As stated above we suggest to update the figures
mentioned on page 10 in the remark 6.

We only partially agree with statement on page 16 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and
Social Development "Therefore, a multi-pillar pension system supported by the SBRAP
system in Slovakia is expected to diversify retirement income and, therefore, better serve
the poverty alleviation objective of a pension system and hence contribute to poverty
reduction". We agree with first part of sentence that multi-pillar system could distribute
the risk between demography and macro economy (1st pillar) and financial market (2nd
pillar), but we disagree with idea that second pillar which was established and operated in
accordance with 100 % principle of merit could protect low earners against poverty in
pension age.




                                                                                        45

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                                                    46

    Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. The PHRD Grant Agreement. 1993.
2. Country Assistance strategy for the Slovak Republic. 2001. The World Bank.
3. The Implementation Completion Report on the PHRD Grant. 2002. The World
    Bank.
4. Project Appraisal Document. 2002.
5. Loan Agreement and Supplemental Letter. 2002.
6. Implementation Status Reports
7. Project Aide Memoires
8. Country Partnership Strategy for the Slovak Republic. 2004. The World Bank.
9. Slovak Republic: Pension Policy Reform Note. The World Bank, 2004
10. Background Paper on Pension for Slovak Republic Public Expenditure
    Review, 2008
11. Guven, U. 2008. Adequacy of Retirement Income after Pension Reforms in
    Central, Eastern and Southern Europe: Slovakia.August. mimeo
12. Borrower's Project Completion Report. 2008.




                                                                            47

MAP (IBRD 33480)




                    48

                             17°E                                     18°E                                  19°E                                   20°E                                            21°E                                   22°E                         23°E

              50°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50°N




                                                                                                                                                                                             P O L A N D
                              SLOVAK                                                          To
                                                                                              To
                              REPUBLIC                                                     Cesky Tesin
                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                        To                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                       Rabka                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Nowy Sacz                                       Krosno


                                                                                To
                                                                                To              Cadca                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                              Prerov                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                      To                                     Krynica                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                        Kysucke             Tvrdosin              Zakopane                     Stara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Svidnik                   Sanok
                                                     CZECH                                              Nove Mesto                                                          L''bovna
                                                                                                                                                                              bovna

                                                                         To
                                                                         To                                                                                 Gerlachovsky                          L''ubotin
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ubotin        Bardejov   Medziaborce
                                                         REP.           Zlin           Bytca          Zilina Z I L I N S K Y                                Stit (2655 m)
                                                                                                                     Kral'ovany
                                                                                                                     Kral'ovany        Bystra
                                                                              Puchov                                                                                        Kezmarok
                                                                                          Povazska                          Vah      (2250 m)               Tatry                                     P R E S O V S K Y                    Carpathian
                                                                                          Bystrica                                              Vy s o k e                                   Spisske                                                    M t s .
              49°N                                                                                           Martin        Ruzomberok                 Vazek           Poprad                 Podhradie                                        Snina                    49°N
                                                  To
                                                  To              KarpaTrencin
                                                                         ty                                                                                                                                          Presov        Humenne
                                            Uherske Hradiste                                                                                                                                 Torysa                                                   Ubl'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ubl'a
                           To
                           To                                                                 Turcianske       Korytnica                                                 Spisska
                                                                                                                                                                                        Margecany
                          Brno                                                                                                                                        Nova Ves es
                            Morava                          Bile                                  Teplice
                                                                T R E N C I A N S K Y                                  Nizke    Tatry on Hr                                                                                  Vranov

                                                                  Nove Mesto          Prievidza                                  Brezno                                         Smolnik                                                     Michalovce

                                                                                                                     Banska                                                                                           Kosice
                                Kuty         Senica
                                                                           Partizanske                                                                              Roznava                 Moldova                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                         Ziar nad    Bystrica              Tisovec
                                                                                                                                                                                       nad Bodvou             K O S I C K Y           Trebisov            Mukachevo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UKRAINE
                               Malacky   Male                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                       To                                           Slovenske             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                              Hlohovec                               Zarnovica                                                                  Kazincbarcika                                       Nove Mesto         Mukachevo
                            B R AT I -                                           Zlate                                                                  Rimavska
                                             Trnava                          Moravce          Hron                                                      Sobota                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                         S L AV S K Y                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                        Pezinok TKRNAVSKY
                                                  arpaty           Topol'cany
                                                                    opol'cany                            Hronom      Zvolen

                                                                                                            B A N S K O B Y S T R I C K Y                             Slana


                                                               Vah                                                Krupina                                                                                     Miskolc          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                            Nitra                                               Lucenec
                                                                                             Kozarovce                                                                                                                     Sarospatak
                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                             To                                                           Cigand
                                                                     N I T R I A N S K Y                                                                                    Miskolc

                                                                   Sal'a
                                                                   Sal'a                      Levice
              AUSTRIA   To
                        To        BRATISLAVA                                                                            Ipel
                      Vienna                         Dunajska                                         Sahy                               To
                                                                                                                                         To
              48°N                                                                   Zeliezovce                                                                                                                                                                        48°N
                                       Danube        Streda                                                                            Budapest
                                                                Nove Zamky
                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                Budapest
                                   To
                                   To                          Kolarovo
                                 Kapuvar
                                                                    Komarno               Sturovo                                                                                                                           SLOVAK REPUBLIC
                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                              To
                                                  To
                                                  To                                                          Vac
                                                                                                              Vac
                                                 Gyor              To
                                                                   To
                                                                  Gyor      To
                                                                            To
                                                                        Tatabanya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                     H U N G A R Y                                                                                                       REGION (KRAJ) CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS

                                        0          20          40        60 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                   MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                         RAILROADS                         IBRD
                                        0                  20              40 Miles                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                        REGION (KRAJ) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
              47°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             33480
        2004                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                       17°E                                       18°E                                      19°E                                     20°E                                               21°E

