Document of
FILE Cupv  The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2323-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
TENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 8, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =          Rupiah (Rp)
US$1                =         Rp 415
Rp 100              =         US$0.241
Rp 1 million        =         US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)             =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                   =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq m)    =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                =  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)          =  35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCN) =  811 acre feet
1 liter (1)                   =  0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)        =  0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)               =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)            =  2,205 pounds
CONVERSION FACTOR FOR RICE
1 ton paddy                   =  630 kg milled rice
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB           -  Asian Development Bank
BIMAS         -  Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan
"Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs"
a farm input-credit package program
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BULOG/DOLOG   -  Badan Urusan Logistik - "National Logistics Body"
- rice procurement agency/Depo Logistik - provincial
branch of BULOG
BUUD          -  Bahan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village
Unit Cooperative
DGWRD         -  Director(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
DIP           -  Project implementation budget
DOI           -  Directorate of Irrigation
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
HYV           -  High.-Yielding Variety
INMAS         -  Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification"
- a farm input program
INPRES        -  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a rural public works program
IPEDA         -  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
KUD           -  Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
MOA            - Mini.stry of Agriculture
NFCE          -  National Food Crop Extention Project
O&M           -  Operation and maintenance
PIBD          -  Badan Pelaksana Proyek Induk Irigasi dengan bantuan
Bank Dunia, "Executive Body for Major Irrigation Project;
w-ith World Bank Assistance."
PROSIDA       -  Proyek Irigasi IDA - Agency of DGWRD created to exe!cut,
I)A-assisted projects
REC           -  Rural Extension Center
GLOSSARY
Golongan      -  Rotational system of irrigation
Gotong Royong - Cooperative effort by villagers
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
TENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                      $140.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                       Twenty years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 7.5% per annum.
Project Description:         The proposed project would assist the Government's
program to rehabilitate, upgrade and expand its
existing irrigation systems, in order to increase
food production. The project would also help to
strengthen the ability of the Directorate-General
of Water Resources Development to plan and
execute a large program of works. The project
consists of three construction components: Kali
Progo (34,700 ha); Way Seputih (25,000 ha); and
Way Sekampung (to be expanded from 32,400 ha to
65,100 ha) and an Investigations and Designs
component, consisting of feasibility studies and
detailed design work for a number of dams. Two of
these dams are critical to the realization of
benefits from the proposed project works. Following
their construction, the project would benefit
about 189,000 families and would increase rice
production by 273,000 tons per year. Project
risks are normal for projects of this kind.
Estimated Cost:              The table below summarizes the estimated cost of the
project by components:
Local Foreign Total
---- ($ million) ----
Kali Progo                      20.5    20.1    40.6
Way Seputih                      6.1      7.4    13.5
Way Sekampung                   31.7    36.5    68.2
Investigations and Designs       2.2      6.5     8.7
Base cost                    60.5    70.5   131.0
Physical contingencies          13.7    16.1    29.8
Price contingencies             25.9    29.3    55.2
Total project cost       100.1   115.9   216.0



- ii -
Financing Plan:             The proposed loan of $140 million would cover the
full foreign exchange cost of the project and
$24.1 million of local costs. The remaining costs
($76 million) would be met by the Government.
Estimated Disbursements:  ---------          $ million ---------------
Bank FY        1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Annual:         5.0  17.0  21.0  24.0  28.0  30.0  15.0
Cumulative:    5.0  22.0  43.0  67.0  95.0 125.0 140.0
Rate of Return:             14% weighted average for the three construction
components.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 1872b-IND, dated May 1, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
TENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $140 million to help
finance a Tenth Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The last economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent Develop-
ments, Short-Term Prospects and Development Issues," of April 26, 1978
(2026-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on April 28, 1978.
3.        During Indonesiai's First Development Plan period (1969/70-
1973/74),/2 the rehabilitastion of the Indonesian economy was almost completed.
Transport, power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after
years of neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. Agricultural
output expanded at an average rate of 4.5% a year and the foundations of
modern industry - fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this period,
the annual rate of economic growth exceeded 7.5%; domestic savings and
investments also rose rapidly.
4.        With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), the Government expected that rehabilitation would be completed and
a start made on a course of long-term development which would assure not
only a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a wider distribution of
income. Progress in these respects has been mixed. While there has been
considerable further improvement in the country's physical and social
infrastructure (power, roads, telecommunications, education, family planning),
much of the Government's attention and efforts have been focused on short-
term issues, the economic growth rate has tended to slacken, and public
concern with equitable distribution of income has grown. The first two
years of the Plan were dominated by the developments in the oil sector -
the sharp increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's serious financial
/1 This part is an updated version of the one contained in the President's
Report No. P-2213-IND, dated April 24, 1978, for the Bukit Asam Coal
Mining and Transportation Engineering Project.
/2  Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.



- 2 -
difficulties. The latter arose from Pertamina's undertaking of a large and
diverse investment program without arranging satisfactory financing. Foreign
bank credit became more restrictive with the onset of world recession.
Pertamina was unable to roll over its short-term debt and failed to meet the
financial obligations which were falling due. In these circumstances, the
Government stepped in and assumed the oil company's obligations. The repay-
ment of these obligations, along with the fall in export earnings as a result
of the recession, necessitated large foreign commercial borrowing, seriously
strained the Government's budgetary resources and Indonesia's balance of
payments, and led to a sharp decline in the foreign exchange reserves.
5.        In most respects, the Government managed the Pertamina crisis
well, and the following two years (1976/77 and 1977/78) witnessed a substan-
tial improvement in the balance of payments and the Government's budgetary
position as well as a reduction in the rate of domestic inflation. During
1976/77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly (following improvements in
the world economy), and rose to a higher level than anticipated. Imports
continued to increase rapidly but the rate of increase of import prices
slowed down, and Indonesia's terms of trade improved. These trends continued
into 1977/78, and resulted in substantial additions to the foreign exchange
reserves, which have averaged over $2 billion (or about four months of
imports) in the early months of 1978.
6.        The Government's budgetary position also improved in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also exceeded the
amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of government efforts to curb smuggling
and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional revenues
together with continued restraint on current expenditures enabled the
Government not only to increase development expenditures substantially
but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, and contributed to
bringing down the inflation rate to 14% a year compared to 20% in 1975/76.
The Government budget tightened in 1977/78, since oil as well as non-oil
revenues rose more modestly while current expenditures rose more rapidly
largely due to an overdue general increase in civil servant salaries. As
a result, budgetary savings declined in real terms for the first time in
recent years. Nevertheless, through a cautious monetary policy, the
inflation rate was further reduced to about 10%.
7.        The substantial increase in oil revenues since 1974 has been
largely invested. Government development expenditures more than quadrupled
from 1973/74 to 1977/78 when they amounted to Rp 2.5 trillion (or about
$6 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation, this
represented a real increase of over 30% a year. Over this period, the rate
of gross domestic investment averaged about 22.5% of GNP. However, this
high level of investments has so far failed to increase the rate of growth
of the Indonesian economy; economic growth in the first four years of
Indonesia's Second Development Plan (1974/75-1977/78) has, in fact, been
slower than that in the First Plan period. The world recession, slackening



- 3 -
agricultural output and domestic inflation (which made some domestic industries
uncompetitive with imports), all had a dampening effect on the growth of the
economy. In addition, public investments in recent years have been concentrated
on relatively capital-intensive industrial and infrastructure projects with
long gestation periods. Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from
investments in such sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc.,
depends on the growth in demand which in turn is determined by the growth
of the rest of the economy, mainly the private sector, which has failed to
provide the necessary momentum to growth. The indications are that private
investments rose only modestly in recent years for a number of reasons,
including the Government's attempts to control domestic inflation and to
encourage indigenous (pribumi) investors, and the uncertain state of the
world economy.
8.        Between 1961 and 1971, the population of Indonesia grew by 2.1%
annually; with high fertility rates, increasing longevity and an age distri-
bution heavily weighted towards the younger groups, there was a widespread
expectation that growth would further accelerate, and reach at least 2.3% over
the 1971-1976 period. Yet the Inter-Censal Population Survey shows that the
growth rate was actually reduced to 2.0% and that Indonesia's population
stood at 130.2 million in March 1976, about 5 million less than had been
expected. Further declines in mortality may actually raise the growth rate
once again, but there is now hope that the population will reach 200 million
only at the end of the century - later than according to even the lowest
earlier projection.
9.        The most outstaLnding and encouraging feature to emerge from recent
data was a marked decline in fertility levels in Java and Bali. The total
fertility rate for Java declined from 5.5 in 1971 to 4.4 in 1976, a drop of
20%. In Bali, fertility declined even more dramatically, from 5.8 to 3.8, by
more than a third. The National Family Planning Program, which began in 1970
and enjoys strong political backing and support from major religious and other
private organizations, is believed to be an important reason for the fertility
decline. A start was recently made to extend the the services of the Program
to the other islands. Their total fertility rate was 6.8 in 1971 - well
above that of Java - and it showed no decline up to 1976. Mortality rates
also differ sharply. Life expectation in the other islands is 47 years as
against 49 years in Java.. Moreover, the gap itself appears to be widening,
although mortality rates are diminishing everywhere.
10.       Information on underemployment and wages is incomplete and not very
reliable but there are indications that the growth in opportunities for
gainful employment has about kept pace with the growth of the labor force
since 1970. Real wages do not seem to have fallen. This is encouraging,
since many of the changes that are taking place in agricultural production
and processing techniques, including improved transportation, mechanical rice
hulling, etc., are of a labor saving nature. It is evident that farming on
Java is increasingly becoming a part-time activity, that landlessness is
becoming more common and that a growing proportion of Java's rural population
is primarily or exclusively dependent on the sale of their labor to earn an



- 4 -
income. The need for greater emphasis on the promotion of labor-intensive
export industries and the development of small and medium-scale rural indus-
tries deserves high priority in the formulation of future development plans.
11.       Perhaps the most worrying development in recent years, and one with
important iong-term implications, is the slackening in the rate of growth in
agricultural production, particularly of rice. Over the 1975-77 period, rice
output failed to rise appreciably; for 1977, rice production is estimated at
15.9 million tons, about the same as the previous year, and almost 10% below the
Second Plan target for that year. The domestic price of rice has been kept
stable only by means of very substantial imports. In 1976/77 rice imports
amounted to 1.6 million tons and in 1977/78 they reached 2.6 million tons, or
over 15% of domestic consumption and 30% of total world trade in rice. The
stagnation in rice output over the last two years, while reflecting a complex
of institutional and policy constraints, is primarily the result of successive
droughts and, in Java, the wereng (brown planthopper) infestation. Long-term
expansion of food crop production and a substantial reduction in rice imports,
require prompt assessment of available land and water resources, accelerated
construction of irrigation and drainage facilities, acceleration in land
settlement and transmigration programs based on food crop production and,
most importantly, expansion and deepening of agricultural support services.
12.       The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of large foreign debt and some burdensome ongoing investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of 1976, together
with a hardening of average terms during those years, have raised the level
of debt service payments which are now expected to reach about $1.5 billion
in 1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 15% in 1976 and 16% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of the remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling $1 bil-
lion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.3 billion in 1975 to $3.2 billion in 1976 and to $1.7 billion in
1977. Most of the decline was achieved through a reduction in commercial
borrowing. This means that average loan terms have recently begun to soften
again, which will be reflected in future debt service payments.
13.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.75 billion in 1978/79, including both loans and grants.
14.       As a result of the pattern and terms of external borrowing during
the recent past, net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline
in 1978/79 to about $600 million, even if the recommended level of new ODA
commitments is reached. At: the same time, there is a growing doubt that
crude oil production can be increased much above the current level of 1.7 mil-
lion barrels a day during the next few years. Oil exploration activity in
Indonesia has remained much below the peak of 1975 partly as a result
of the renegotiation of the oil contracts in 1976 and partly on account of a
U.S. Internal Revenue Service ruling which declared the oil revenues withheld
by the Government of Indonesia as royalties rather than tax for the purpose
of allowing income tax credit to the U.S. companies operating in Indonesia.
In the meantime no large new oil fields have been discovered, and, although
the Government has now offered improved incentives to the oil companies and
revised the contracts to meet the IRS objections, it is not certain that the
exploration activity would revive soon enough to make up for the time lost.
15.       The implication of recent developments for imports, exports, net
service payments and future capital inflow requirements is currently under
study, but indications are that, while foreign exchange will be scarcer
over the coming years, Indonesia would be able to finance essential imports
of consumer, intermediate and capital goods and still meet its debt service
obligations. However, the relative decline in oil revenues will have serious
budgetary consequences. In order to maintain the relatively high rate of
domestic investment already reached, the Government would need to raise
substantial additional non-oil revenues over the coming years. The Government
has been quite cautious in increasing current expenditures and there does not
appear to be much scope for reducing them further; they should, in fact, rise
in step with the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable growth in
Government salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant part of
which is development related. Nevertheless, despite the Government's efforts
to limit current expenditures and raise domestic revenue, there is likely to
be a serious domestic resource constraint in the coming years.
16.       The Government is fully aware of the serious concerns regarding
Indonesia's future development discussed above and will make them the focus of
the Third Development Plan which is now under preparation. In the meantime
the Bank is undertaking a major review of the development problems facing
Indonesia, covering in depth such issues as domestic and foreign resource
mobilization, as well as trends and outlook for agricultural growth, popula-
tion, employment, and income distribution. This review is expected to assist
the Government's deliberations and preparation of the Third Plan; the final
report will be ready towards the end of 1978.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
17.      As of March 31, 1978, Indonesia had received 38 IDA credits
totalling $601.8 million and 31 Bank loans amounting to $1,526 million. At
that date, IFC investments totaled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank



- 6 -
Group in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end
of 1976 was about 6% and the share of debt service, less than 1%. By 1978,
these ratios are expected to increase to around 127 and 5%, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments
as of March 31, 1978, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide inputs and advice to farmers and to promote
agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group. More
recently, a major effort to aid the Government's transmigration program has
been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has been on
expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas resources and
on establishment and improvement of development finance institutions, a
Credit has recently been extended to finance a small enterprise development
project.  The main emphasis in education has been on improving primary and
secondary education and manpower training as well as on expanding non-formal
education. In the social sector, the Bank Group has also financed urban
development, through neighborhood improvement programs, urban water supplies
and family planning and nutrition. A major portion of Bank Group financing
has been used to rehabilitate and expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure,
particularly in the power and transportation sectors. Credits have also been
extended to finance a telecommunications project and a tourism project.
Finally, the Bank Group has assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and
formulate its development programs and projects through four technical
assistance Credits and a Loan for a natural resource survey and mapping
project.
19.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968
for irrigation rehabilitation, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June
1974. Disbursements on Loans and Credits, which were slow in the early years,
are now at satisfactory levels. The Indonesian authorities have also become
increasingly aware of the cost to the country of delays in project execution,
caused by cumbersome procedures, and the need to establish an effective
control system in BAPPENAS (the National Development Planning Agency). At
the Government's request, the Bank arranged in 1974, for assistance under the
Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring
and control system which is now in operation and which should lead to
improved project implementation not only of Bank Group-assisted projects but
of development projects generally.
20.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work opportun-
ities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and increase agriculture production, particularly of food crops.
Efforts to increase employment through programs directed towards improving
the incomes of the poor and their living standards are expected to be the
major focus of the Third Development Plan (1979-84) which is now under
preparation. To assist the Government, the Bank (as mentioned in para 16



-7 -
above) has undertaken a major review of the development problems facing
Indonesia. This review should help the Government formulate policies and
programs to expand food production, further reduce population growth, and
expand nonfarm rural employment, particularly in Java. While some of these
programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group financing, it will be some
time before they are ready for implementation. Meantime, a small enterprise
development project designed to increase non-agricultural employment in rural
areas and small towns, has already been approved by the Executive Directors,
and an integrated rural development project is being processed. With respect
to agriculture development, projects are being prepared which would improve
and expand agriculture credit, research and extension services, rehabilitate
and expand irrigation systems, help replant smallholder rubber and coconut
plantations, and develop presently underutilized land in areas outside Java
for transmigrants and other smallholders. In addition to the population
program, which continues to have high priority, other areas of particular
importance for Bank Group assistance will be improvement of urban services
through construction of urban water supply systems and further expansion of
neighborhood improvement programs, and improvement and expansion of higher
education particularly of technicians, accountants and agriculture specialists,
as well as primary and secondary education. Finally, Bank Group financing
continues to be important for the Government's program of infrastructure
rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in transport and power, which will
continue to require very large investments for many years before these
facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's development.
21.      Between 1968 and 1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA
terms. Following the rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled
Indonesia to borrow on less concessional terms, it was decided that all
lending to Indonesia after June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974,
the Government has saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil
revenues and greatly expanded its development expenditures which are expected
to reach about $6 billion in 1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above,
it now appears, however, tlhat both the budgetary and balance of payments
situation is again likely to become more difficult in the years ahead. Thus,
while Indonesia has always qualified for assistance on concessional terms on
grounds of its low per capita income ($240 in 1977) and the quality of its
economic management, such terms are now also necessary to enable it to
maintain a high level of investment without impairing its ability to service
its external debt. The Bank has accordingly informed the Government that,
starting in FY78, it will provide a portion of its lending on IDA terms.
22.      In the past few years, the Bank Group has financed, from time to time,
part of the local cost of projects with a low foreign exchange component,
particularly in the social sectors, in order to make a meaningful contribution
to the financing of these projects. As noted in Part I, Indonesia now faces
a more difficult financial situation, in part for reasons outside its control.
Despite the Government's efforts to increase its non-oil revenues and limit
the growth of current expenditures, Government savings in real terms are
likely to increase very slowly, if at all. At the same time, the Government



- 8 -
is attempting to increase development expenditures, particularly for employment-
creating programs, as well as for programs and projects in agriculture and the
social sectors, the costs of which are largely in local currency. The Bank
Group cannot provide adequate assistance to the Government's overall develop-
ment effort if it limits its financing to the foreign exchange cost of
projects, and future Bank Group financing will, therefore, include increasing
amounts for local costs particularly in the case of projects designed to
create nonfarm employment, provide social services and raise agriculture
production.
23.      The proposed loan is the sixth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to
Indonesia this year to $379 million. Projects for rural credit, and nucleus
estate and smallholders are expected to be ready for presentation in the next
few weeks.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
Major Issues
24.       The major issues facing the agricultural and rural sector in Indo-
nesia are: the need to create productive employment opportunites to raise
the incomes of the rural poor; the need to increase domestic food supply to
keep pace with rising demand; the need to expand production of agricultural
exports, particularly smallholder tree crops; and the need to ensure produc-
tive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land, water and other natural
resources. These issues are all interrelated. Their solution will necessarily
involve complex and sometimes novel technical and organizational approaches,
along with attendant risks that must be recognized and accepted if programs
are to be developed to deal with Indonesia's problems on the requisite scale.
The risks of action must be weighed against the risks of inaction in the face
of widespread poverty and underemployment, growing food import requirements,
and ecological damage caused by insufficient control of deforestation.
Role and Performance of the Sector
25.       Although the contribution of agriculture to GDP and exports has
declined during the last 15 years, the rural sector continues to be of over-
whelming importance to the vast majority of the Indonesian people in terms
of employment, incomes and food production. Some 80% of the country's
135.5 million people /1 live in rural areas. With the exception of oil palm
and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholder production; there are some
14.4 million smallholders producing subsistence and cash crops on 14.2 mil-
lion ha and 1,800 large estates occupying 2.2 million ha. Over the five
years to 1976, the growth rate of agricultural production has been uneven,
/1 Estimate for mid-1978 based on Inter-Censal Population Survey of March 1976.



-9-
averaging 3.8% while total GDP grew at 7.9%. In 1977, agricultural perfor-
mance was disappointing. For the second straight year, rice production was
plagued by inadequate or untimely rainfall in many parts of Java, and by pest
and disease damage to high yielding varieties. In view of the critical role
of agriculture as the primary source of household income for oveL half of all
Indonesians, the slowdown in agricultural growth takes on considerable social
significance.
Development Problems and Potentials
26.       In Java, the cultivable land is almost fully utilized and in some
areas agricultural land use already exceeds ecologically safe limits. In
1976 about 82 million peciple lived in Java which has 45% of the cropped area
and only 7% of the country's total land area. About one-third of Java's
rural population is landless and a large proportion cannot support themselves
on incomes from their own farms. Outside Java there are large areas of
unused cultivable land, although less fertile than in Java, and other natural
resources to be exploited. While the inhabitants of these islands do not
enjoy high standards of living, they are generally better off than many in
Java.
Development Strategies
27.       Employment:  Perhaps the single most important challenge
facing the Indonesian Government is to guide and structure the development
process in such a way that the creation of new opportunities for gainful
employment does at least keep pace with the growth of the labor force. The
changes associated with modernization in rural Java are generally labor-saving,
so that farming is increasingly becoming a part-time activity. Modern manufac-
turing and services have been unable to absorb the incremental labor force.
Successful locally administered public rural works programs (INPRES), may be
difficult to expand due ito limited budget and implementation capacity. Future
employment strategy will therefore stress labor-intensive export industries
and small-scale rural eniterprises producing for the domestic market. There
may also be potential for more productive agricultural employment through
increased cropping intensity and a shift to higher value crops and livestock,
including fruits and veg,etables grown on house compounds.
28.       Food Crops:  Despite the heavy emphasis on rice production
in the past, recent developments suggest a widening gap between domestic
production and demand for food. The rate of growth of rice production
appears to have declined in recent years and the principal non-rice food
crops have stagnated. There is no room for relaxing the national rice
production effort. To keep rice imports below some reasonable fraction of
world trade in rice, demand must be shifted to other domestic and imported
staples and production must grow at around 4% per year. Improved water
management and agricultural supporting services are essential for increasing
rice yields and production. On Java there remains much scope for more
efficient water use, through construction of additional tertiary and quater-
nary canals. On the other islands there is potential for new irrigation
systems including tidal and swamp land development. Efforts to increase rice



- 10 -
production must include an intensified research and extension effort to solve
the pest and disease problem. Upland food crops also offer promising develop-
ment prospects. There is much room for yield improvement through intensified
research and supporting services, and tremendous scope for area expansion in
the other islands if stable, long-term cropping systems can be developed. In
addition, a food policy which emphasizes upland crop production as well as
rice would serve the twin goals of growth and equity better than a policy
aimed exclusively at rice, as many of the poorest parts of Java and the other
islands are best suited to dry land farming.
29.       Transmigration:  Transmigration offers challenging opportunities
for improving social equity and the economic use of Indonesia's two main
underemployed resources: Javanese labor and land in the other islands.
Transmigration has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations about its
potential contribution to regional development and the solution of Java's
population problems, overambitious targets and weak, uncoordinated implemen-
tation. These problems are now being addressed. The present focus is on the
organizational aspects of transmigration, the development of an economically
viable farming system, and the design of a least cost package of services
needed to ensure successful, long-term settlement.
30.       Tree Crops:  The Government has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder tree crops outside Java as part of its transmigration
and national rubber and coconut replanting programs. The objective is to
improve production on existing blocks while developing large areas of new
land for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches has been to use
public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by local
landless families and transmigrants. The estate companies provide a range of
services including planting material, land clearing and planting, inputs,
processing and marketing facilities for the smallholders. This approach is
well taken in view of Indonesia's scarce managerial and technical capabilities.
The Role of the Government
31.       The capacity of the Indonesian Government to plan and implement
agricultural and rural development programs has generally improved over the
past decade.  However, future programs responsive to the Government's stated
objectives will necessarily be more complex than those which the Government
has followed up to now. They will require closely coordinated "packages" of
research, extension, inputs, credit, land development, transportation and
marketing improvements. Multi-agency integrated area development programs
in Java and land settlement schemes in the other islands will require
stronger field organizations of Government line agencies and local govern-
mental authorities, as well as new administrative arrangements. With the
more complex organizational requirements of future programs, implementation
capacity is likely to become the limiting factor in Indonesia's economic
and social development. It is therefore of utmost importance that the
Government continue its efforts to strengthen the key rural development
institutions.



- 11 
Bank Lending Strategy
32.       There is general agreement between the Bank and the Government on
the overall objectives and strategies proposed for the rural sector. While
views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis to be given to different
investments and on the technical design of some projects, such differences
are not profound and are likely to be resolved with further analysis and
dialogue.
33.       The Bank has been and should continue to be involved in a broad
range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia. Since the first
irrigation credit in 1968 the Bank has rapidly expanded its agricultural and
rural lending to include support for estate and smallholder tree crops,
fertilizer production an,d distribution, sugar estates, support services,
transmigration, livestock and fisheries.  An integrated rural development
project is currently being appraised. Of the three credits closed w:fhin the
last year (Estates I, Irrigation I and Pusri Fertilizer), all showed excellent
rates of return ranging from 25% to 33%. Taking 1974 as base year, Bank-
financed projects will contribute almost 60% of the increase in palm oil
output by 1980, about 16% of incremental sugar production and 6% of incremental
rice and rubber. Four continuing trends in Bank agricultural lending to
Indonesia are: (a) a shift from rehabilitation to new development activities;
(b) a shift from support of state enterprises to direct support of smallholders;
(c) an increased emphasis on rainfed systems; and (d) greater emphasis on
development of the other islands. All these trends are consistent with the
Government's changing policies.
The Irrigation Subsector
34.       Rice is the dominant irrigated crop in Indonesia.  Of an estimated
8.4 million ha of rice harvested in 1976, 7.2 million ha were irrigated or
grown under wet land conditions. Irrigation systems cover about 5 million
ha, of which Java accounts for 60%. Average paddy yields on Java are
about 3.3 ton/ha compared with 2.8 ton/ha in the other islands. Although
irrigation has long been a major feature of Indonesian agriculture, by the
late 1960s the systems built during the colonial period were in a state
of complete disrepair. Irrigation development during the first two develop-
ment plan periods concentrated heavily on the rehabilitation of these
systems. Construction of new systems, mainly to serve as the basis for
transmigration projects outside Java, lagged behind.
35.       The share of the irrigation program in the annual development
budget over the last ten years was between 10 and 12%. Since the late 1960s,
the area harvested under irrigation has increased at an average annual rate
of almost 2%, compared with the increase of total rice area harvested of just
under 1%. Over the same period, the production of rice on irrigated land
increased at an average annual rate of 4.3%, compared with almost 3.8% for
rice production in Indonesia as a whole. It is difficult, however, to
quantify the impact of the Government's investment in irrigation. Apart from
the fact that most rehabilitation projects are still in various stages of



- 12 -
construction, the main difficulty is that yields of irrigated rice are the
result of the interaction of a number of factors which jointly influence the
final outcome. These factors include the level of fertilizer application and
crop management standards, as well as random events such as attacks of pests
and diseases and various climatic influences. However, it is generally
accepted that irrigation development was a major and an essential ingredient
in the 3.8% annual increase in total rice production between 1968-70 and
1974-76.
36.       Irrigation development under the First and Second Five-Year Plans
has concentrated heavily on rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems.
Bank-assisted projects, including this and the proposed Eleventh Irrigation
Project, cover about 1.2 million ha and account for over half the external
assistance commitments for irrigation in Indonesia, or about 20% of the total
budget for irrigation over recent years, and thus constitute an important
element in the total program. Despite the rapid increase in the size of the
program, the shortage of trained Indonesian staff to execute the projects and
the budgetary constraints, which in turn were exacerbated by cost overruns
brought about by high inflationary trends in the early 1970s, the program as
a whole developed successfully. Good progress has been achieved in Bank-
assisted projects, as evinced in the OED Project Performance Audit Report for
Credit 127-IND (Report No. 2047) which concluded that the project has been a
success and that the growth and effective management of PROSIDA, the agency
responsible for implementing most Bank-assisted irrigation projects in
Indonesia, constitute a notable achievement in institution building. Institu-
tional development has not, however, been confined to PROSIDA; Bank assistance
has also been extended to most of the Directorates and executive bodies of
the Directorate-General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD). This assis-
tance, together with that of other bilateral and multilateral organizations,
has helped make the DGWRD one of the most efficient Government agencies in
Indonesia. Nonetheless, given the size of the irrigation program, continued
assistance from consultants will be needed if projects are to be implemented
expedit iously.
37.       With the rehabilitation of most existing irrigation systems
either completed or under way, future irrigation development in Indonesia
will shift to the construction of new gravity systems and swamp and tidal
land development outside Java. This shift does not mean, however, that
irrigation development on Java should stop. Many of the existing systems
still need to be fully rehabilitated or upgraded at relatively low cost,
and the limited potential for large storage and groundwater should be
developed to expand dry season cropping as far as economically feasible.
A recent Bank review of Indonesia's irrigation program concluded that to
expand rice production along with demand at 4% per year, the level of
investment in irrigation should be increased by about 20%. This in turn
would require further strengthening of the DGWRD, training and staff develop-
ment, and an expansion of agricultural supporting services. The proposed
project fits in well with these conclusions.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The proposed project was prepared by the Directorate of Irrigation
(DOI) of the DGWRD in the Ministry of Public Works, with consultant assistance
from Sir M. MacDonald and Partners, Howard Humphreys and Sons, ai.d Binnie and
Partners, financed under United Kingdom bilateral aid. The project was
appraised in October 1977. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1872b-IND dated
May 1, 1978) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 3 to
17, 1978 with the Indonesian delegation led by Mr. Suyono Sosrodarsono,
Director-General of Water Resources Development.
39.       The project would be a further step in the Bank's continuing
program of lending for the irrigation subsector, and would aim to increase
production from existing irrigated areas and extend irrigation to adjacent
rainfed areas, through rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of facilities.
It would also prepare the way for several future projects, through feasibility
studies, surveys and detailed design work. The project concentrates on
high-priority rehabilitation or upgrading of irrigation systems, which are
either ongoing or can commence quickly (together with studies for more
ambitious future projects).
Detailed Features of the Project
40.       The construction components of the project comprise three subproject
areas: the Kali Progo area in the Special District of Yogyakarta and two
subprojects (Way Seputih and Way Sekampung) in Lampung Province, Sumatera.
41.       For the Kali Progo subproject, system rehabilitation has been
under way for a number of years, utilizing local funds, and with detailed
design, construction supervision and some construction equipment provided by
U.K. bilateral assistance. Progress, however, has been extremely slow due
to budgetary constraints. The work proposed in this project would expedite
completion of the ongoing program of rehabilitation for 34,700 ha and would
consist of rehabilitation or upgrading of diversion weirs, primary and
secondary canals and drains, and the completion of the tertiary canal
system. In addition, the whole project area would be mapped. The improve-
ments in conveyance capacity and reliability of water delivery would permit
the wet-season irrigated rice cropping intensity to rise fom 88% to 100% and
from 41% to 83% in the dry season. Yields would also improve. Construction
would take six years.
42.       The original project request presented to the Bank by the Government
for both the Way Seputih and Way Sekampung subprojects included the construc-
tion of the two dams and, consequently, they were appraised as part of the
project. However, because of the physical size, large estimated cost and
long construction period required, the Government has divided the total
project implementation into two stages. The first stage would involve
construction of the irrigation systems plus completion of the detailed design
of the dams, both of which would be financed under the present project. The



- 14 -
second stage, which would be construction of the dams, has been left for
possible consideration for future Bank assistance. Although benefits from
works to be constructed under the present project would depend heavily upon
construction of these two dams (para 63), even with delays of up to five
years over the projected schedule for completing the dams, the total project
would still be economically justified, though such a delay would have adverse
social consequences.
43.       The first stage of the Way Seputih subproject was completed
in 1968-76, with assistance from Credit 127-IND. The system was designed as
a 25,000 ha settlement area. While an irrigation system (including tertiary
canals) has been completed for the full area, only 50% has been leveled and
irrigated. The original design overestimated the available water supply,
and underestimated the water requirements. Despite the satisfactory rate of
return (31%) achieved on the investment to date, the headworks and irrigation
system are underdesigned to fully utilize the available water supply
and storage is essential to regulate the natural flows. Under this project,
the existing weir and canal systems would be enlarged and the detailed
design of the storage reservoir (Segala Mider) would be undertaken.
With the project and the proposed dam, the irrigated cropping intensity
would increase from 50% to 83% in the wet season and from 8% to 15% in the
dry season, with significant improvement in yields on the newly irrigated
areas. Construction would take four years.
44.       The adjacent Way Sekampung subproject area, a settlement scheme
constructed in the 1930s, has similar problems of inadequate storage and
system capacity and, in addition, parts of the system require rehabilitation
and completion of tertiary canals, as well as expansion of the irrigation
system to cover the potential irrigable area. Under the project, the
diversion weirs would be upgraded, the existing canals serving 32,400 ha
would be enlarged and rehabilitated and new canal systems to cover 32,700 ha
constructed. Detailed design for a storage reservoir (Batutegi) and an
associated 8,600 ha irrigation system (Bekri) would also be undertaken. The
area irrigated would rise from 32,400 ha at present to 46,000 ha with the
project (but before the dam is completed), to 65,100 ha with the dam, and to
73,000 ha including the Bekri area. The subproject would require six years
for construction.
45.       For each of the above subprojects, equipment and vehicles, offices,
housing and telecommunications systems would be provided for the construction
and operation of the existing and proposed facilities. Under the project, all
new or rehabilitated primary and secondary canals would be flanked by an
all-weather service road available for public use.
46.       The Investigations and Designs component would include, in addition
to the further site investigations and detailed designs for the Segala Mider
and Batutegi dams and Bekri irrigation system, similar assistance for the
proposed Way Kandis (1,250 ha) and Way Ketibung (3,500 ha) irrigation systems,
also in Lampung Province. This component would also include aerial photo-
graphy, soil surveys and preparation of a program for completion of the Dumoga
and Gumbasa Projects, now under construction in North and Central Sulawesi



- 15 -
Provinces, respectively. Finally, feasibility studies would be undertaken
for the proposed Sermo and Sambiroto Dams, which could have significant flood
control (and some irrigation) benefits for the Kali Progo area. This component
would be completed within two years.
Project Costs and Financing
47.       The total project cost is estimated at $216 million (exclusive
of direct taxes), with a foreign exchange component of $115.9 million (54%).
Because of uncertainties in estimating quantities for the rehabilitation of
operating systems, physical contingencies of 25% have been included for
civil works and right of way costs, 20% for services and 10% for vehicles and
equipment. These contingencies reflect past experience on similar projects
in Indonesia. The estimated price contingencies assume rates of price
increases declining over the project period from 14% to 8% for civil works
construction and from 8% to 7% for equipment and services. These price
increases, which are based on recent trends, total 34% of the base cost (in
April 1978 prices) plus physical contingencies. Consultant costs have been
estimated at $8,000/man-nonth (including all overheads, housing and travel)
for expatriate firms and $1,200/man-month for local firms. The proposed
Bank loan of $140 million would finance the full foreign exchange cost of
the project ($115.9 million) plus $24.1 million of local costs. The remaining
expenditures would be met by annual Central Government budgetary allocations.
Retroactive financing of about $70,000 for consultant services is proposed to
permit a smooth transition from ongoing bilaterally financed activities for
the Dumoga and Gumbasa studies, which terminated in March 1978.
48.       Vehicles and equipment for construction and operation (estimated
cost $3.2 million) and major civil works (weirs, headworks, silt traps and
primary canals) for the :Lampung subprojects (estimated cost $38 million)
would be procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. For purposes of bid evaluation, a preference equal to 15%
of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the level of customs duty, whichever
is lower, would be extended to qualified domestic manufacturers, and a margin
or preference of 7-1/2% would be granted to local contractors for civil
works. Vehicles (up to a maximum of 56) for consultants and items of equipment
costing less than $10,000 each and limited to an aggregate total of $500,000
would be purchased through normal Government procurement procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. There are sufficient supplies of such goods to
ensure adequate competition. All contracts for vehicles and equipment in
excess of $100,000 in vaLue would be submitted to the Bank for review before
bidding and award. Mapping (estimated cost $2.7 million) would be carried
out under locally advertised contracts following usual Government procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank.
49.       Since the remaining civil works for the Lampung subprojects, as well
as all those at Kali Progo (estimated cost $80 million), are scattered over a
wide area and time span, they would be of little interest to international
contractors. These works (other than the tertiary systems, where structures
would be done by local contractors and the remaining works by paid local
labor under, for example, the INPRES rural works program) would be carried



- 16 -
out through locally advertised contracts following usual Government procedures
which have been reviewed under previous Bank-assisted projects and are
acceptable. Assurances have been obtained from the Government that: (a) to
ensure wide competition and upgrade the capability of the local contracting
industry, the works (excluding tertiary networks) would be divided into a
number of suitable contracts (minimum $150,000) that would enable large local
contractors and joint ventures of small local firms to bid within the categor-
ies or classes for which Government regulations require them to be prequali-
fied; (b) price excalation clauses, which are not normally provided in local
civil works contracts, would be included in contracts extending beyond one
year; (c) to minimize late construction starts, tenders would be advertised
as bid documents are completed and bids would be processed even before the
project implementation budget (DIP) is signed, although contract award and
signing would only be done after the DIP is approved; and (d) for contracts
estimated to cost $1,000,000 and above, documents would be submitted to the
Bank for review before tendering and award (Schedule 4, Section B.1 and E.1 of
the Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
50.       Disbursements of the proposed loan would cover 70% of total costs
for civil works (except construction of tertiary networks); 100% of total
expenditures for mapping, consultants and training and 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported vehicles and equipment; 95% of the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; 65% for imported equipment
procured locally (excluding vehicles); and 40% of total expenditures for
locally procured vehicles. In the case of tertiary systems, disbursements
would be made at 100% of the cost of structures only, provided as the with-
drawal application is accompanied by a certificate from the site engineer
stating that the entire tertiary network had been completed (Schedule 1,
para. 4 (ii) of the Loan Agreement).
Organization and Management
51.       The DGWRD, with primary responsibility for the construction and
rehabilitation of irrigation works in Indonesia, is organized along functional
lines, with six Directorates handling a wide range of operational and support
activities. Given that changes (including terms and conditions of employment)
in the basic structure of any Government agency requires Presidential approval
- a very time-consuming exercise - a number of executive bodies (such as
PROSIDA) have been established within the DGWRD to cope with specific tasks
which, given the increasing size of the irrigation program, could not be
accommodated in the activities of the existing Directorates. Since it is
within the power of the Minister of Public Works not only to establish
executive bodies but also to set terms and conditions of employment within
such bodies at levels above those obtaining in the line agencies, the DGWARD
has been able to recruit and retain the necessary skilled staff to work in
the executive bodies.
52.       Three proposals for the management of the project were reviewed by
DGWRD. The first would be to add this project to the six ongoing Bank
Group-assisted projects for which PROSIDA has prime responsibility. However,



- 1 7 -
it was felt that the addition of such a large project would overburden
PROSIDA and also lead to an unbalanced distribution of staff between PROSIDA
and the other agencies of ]DGWRD. The second would be to let the Directorate
of Irrigation (DOI), which planned and prepared the project, continue with
its implementation. This proposal was also rejected since there is doubt
that DOI would be able to attract and retain the additional high-calibre
staff needed to execute such a large and complex project. Accordingly, the
third alternative was adopted. A new executive body, Badan Pelaksana Proyek
Induk Irigasi dengan bantuan Bank Dunia (Executive Body for Major Irrigation
Projects with World Bank Assistance) (PIBD), is in the process of being
established to implement the project and possibly future projects. While
organizationally distinct from DOI, PIBD would share its management, facilities
and many of its staff with DOI. The Director of DOI would become jointly
Project Manager of PIBD. By this means, the flow of information and the
coordination of work assignments between PIBD and DOI can be maintained.
Assurances have been obtained that the Government would consult the Bank
before making any new appointment to the position of Project Manager of PIBD,
and would ensure that PIBD is adequately staffed at all times with competent
and qualified personnel (Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of the Loan Agreement). The
DGWRD recognizes that the establishment of new executive bodies is not an
optimal organizational arrangement. Discussions are continuing within the
Government and with the Bank on an organizational structure which would,
amongst other things, provide for greater integration of activities under
Bank Group-assisted projects with those of the DGWRD as a whole.
Technical Assistance
53.       Because of the present heavy workload of the DOI staff to be
assigned to PIBD, the impracticability of immediately strengthening it to
fully handle the project, and the urgency of increasing food production,
considerable reliance would have to be placed on consultants, at least in the
early years. Consultant contracts would emphasize the training of counterpart
staff, especially in the areas of design and construction supervision. Three
contracts are envisaged: one for the Kali Progo subproject and related
studies, one for the Lampung subprojects and related studies, and one for the
Sulawesi studies. The design and supervision of tertiary systems in each
construction subproject would be carried out by local consultants. In all,
about 1,265 man-months of internationally recruited consultants and 3,280
man-months of local consultants are expected to be needed. About 50% of the
international and 70% of the local consultant services would be utilized for
construction work, and the balance for investigations and design.
54.       Provision has also been made for three two-year advisors to
PIBD to assist it in the areas of administration and finance, contracts and
procurement, and operation and maintenance, with an emphasis on strengthening
the management of these activities. An advisor to DGWRD's Foreign Aid
Administration Division on loan administration and project operation is also
proposed.



- 18 -
Panel of Consultants
55.     In order to ensure that the dams to be designed under the project
incorporate the best available design and construction techniques, so as to
maximize their design quality and safety, a Panel of Consultants would be
established to review the planning, designs (and, later, construction) of
these dams (Section 4.08 of the Loan Agreement). The Panel would meet about
twice a year.
Monitoring of Benefits
56.       The monitoring system set up under the Sixth Irrigation Project
(Loan 1100-IND) would be extended to cover the Kali Progo and Lampung
subproject areas (Section 4.09 of the Loan Agreement).
Agricultural Supporting Services
57.       The major agricultural supporting services (research, credit,
seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, storage and processing) all require strength-
ening in various degrees to maximize benefits from the project. As many
of the constraints extend across the agricultural sector, they can only
be solved on a sector-wide basis, rather than in the context of individual
projects. Significant efforts are already being made to improve the quality
of the major supporting services, several of them with Bank financial
assistance. The National Food Crops Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND) is
introducing the "training and visit" system to the Special District of
Yogyakarta, while a Japanese aided program is doing the same for Lampung.
The National Research and Extension Project (Loan 1179-IND) is conducting
production-oriented research on paddy and other crops. The Bank is also
assisting seed production and fertilizer production and distribution on a
national scale. The village cooperatives are a focal point for the supply
of inputs, credit and marketing. Credit is mainly obtained from Bank
Rakyat Indonesia under the BIMAS program. For irrigated rice production, a
farmer can obtain up to $90/ha equivalent in inputs and cash. To be eligible
for such a loan, he must be able to demonstrate a reliable cropping history
and a satisfactory repayment record. Shortages of trained staff are the
main constraints on the expansion of the BIMAS program. For farmer in the
project areas the Government would ensure that adequate supplies of credit,
inputs and drying and storage facilities are made available (Section 3.06 of
the Loan Agreement). The extension service, in cooperation with the provin-
cial agencies and the Ministry of Home Affairs, would form farmer groups
(water-users' associations) for extension, production planning, water manage-
ment, and construction, operation and maintenance of tertiary units.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
58.       PIBD would operate and maintain the project works down to the
tertiary systems during construction and for one year after completion.
Thereafter, O&M of the works would be the responsibility of the respective
Provincial Irrigation Services under the overall technical supervision of



- 19 -
DOI. As noted in the previous paragraph, the tertiary systems would be
operated and maintained by the water users' associations, which would
collect from its members contributions sufficient to cover the cost of O&M
of such tertiary network (Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement). While there
have been considerable improvements in O&M services in the completed and
ongoing Bank-assisted irrigation projects in Indonesia, there is still a
need for more trained staf-f, as well as an increase in O&M budgetary allo-
cations for the main and secondary systems. For FY78/79, GOI increased the
O&M allocation for rehabilitated systems from Rp 3,200 to Rp 3,500/ha and
is considering the employment of additional O&M staff.  An assurance has
been obtained that adequate funds would be allocated to all Bank-assisted
irrigation systems, at least half of which would be available in the dry
season, and sufficient O&M staff would be provided in consultation with the
Bank (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Agricultural Production
59.       The rehabilitation, upgrading and expansion of existing irrigation
systems would permit both the wet and dry-season cropping intensities to
rise significantly. In addition, the availability of water in the necessary
quantities at the right time, together with the proposed strengthening of
supporting services (especially extension) would lead to significant increases
in yields. For example, paddy yields, which now range from 1.8 to 3.5 ton/ha
in the various subproject areas, would rise to between 4.0 and 4.5 ton/ha at
full project development. Aggregate rice production from the project area
would rise from about 217,000 tons at present to 513,000 tons at full develop-
ment (following the construction of the Segala Mider and Batutegi dams). The
increment is equivalent to about 11% of the current level of rice imports
and would result in gross foreign exchange savings of about $95 million per year.
No marketing problems are foreseen as the project provinces are rice deficit
areas.
Cost Recovery
60.        Irrigators in Indonesia pay a land tax (IPEDA) assessed as a
percentage of the value of production and, depending on the intensity of
on-farm irrigation development, water charges for O&M of the system below
the secondary turnout. As the result of a Government decision to allocate
some of the funds under its local infrastructure development program
(INPRES) on the basis of IPEDA collection performance, there has been a
marked improvement in collection rates in all irrigated areas in Indonesia.
The current average annual IPEDA rates are Rp 7,300/ha at Kali Progo,
Rp 3,500/ha at Way Seputih, and Rp 3,300/ha at Way Sekampung. At full
project development, these rates (in 1978 prices) are expected to increase
to Rp 15,000/ha at Kali Progo, Rp 10,000/ha at Way Seputih, and Rp 12,00/ha
at Way Sekampung. Based on these incremental rates, the cost recovery
indices are 14% for Kali Progo, 11% for Way Seputih, and 8% for Way Sekampung.
Although these recovery indices are low, they are considered satisfactory
since, even at full project development, the per capita farm income level of
most farm families in the project areas would be low in comparison with the



- 20 -
national average.   Assurances have been obtained that the Government would
recover, through IPEDA, the cost of O&M and a reasonable proportion of the
capital costs of all construction subprojects, and that IPEDA rates would be
reviewed every two years (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
61.       The proposed project, by providing improved water control, distribu-
tion and drainage, would increase crop yields and production on a total of
93,300 ha, consisting of 34,700 ha at Kali Progo, 12,500 ha at Way Seputih,
and 46,100 ha at Way Sekampung. It would directly benefit some 147,000
farm families (about 816,700 people) and, through the provision of additional
employment opportunities, some 42,200 families of landless laborers as well.
It is expected that in the project areas additional employment equivalent
to about 15,000 full-time jobs would be created. The project would also
support the Government's policy of reducing food grain imports.
62.       The internal economic rates of return on the subprojects, including
the construction of the Segala Mider (Way Seputih) and Batutegi (Way Sekampung)
dams, have been estimated as follows:
Kali Progo          21%
Way Seputih         14%
Way Sekampung       12%
Weighted average   14%
In calculating these economic rates of return the following assumptions
were used: a 30-year evaluation period; full agricultural development
reached six years after completion of construction; farm-gate prices for
rice, soybeans and fertilizers based on the Bank's commodity price projec-
tions for 1985, expressed in mid-1978 constant prices; a standard conversion
factor of 0.8; and a seasonably variable shadow wage rate for unskilled
labor.
63.       In order to achieve full benefits from the Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung subprojects, the Segala Mider and Batutegi dams should be con-
structed without undue delay, and an assurance has been obtained that the
Government would proceed with construction of the dams in accordance with a
time schedule to be agreed between the Government and the Bank (Section 4.07
of the Loan Agreement). Under the most unlikely circumstances of the Govern-
ment failing to construct the dams, the economic rate of return on the works
included under the present project at both Way Seputih and Way Sekampung
would be about 5%.
64.       The majority of the beneficiaries of the project would be small
farmers and sharecroppers. At full project development (Way Seputih, 1987;
Kali Progo and Way Sekampung, 1989) present per capita farm incomes would have
increased by 40% to 185% (from around $40 to $95 at present to $55 to $270). An
estimated 95% of project area farm families at Kali Progo, and 30% to 50% at



- 21 -
Way Seputih and Way Sekampung, presently have per capita incomes at or below
the estimated absolute poverty level of $95 (1975 prices). At full agricul-
tural development, the incomes of about 10% of these farmers at Kali Progo,
Risks
65.       No major management or organizational problems are expected in the
implementation of the project. Rapid inflation over the past several years
led to sizable cost overruns on projects initiated in the early 1970s. Infla-
tion is now more nearly urnder control, and provisions for price increases are
greater for this project (and other projects recently financed by the Bank)
than in earlier years. Risks are, therefore, considered normal for projects
of this kind.
Environmental Effects
66.       The effects of the project on the physical environment would be
small, as the project areas have been under rainfed or irrigated cultivation
for many years. Schistosomiasis is not present in these parts of Indonesia.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
68.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
69.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend thaLt the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 8, 1978
Washington, D.C.






AMNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                 Page 1 of 4 pages
INDONESiA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                           - -- ---------
---------------                                   INDONESIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1904.3                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      283.8                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           BANGLADESH    INDIA            PHILIPPINES**
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                       90.0 *   130.0*   240.0 */a               80.0*      100.0*      230.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           94,7       117.6     135.2 /a              70.8       547.6        3e.s
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        50.0      62.0       71.0 /a            492.0       167.0       123.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       337.0      419.0      476.0 /a            730.0       308.0       375.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          46.0       45.9      42.9                50.3        41.0        44.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           25.4       20.6       16.9               22.9         19.0       13.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       125.0 /a.b   ..                     .     .         .              81.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        47.5         ..      48.1                43.3        47.2        55.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8 /c    3.2         3.1                3.1         2.9          3.3
POPUL^TION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.1        2.0        2.4                2.9         2.3         3.0
URBAN                                   *-        37 la    4.1                  6.2         3.2         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           14.9       17.5 /b   IB8.2                6.4         19.8        27.6
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        42.1 Ia   44 0       43.9/a                 ..       41.6        45.6
IS TO 64 YEARS                       55.3       5 35       53.67j                ..        55.3        51.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.6 __    2.5        2.575                ..         3.1         2.8
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8         .9        009
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         ..          3                  ..         1.1  /L    1:5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .-     259.3 IC 6786.2 /c                *-    4585.0        320.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                  ..         ..         2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANO)         34600.0         .    4 44200.0 .b        22300.0   218000.0    12400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRtCULTURE (%)          7S.0         .       69.0                71.0        69.0        ss.o /a
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            5.4         ..        5.47f,               ..         ..         7.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
= _---------- ---- -
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  s% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..      33.7   .            16.7 Ia    25.0 lb
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              5. ..                2.0                42e U.3 a    53.11
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               .          ..       6.6 l               7.9 I       4.7
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..      17.3 7              19.s7       13.1          *-
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            48.0 /b      ..         ..               34.0  b
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           3.0 .L      .o.
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            41380.0 b26830.0  16930.0                  7600.0 /C  4890.0
POPULATION PER NUR_ING PERSON             .     77700 /d7310 0                               2f 72030 o   220.0 Ic
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           1370.01b 1670.0   1430.0                 8 7203 00   IB10. 0      8.
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          89.0      91.0       98.0                88.o Ie    93.0         93.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               43.0      43.0       43.8                  ..        53.0        45.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          1s.o1.1    14.0      16.6       -                    16.0        22.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..         6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       67.0       68.0       79.0 /              50.0 /f    65.0        113.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       6.0       12.0      19.0 tS.s  __                     ..        49.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0      12.0       12.0                10.0        12.0        10.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     20.0       29.0       32.0                 1.0         6.0 /d      6.o lb
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 47.0 /e   59.0       62.0 /h               ..        33.0
HOUSI4NG
PERSONS PL. ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..        1.6 /b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                         ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..       76.0
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..       23.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..         7.0
CONSUMPTION
_ _ -----_ _ _
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THou Pop)           7.0          -      39.0                 6.0        21.o        72.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THou Pop)            1.0        2.0       3.0                 0.4         1.0         8.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            1S.0      20.0       26.0                20.0       114.0       235.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.2       0.4        0.4                .0.1         0.3         2.0
--- - _--- -  ------------ -- - -R---
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
N=TS
Inlens otb.r,aiae noted, data fw' 1960 refer to say year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recant Estimnate between
1973 and 1975.
GNOP per cApit  data areb dcaeon the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basta).
The.  Ph~firpine   haee bee  oce ted as an objective country for its geographical similarity end because of its apparent advance stage of econmic
flf0ES IA       1960     Eaicludes Weo tIriau;    lb  1962;    /c  1951-56;    /d  1961-63;    I.  10 years and over, ability to read and w,rits,
in either Latin or non-Latin characters.
1970     /   1961-71;    lb  1971;    Ic  1968-70;    /d  Includingnuaviie.
MOST RLECENT ETIKDATE:    le  1976;    /b  1971;    /c  1968-75;    /d  Mostly  mmployed wokers seeking their first job;    Ia  Incose,
recipients;      If  Inc-lding nidwivee;      LIi gt enrollment.    /b  10 years and  -ovr, ability to rmad and
write in either Latin or non-Latin characters.
BANGCLADESH    1970    I   1966-67;    lb  19167-68;    /c  Registered, not all preoticing in the country:                    /d  Govercneont h- pital establishnents
only;    /5  Average 1969-71;,    /f  Approximate enrllamet as percentage of populatIon  lok 6-10 and 11-15 age groupe
respecctiv-ly.
IMIA            1970    /cRatio of Population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and over;    /b  1967-68;    Ic  Including midwives;
/d1967.
PHILIPPINEVS    1970     La  Ac percet.ge of enplcynant;    /b  Noct  Including privaes vocational schools.
RI8, January 26, 1978
0EFThErIOOP OF SOCIAL IxoICATM
IAre  (thou  ke2;                                                                          Popualation par -nuis  person - Pspnl.tia divided by member of pr.ttticig
oa;-Total s-rfac  er.as pnorising land area ad Inland waters.                               asIa and fem1l  graduate n-v.s.,  trained' or "certified" nurses,. an d
kgri. i M-s  r ....  -ea-lr  af  rgiutua            .O. uaed temporarily or peon-                a,illiary p.reenl with training or ..parianc..
nontly for sropa, p-at-re, carkt & ktuban gardena  or tc lIes fellow.                        Popualation Par hc..ptcl bed - Population divided by e,bn9r of hoapita1 beds
avaiable is p,bli. and Private gSere,l and ap*"ciaed hoepital end
GNiP o- ca it. (U1)' - GlNPpa  ca..pita acl,t at currat market Prices.                            rehabilitation centers; seclude. mrmiie haaas and  -anbltah-an    for
calculated by cma   --nsrio   nthod ac World Bask Atlas (1973-75 basie);                       custodial sod p-eve,otiv  cars.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                    Per -apita gossip of c-icrisa .7 of recuiremen.ta) - Capmptd fras energy
equivalent of net food aupplise aailable is country per capita per day;
Population and vital  t.citict;t                                                                  aveilabl. supplies compris. domsstic production, Imparts lass exports, and
Population (aid-Year rillion;    cc oaf July fir-t:  if not  -vilable, averaga                   cbangesa in stock; net auppliac exclude aeiea  feed, seede, quantities  -ed
ot two sod-year eatintec.  Vi60, 1970 ad 1975 data,                                            in food pron...sIonaend lIs.e. in distribution; requiroeeast  were aestimated
by PAOl based on physiological neda faor sornel activity and health cosid-
Population d..alty - Par sosaro ka - Mid-year population per square  ileater                      erig eoi.rota  temperatur, body -ighta   .ag  -Ad sax diatributtmca of
(100 heccrsa) of tta  area.              rc    ad    ;apo    .abv    a                         popal.tino, and alling 10  for weasts at hova.hold leel.
Population dnaiat,y -tprsur   eo  atc   ad-Cmptde   bv   o                                     Pat c&pit. supply of protein (areas Pe.r day) - Protein career af Per capite
aigricc1trur1 land only,                                                                        net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined c. abov; require-
mets for all co,ntrie.s eaabliah.d by -bs.A Econmic teseatcb Serrirse
Via   taitc                                                                                     provide for 5 xinissa IIneanc  of 60 strma of total protein per day. asd
Crude birth rare Pat- hbouad. eavr.Ac  - Aenu1 live births per thouasod of                        20 Sra  of enima  and pul.. protein, of which 1o gr-m  should be soimal
mid-year population; ceo-year arithmetic avergags ending 10 1960 and 1970,                      protein; thea statndards ame lomr thas  hee ot 75 greas at total pruteit
"od fiv-year -vraga aodiog in 1975 for most r.aret eatinato.                                    and 23 gras of asimal Protein a as o.  osage for the world, propoead by FA0
Crude death rare p-r thouaad. av.reca -  ouAl1 death. per thousand of aid-year                    L. the Third World Food Survey.
population; tan-year ariclstic  -vraea  andig in 1960 and 1970 and five-                     Par -seit. Prot.ie eup.Z, from aino1 and r,sl- - Protein  upply of food
yaar  -v-Sa ending in 1975 for  -ot tensor eatimate.                                            drive  ir    acinl  end pulse. in area  Per doy.
Infant  -otaity ratc  (chOu) - conul deatha of infanta undr one year of ate                    Ssth rats  /thou) asg 1-4 - Ona,ual deatho par thousand In sea grmp I"i
per thousaand live births.                                                                     years, to children in thi. age group; sugge.ted as an indicator of
Life  .pecctncY at birth (yrs) - Averse. o,abar of years of lifa rmiciot at                       salnutritLon.
birth; uaully fiva-y-a   --nrSaa ..ding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
1mg counris.Educatio
Grcee repr=dcio. r-t- kverage otaber of live deughtaem  a  oawill boar                          Adluat.d erlimenot ratio - Primary achool - tn...ollmet of all ages as per-
fin bar normal r-productive period  if  h.  mprams  present ago-pecific                        cetag. of primary school-age  poplation; includes children aged 6-tl years
fertility rats.; usually five-year averege  .nding In 1960, 1970 and 1975                      brat edjuatd for diffe-et lengtha of primacy education; for coutri.e with
tr develping   -twnrise.                                                                      universal education, enrollmet may  rexed 1007. sinn  .               Pupils ame below
PenrI-oion proth raco (7.) - total - Cappand  -nua  groth n-ae of mid-year                        or  babve the offinia1 school age.
Population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  Adijutd erlmn  ratio - secondary school - Computed as bhove;  -ecodar
Population eronth rate Cl) - urban - Cosmptd lim. groth race of total                             eduation require. at Il...t four years of approved primary ia,tructian;
population; different d.flnitiona of urban cree  may affect cosarebility of                     providee general, voctional or teacher trai.ing  i-trc-tionn  for pupils
datu aasmg u-atries.                                                                            of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are genertally eacluded.
Urban onnl.tion (7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                    Year  of schoolime oeI'dead (firerst  second levels) - Total years of
d.finitiona of urbaneeaa-   ay affect ...arability of deta  emang nmeeriae.                     schooling; at seoa  ty lee,v Lceeal ieetr,nia eap be partially or
oeml,telp   acdd
see  tcrastur- (aercant) - Children, (0-14 years), woring-ege (15-66 years),                   Vonationa1 enrolmet 7 of secoander,) - Vocational inetitutiomoens,           d
and retired (65 ysara and over) as percentages of sdye  population.                             technical, Isduetrial or other prog-te which  raerte tnapaend.ntty or as
As. depa.de-y ratio - catio of population coder 15 and 65 and over tc th..e                       departments of secodary institutions.
of agec 15 through h64.                                                                       Adult litstecy rata Ul) - Litsrat  adults fable to read and write) as per-
t-c-osic d.pendanoy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 -cd 65 s.d over to                        . oatage of totsl adult Population aged 15 years end over.
ths  ao,      reI   g  group of 1564years.
aLly nlnica_accentcr. (osemLat.v   thouI - Coxcia-v ounb- of  -ocp-o                          Mooina
of birth--c-1o devices under .-pic.a of nationa  fatly planning progrom                       Persons per roo  (urbn) - Average  abot of person   a pr roo  in oocupi.d
sinc   int ion.                                                                                 cevetionI dwellings  in urb an ..r..e; dwellings exclude nan-preraentm
F  nily p=anino  - reast.  at ofmaried women) - Portent.ass  of married wean ostroou.tr an  omcupied Partu.
child-heari.g ags (15-44 years) who use birth-ontcol. devices to all married                 Occun,led dolicswthot Piped water Cl) - occupied cnetoa   ulj
n  in    a-   age gtoup.                                                                     in urban and rura  areas withoot in-ide or ouatside piped ust., fsJiltiieu
ae  ercntae o  al  occupied dwellings.
tEmloymeocA.: acces,:t elecrricit C,  of all. d,sslllnes) - Con-onti-Ildslig  aith
Total labor force (thousand) - Econmai-sly active pe-ona, Including armed                         electricity to living quarters as per-er  of toro1 dwelligs in urban and
farms end unePloyed but secluding horsowives, students. etc.; defi.itione                       rural  -re..
Iis various  oririsam not comparable                                                           uR-I d-lling  connectd to electricity (7 -Computd as above for ruralI
Lbor force in  ,gicutur  CZ) - Asricultur-1 lobar force (in faming, forestry,                    dwellings alp.
hunting and fiahiog) am percetage of total labor forte.
UnemPloyed ft of Labor force)   U nemployesd are usually defined en person  who                 Conotmetion
are able end willing ta tabs aJob, out of a job on a given day, romasined ont                 Radio ...ceivera (go.r thou pop) - All typsa of re-si-sr  for r-di. broadcas.t,
of ja jb, and amahing work far a specified msm    period eat exceding one                       to general public per thousod of population; ...nudes unic....edreaer
waek; may anot be coparable between countries dun to different dafinitian.                      in countries "An  in years, when regiatration of radio sate was in effect;
of unaplay.d and  --rc  of data, e.g., employmet office   mtaietioc,  amepl                     data for recent years  ay not be coparable since most u-ut,i- aboilabod
suvy,cmpul.ory unamployment insuracrue.                                                    licensing..
P.... gar c.ar  (Par tho    n)- P"    PaengBr cars caprios motor cars.. seting
Inton  diac11rihunio t -Parorotag:,of privat  inca  (both incaosh and kind)                       lace than eight person; excldes abulance. h..-..c and  tlitar,
recive b  riobst57, richs.          0. porea  207, end po_ret 401 of hous-                    vehicle..
ho1da.                                                                                        ElI-triitry (kwh/yr par cap) - Annual  --soption of industria.1 c-n-ial
Public and private s1ecnricity in kilowatt bouras Per capita..Onre
Di.tributioc of lend owerhip - P....ntagec of land ownd by wealthiest 107.                        besa  on4  production data, without alwnefor Ilosse in grid. b.t allo-
and poorsat 107. of laud owia1g for leportc  and,.oporn  of,niectricity.
14e.serint (kg/Tr per c-n) - Per oapto  -.tnuI  -oncptin If kitogrose
9sAith and Putrition                                                                               estimated frma dasatic  production pl.. net iepart  af n-wprint.
P.pulation Par Physician - Population divdad by n,b.r of practicimg
Physiciasu quslifled frem a medical aubool at ucivar.ity leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
INDONESIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mil        %                        1960 -65           1965 -70           1971-75
GNP at Market Prices           28,146      100.0                          1.9                4.9                7.1
Gross Domestic Investment       6,891        24.5                         3.3               11.5               17.1
Gross National Saving           5,634        20.0                         5.8                5.1
Current Account Balance        -1,257     -  4.5
Exports of Goods, NFS           4,738        16.8                         1.5                7.8                6.5
Iwports of Goods, NFS           5,533       19.7                          0.2               10.9              27.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added -/                Labor Force-/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ M                            Mil   M _S
Agriculture                     4,221      44.8                30.5       69.0                  138         65.0
Industry                        1,915      20.3                 3.0        6.8                  638        300.0
Services                        3,279      34.9                 8.3       18.8                  395        185.0
Unallocated                       -         -                   2.4        5.4
Total/Average              .         .__
9,415     100.0                7-2      10.0                  213         ioo.o
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rp Bil.)                           % of GDP
1976/77*       1975/76                  1975           1974
Current Receipts                    2,904           2,201                   18.1           17.0
Current Expenditure                 1,613           1,247                   10.2           10.2
Current Surplus                     1,291             954                    7.8            7.7
Capital Expenditures                2,070           1,425                   11.7            9.8
External Assistance                   784             492                    4.0            2.4
* Provisional estimates.
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1971          1972        1973         1974        1975         1976
(BTillion Rp  outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                       469          695          987       1,452        1,995       2,645
Bank credit to Public Sector               387           333          357         412        1,637       1,752
Bank Credit to Private Sector              317           500          908       1,163        1,353       1,690
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            12.8         15.2         14.6        14.8         16.4
General Price Index (Sept. 1966 = 100)    642            807        1-028       1,370        1,640       1,873
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                           2.6         25.7         27.4        33.3         19.7        14.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                 .-          -14.0          7.2        15.4        297.3          7.0
Bank credit to Private Sector                *-           57.7         81.6        28.1         16.3        24.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
l/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 390 = US$1.
2 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
November 30, 1977



ANNEX I
Pace 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAWNTS AND CAPITAL FWIWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973475)
1974     1975      1976                                                  US $ Mii    %
(Millions US$)    Provisional
Exports:                        4351     4738      6033                 Oil (net)                         1897      50.4
Oil (net)                     2169     2921      3650                Rubber                              416      11.0
Non oil                       2182     1817      2383                Timber                              602      16.0
Imports                        -4220    -5533    -6297                 Palm oil                            132       3.5
Resource gap                   131    - 795    - 264                 Tin                                 138       3.7
Factor service:               - 210    - 462    - 781                   Coffee                              99       2.6
Interest                    -  64    - 178    - 354
Investment income           - 146    - 284    - 427                  All other commodities               483      12.8
Balance on Current Account   -  79    -1257    -1045                        Total                         3767    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       462       497       432              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                664      2395      2365                                                          US $. kil
Amortization               -  80    - 322    - 435
Subtotal                     584      2073     1930                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            10,140
Capital Grants                   62       ..        ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           - 126    -2250    - 205                  Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             - 214    -  46    -_375                                            I/
Increase in Reserves (+)        689    - 983        737              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
Gross Reserves (end year)      1473       590      1494
Net Reserves   (end year)      1472       489      1226                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               13.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         4       120       152
of which:  Petroleum          1       116       146
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       2169      2921      3650       IBRD/IDA LENDING.(December 31, 1977) Million USS
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed             402.2         455.7
T.hrouqhJ ly1971                Since  August 1971               Undisbursed                       1,012.5         106.1
Rp $ 1.00 =      Rp 375         US   1.00 = RU  415              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   1,414.7           561.8
Rp 1000   = US$2.67             Rp 1000   = US$2.41
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies)
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
December 31, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 19 pages
SUMMARY OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1978)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                      Undisbursed
Number       Year                      Purpose                         Bank       IDA     Bank/IDA
Thirteen Credits fully disburse,d                                                155.9      0.0
195          1970          Second Irrigation Rehabiitation                       18.5       0.1
220          1971          Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                        14.5      0.3
246          1971          Seeds                                                  7.5       0.8
259          1971          Tea                                                   15.0       2.4
260          1971          Second Highway                                        34.0       0.6
288          1972          Second Education                                       6.3       0.1
289          1972          Fourth. Irrigation Rehabilitation                     12.5       0.6
300          1972          Population                                            13.2       5.2
318          1972          Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                      8.5       2.0
319          1972          Fourth Agricultural Estates                           11.0       3.1
334          1973          Second Electricity Distribution                       40.0       0.5
355          1973          Beef Cattle Development                                3.6       0.9
358          1973          North Sumatra Smallholder Development                  5.0       0.8
387          1973          Third Education                                       13.5       4.9
388          1973          Third Highway                                         14.0       1.1
399          1973          West lava Thermal Power                               46.0      6.1
400          1973          Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                     7.8      6.7
405          1973          Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                         50.0      4.4
428          1974          Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                         16.5     10.6
436          1974          Privatle Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                  10.0       2.8
451          1974          Fourtlh Technical Assistance                           5.0      2.9
479          1974          Bali Tourism                                         16.0      12.1
480          1974          Fisheries Credit                                      6.5       2.3
514          1975          Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                       30.0      25.4
1005         1974         Railway                                    48.0                  6.9
1040         1975         Jakarta Urban Development                  25.0                  4.8
1049         1975         Five Cities W4ater Supply                  14.5                 11.8
1054         1975         Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                            50.0                 4.5



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 19 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                  Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                        Undisbursed
Number       Year                       Purpose                         Bank       IDA      Bank/IDA
1089         1975          Second Fertilizer Expansion                 115.0                  3.0
1100         1975          Sixth Irrigation                             65.0                 55.2
1127         1975          Fourth Power                                 41.0                 14.9
1139         1976          Fertilizer Distribution                      68.0                  3.6
1179         1976          Agricultural Research & Extension            21.5                 20.6
1197         1976          National Resource Survey & Mapping           13.0                 12.0
1236         1976          Fourth Highway                              130.0                116.4
1237         1976          Fourth Education                             37.0                 35.2
1250         1976          Second Shipping                              54.0                 52.7
1254         1976          Third Fertilizer Expansion                   70.0                 21.5
1259         1976          Fifth Power                                  90.0                 82.7
1267         1976          National Food Crops Extension                22.0                 20.1
1268         1976          Seventh Irrigation                           33.0                 27.1
1318         1977          Transmigration and Rural
Development                               30.0                 27.5
1336         1977          Second Urban Development                     52.5                 34.3
1337         1977          Tanjung Priok Port                           32.0                 27.0
1363         1977          Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                                15.0                 14.2
1365         1977          Sixth Power                                 116.0                 97.6
1373         1977          Nutrition Development                        13.0                 13.0
1433         1977          Teacher Training-Fifth Education             19.0                 18.3
1434         1977          Eighth Irrigation                            63.0                 62.7
1435         1977          Ninth Irrigation                             35.0                 33.5
1437         1977          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                             40.0                 38.3
1472         1977          Second Population                            24.5                 24.5
1486         1978          Non-Formal Education                         15.0                 15.0
1499         1978          Nucleus Estates and Smallholders             65.0                 65.0
1513         1978          Seventh Power/b                             109.0                109.0
785         1978          Small Enterprise Development Credit/b                 40.0        40.0
Total                                                  1,526.0    600.8   1,209.3
of which has been repaid                                  2.3       0.0
Total now outstanding                                  1,523.7    600.8
Amount sold                                     26.9
of which has been repaid                      0.0       26.9        0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA/a                       1,496.8    600.8
Total undisbursed                                       1,072.7     136.6   1,209.3
,/a Prior to exchange adjustment.
/b Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 19 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1978)
US$ million
Fiscal                                                          Loan     Equity      Total
Year
1971     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                 10.6       2.5         13.1
1971     P.T. Unitex                     Textiles                2.5      0.8          3.3
1971     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                 Textiles                2.0      0.5          2.5
1971     P.T. Kabel Indonesia            Cable                   2.8      0.4          3.2
1972     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles                4.5       1.5         6.0
1973     P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel         Tourism                11.0        -         11.0
1973     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                  5.4      0.7          6.1
1974     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles                2.0       0.3          2.3
1974     P.T. Monsanto Pan               Electronics             0.9        -          0.9
1974     P.T. PDFCI                      Devel. Fin. Co.          -       0.5          0.5
1974     P.T. Kamaltex                   Textiles                2.4      0.6          3.0
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                  5.0      1.5          6.5
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                   -       1.1          1.1
1977     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles                0.3        -          0.3
1977     P.T. Kamaltex                   Textiles                1.4      0.1           1.5
Total                                            50.8     10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled              25.9      1.7         27.6
Total held by IFC                                24.9      8.8         33.7
Undisbursed (including participants' portion) 0.8            -          0.8



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 19 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                    Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 195, 220, 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434                   5-7
and 1435)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,                 7-9
405, 480, Ln. 1318, and 1499)
Agriculture Support Services (Cr. 246, Ln. 1179, and 1267)                 9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785)                                             10
Education (Cr. 288, 387, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                              10-11
Energy (Cr. 334, 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                               12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                  13
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                              14
Development Finance Companies  (Ln. 1054, 1437,                            14-15
Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                         15
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                      15
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                    15-16
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                        16
Highways (Cr. 260, 388 and Ln. 1236)                                      16-17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                   17
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                          18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                       18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                              18
Urban Development (Ln. 1040 and 1336)                                          19
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                        19
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 19 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 195   Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Initial progress was delayed by difficulties in equipment procure-
ment and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs. The
project is expected to be completed by March 1979. The credit is about 98%
disbursed. The rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and
hydraulically adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is
improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost has more than
doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in contract
quantities, but the estiimated economic rate of return remains satisfactory
because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected during
appraisal.
Credit No. 220   Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Overall project completion is expected by about September 1978,
about 3 years years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay -
difficulties in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations,
heavy rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently, high inflation
rates and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained.  The project is now essentially completed with
97% of the Credit disbursed. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost is about twice
the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher than
those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 19 pages
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. About 70% of the works are finished
and completion of the project is expected by March 1979. The Credit is
about 92% disbursed. Feasibility studies included in the project have been
concluded and groundwater investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and good progress has been achieved.   Based on bid prices for the first
contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of detailed design, the
total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Most of the project programs have advanced well during the past
year. Design of works for the Cirebon and Rentang subproject systems is
beyond the capability of PROSIDA to execute, and assistance has been provided
under Loan 1434-IND to expedite this work through the use of local consultants.
Critical review of the program for benefit monitoring is under way.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation Project:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the engagement of the
consultants. The project is slightly behind schedule in the North Sadang and
tertiary development areas. The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are well ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation Project:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1983.
The project is progressing satisfactorily and is on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation Project:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977, Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is on schedule and progressing satisfactorily.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
before project completion, but factory capacity still has to be increased
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 5,000 tons or 25%. Inflation and additional construction and
equipment costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above
appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
participating in both the NES I project and the Transmigration and Rural
Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef CattLe Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 3L, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination haves been weak. Major changes in project scope and
objectives (approved by tlhe Executive Directors in June 1977) reflected a
change in the project from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for
export to that of production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and
breeding animals. The project was reviewed in November 1977 and the mission
found the state of ranch development and management satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 19 pages
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress of this project continues to be satisfactory, and the full
program of planting 9,000 ha of rubber and oil palm by smallholders was
completed by the end of 1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these
plantings will have been brought to maturity. Government has decided not to
expand the project in its present location because of the extensive support
already given to North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported
projects; instead, Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for small-
holder development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Disbursements are slower than anticipated and are about a third of
appraisal estimates. This is due to fewer than anticipated credit applica-
tions mainly because smallholder tea price has been higher than anticipated
at appraisal, which reduced the need for subloans. Also private estates have
been slow in joining the project because of their difficult financial posi-
tion, which made them ineligible for subloans and because of difficulties
in establishing land ownership titles. The Project Management Unit (PMU) is
now considering two alternatives: completion of planting by 1980/81 extending
the project period by two years to achieve 80% of appraisal estimates; or,
achievement of 53% of appraisal estimates by 1978/79. The project spin-off
and training have been excellent; about 2,300 ha of tea were replanted or
rehabilitated using funds outside the credit program but still under the
influence of the PMU. Over 3,000 farmers have been trained in training
centers and village level courses. A marketing study indicates that tea
consumption in Indonesia increases by 5% yearly and all of the tea produced
by the project will be consumed domestically.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date:  April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is on schedule and about 75% completed. The Joint
Sugar Projects Unit is efficiently supervising the procurement and installa-
tion of machinery and equipment. The two PTPs which are involved in the
rehabilitation process are both in a weak financial position and this
problem requires attention. Consultant services are gradually being phased
out as planned except for the sugar research station which still requires a
major input.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 19 pages
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initiLal delays, the project has generally been progres-
sing satisfactorily. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is virtually
completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equipment is on
site ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond lending has
suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development Project:  US$30 Million
Loan of Julv 21, 1976; Effective Date: February 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind appraisal
estimates partly because of the initial delay in project effectiveness, and
because of weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 650 migrant
families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing food
crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fertiliser
supplies and poor seed supply, although half originates from construction and
rubber planting. In the existing settled area at Way Abung, there has been
little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are not available on site
and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash crops. Experience to
date highlights the need for improving project management and ensuring that
agricultural support services and input supply systems are in place as settle-
ment proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I Project:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of Nlovember 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Initial progress under this project is satisfactory.
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 246  Seeds:   US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971; Effective
Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
At Sukamandi 1,600 ha have been developed and it is planned to
develop an additional area of 400 ha in 1978. Significant results as of
1976/77 season, expressed as percentages of appraisal estimates are:
(a) area under production - 2,020 ha (54%), (b) yields of rice seed -
2.9 tons/ha (72%), and (c) production of certified seed - 4,900 tons (42%).
Due to cost escalations and implementation difficulties, only one seed
multiplication district, Klaten, out of the three planned at appraisal, has
been developed. Total a-rea developed so far is 250 ha of a total estimate of
500 ha. National Seeds Corporation's cost of production continues to be high
and it is not commercially viable even with increases in production. The
Corporation will need co-ntinued financial support from the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project having suffered initial delays is about one year behind
the appraisal report schedule, but is now progressing satisfactorily.
Architects for civil works construction have now completed schematic drawings,
a contract for provision of technical assistance for research is under active
implementation and an agreement with FAO for technical assistance in extension
of agricultural information was signed in October 1977.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The construction and procurement programs, after a somewhat slow
start, are now on schedule. Staff appointments are on schedule with the
exception of some supervisory staff and subject matter specialists outside
Java. The new extension methodology has been adopted in all project provinces
and is being gradually applied. A second-phase project, covering the remaining
provinces in Indonesia, is being prepared.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This credit is expected to become effective in July 1978.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Printing of 81 million textbooks has been completed,
generally about nine months behind schedule. Similar delays are expected in
the printing of 31 million books for 1977/78, due in part to delays in paper
procurement. Teaching equipment has been procured and delivered. Teacher
training is on schedule and 3,800 tutors and administrators and 370,000
teachers have participated in training seminars. Due to delays in book
production, it has proved difficult to keep the training program in phase
with book deliveries. Project management has been strengthened by addition



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 19 pages
of specialists under a technical assistance contract signed with UNESCO. The
Government is presently see'king additional technical assistance in publishing
and paper procurement. Dis'bursement has improved and is now 91% of the
appraisal estimate as against 69% a year ago. The Government is planning a
major review of the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Govern-
ment textbook projects and to overall future needs for production of instruc-
tional materials.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project suffered initially a ten-month delay due to late
signing of the Funds-in-Truist agreements with the UN agencies providing
technical assistance and slow site selection. However, no further delays
have occurred and good progress is now being made in implementation. Cumber-
some implementation procedures in the Department of Manpower are still a
potential source of delay f'or that Department's subproject and should be kept
under review. Architectural designs for all three subprojects have been
prepared by consultants and approved by the Bank. Most sites have been
acquired and surveyed. Construction firms have been prequalified. Tenders
for construction of 14 to 24 project institutions will be called in the next
six months. Equipment lisits are in advanced stages of preparation. Eleven
additional technical assisitance specialists assumed their posts over the last
six months and the technical assistance program is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training Project: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is satisfactory. The overseas
fellowship program to train 40 Indonesian educators in ways to improve teacher
training has started. The technical assistance contract has been signed. The
design of physical facilities has fallen behind schedule because of delays in
appointing consultant architects. First phase civil works was, however,
tendered in March, permitting commencement of construction by July 1978.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education Project: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Initial implemen,tation progress is satisfactory. All positions
in the project unit are filled and appointment of key staff at provincial
centers has been completed. A technical assistance firm has been selected by
the project unit and contract negotiations began in late March 1978. Rehabili-
tation of one of two existing provincial centers is underway. Three of four
sites for new provincial centers have been acquired. Construction of four new
provincial centers is expected to begin in July 1978. Initial staff training,
learning materials development and evaluation activities are being carried
out.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 19 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 334   Second Electricity Distribution:  US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND
and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered setbacks in implementation
due to delays in the preparation of designs for the system expansion because
of constantly changing city development plans during the early period of
implementation, procurement problems and cumbersome management procedures.
As a result the project is two years behind the original schedule. These
difficulties have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. The
Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1977 to June 30, 1978
to allow additional time for the delivery of some recently ordered goods.
Completion of voltage changeover and connection of consumers will require
another 12 months after Closing Date.
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 MW units at Muara Karang (Part
A of the Project) were about 65% higher than estimated at the time of
appraisal. This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in
an increase in the total project cost of more than 100%. Government will
provide the additional funds required. The additional financing requirements
led to a delay in the award of the general construction contract and, as a
result, the project is about two years behind schedule. PLN has satisfactorily
met the targets in its financial recovery plan (Part B) provided for
under the terms of the Credit Agreement. The Java System Study (Part C) has
been completed. The Citarum Hydroelectric Feasibility Study (Part D) had to
be extended by another working season to complete additional field work. It
is likely that the Closing Date of the Credit will need to be postponed by
about 12 months.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Part A of the project provides for the expansion of the Muara
Karang thermal power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW
generating unit. The general construction contracts covering this unit as
well as the first two financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded although
after some delay because of the problems of cost-overruns for the first two
units. The Financial Recovery Plan (Part B) and feasibility study for a new
thermal plant in West Java (Part C 1) have been completed. The Training
Program (Part D) is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of the project
is now satisfactory but final completion will be about 18 months behind the
original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is under way but disbursement is
substantially behind schedule. Orders have been placed for the first of
three lots of equipment for about $11.0 million; these are now being
received enabling field work to be commenced. Bids are being issued for the
second lot worth about $40.0 million and arrangements for construction
altered to speed up implementation. Nevertheless a delay of about a year is
expected in completion of the Project, due to the slow start. Part B of the
Project (the financial recovery plan) has been completed.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power Project: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Orders have been placed for main generating plant and equipment.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power Project: US$109.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan is expected to become effective in July 1978.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertrilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 23, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
The project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December
1976, one month ahead of schedule. Some operational difficulties are yet to
be resolved. The gas system has been completed and total project cost
is expected to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project (PIJSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, was commissioned in mid-October 1977,
about three months ahead of schedule. Total project cost is expected to
be below the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 19 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 290 ha has been acquired and acquisition of another
31 ha is under negotiation. 104 ha of the 129 ha of developed land have been
sold to 83 firms. Factory employment at full capacity will be around 17,000
and an estimated 1,400 are employed on the average in both factory construction
and land development. Overall, operations are profitable. The return on
capital investment, which is now projected to be 20.6%, is significantly
higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to the fact that
developed land values are rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1054   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):  US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Despite significant institutional improvements achieved by BAPINDO,
the company has still a high level of arrears; its appraisal work is slow and
administrative costs are excessive. These problems are being addressed
through a Program of Action discussed and agreed among the Government,
BAPINDO and the Bank.  The loan is expected to be fully committed in the next
few months.
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III Project:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorly.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed satisfactorily. The Credit is
fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFC]. Project:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effec:ive Date:  April 21, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Credit No. 300  Population:  US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Diate: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The National Family Planning Program, of which the project is
an integral part, is expanding in terms of the numbers of new acceptors
recruited annually and now covers about 18% of all married women in the
reproductive age group. Implementation of the civil works component is
on schedule.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population Project:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6,
1977; Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30. 1983.
Although the NFPCB, the agency responsible for project implemen-
tation, had done considerable preparatory work, the promise of rapid progress
shown prior to loan effectiveness has not yet materialized. Tendering for
civil works and the procurement of vehicles and equipment are about five
months behind schedule, due in part to the preoccupation of the NFPCB with a
proposed internal reorganization, and the recent promotion of the Chairman of
the NFPCB to the post of Minister of Health in the new Cabinet.
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development Project:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under this project is satisfactory.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Teclnical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31. 1981.
The project is essentially on schedule. Construction of
BAKOSURTANAL headquarters and facilities, including cartographic, printing,
photographic interpretation, and data processing wings, is about 50% com-
plete. Contracts covering about 40% of the equipment to be procured under
the project have been awarded. The first new topographic map sheets of
Sumatra have been completed, and an orderly schedule for several hundred
additional sheets are in various stages of compilation and production.
Training programs and the work of expert advisors engaged under the project
are progressing well. Final loan documents for a parallel CIDA-financed
project are awaiting Government's signature.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
All the contracts for the original project have been let and most
materials and three ships have been delivered to Indonesia. Savings of about
$12.5 million from the loan were realized in the original project. Procurement
of an additional ship and bulk reception facilities to serve expansion of
fertilizer output beyond that anticipated at appraisal were approved by the
Executive Directors on April 5, 1977. The expanded project is under way, the
fourth ship has been delivered, and other components are likely to be com-
pleted successfully.
Credit No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overruns have been rela-
tively small (despite sharp price increases) due to efforts to reduce
construction quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services.
Construction work is completed; but work is still proceeding on detailed
engineering of the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to
reconsider road design standards in relation to those recently developed for
the highway betterment program and to take into account the Bank's recommen-
dations regarding standards for urban portions of the road.
Credit No. 388  Third Highway:  US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections in the
project was started early in 1974 under two contracts. Contractors have been
delayed mainly because of long mobilization periods and unusually adverse



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 19 pages
climatic conditions. Construction costs will likely exceed original estimates
by more than 100%, m ainly caused by in creased quantities combined with
sharply escalated prices. The project also included feasibility and detailed
design studies of highway betterment works. Most of the studies are now
completed and formed the basis of the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-IND).
However, work on a few studies will continue for another 3-4 months and will
then form the basis for lending by ADB or bilateral agencies. The training
program component was satisfactorily prepared and is being implemented by the
Government.
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway Project:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Nearly all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays ranging
from nine months to about one year. Construction contracts for almost 900 km
of roads have been awarded, and tender evaluation has been completed for the
remaining about 380 km. Some problems in the execution of the road works
have been revealed on contracts started in 1976 but it is still too early to
assess the future impact of these difficulties on the overall construction
progress and project completion.
Credit No. 318  Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:  US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to March 31, 1979 in order to provide additional time for several
new projects of ship rehabilitation and the technical assistance to be
developed. Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy appli-
cants,just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will
have been rehabilitated.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping Project:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants, most of
which have now been made, has caused a slow start to the project and has
slowed project implementation and disbursements. The financial position of
the state shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory, and further deterioration
could cause financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government
is considering steps to deal with this problem and with the acquisition of
high-cost new ships. Solutions likely to be proposed may require amendment
to the project description. It is expected that such a proposal will be
discussed with the Bank in June 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tanjung Priok Port traffic during 1977 slightly exceeded appraisal
forecasts for total dry cargo, about 2.8 million tons were handled in the
first half of 1977. The first construction contract for Basin III civil works
and the second for Regional Harbor improvements have been let; container
handling and other equipment is being procured. There continue to be problems
in completing government financed works in Basin III but these works are
expected to be completed by December 1978.
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement is now well under way and almost all contracts have
been signed or are about to be signed. Project execution is behind schedule
due to initial slow procurement and execution of works. Freight and passenger
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However slight
improvements were made in the second half of 1977 after the arrival of new
locomotives and rolling stock, and with operations improved with the aid of
consultants. The financial performance of the railway deteriorated in 1976
and 1977 due mainly to the declining traffic and to an increase in cost
including a large wage raise in early 1977. The overall situation is being
reviewed with the railway administrators and the Government.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion by the
end of 1979. The construction of the hotel training school has been completed.
The completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is
scheduled for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project
appraisal. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 31% in 1976
and by a further 8% in 1977 to 286,000 visitors. Despite considerable efforts
made by BTDC and the Bank Group in promoting hotel investment at Nusa Dua, no
hotel investors have yet come forward. It is therefore highly unlikely that a
first hotel at Nusa Dua could be completed by the end of 1979 to coincide with
completion of the infrastructure.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 19 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete.  Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 60% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots have been resolved. About
2,900 core housing units are presently being allocated, and the remaining
4,300 are expected to be available by September 1978.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Although land acquisition is causing some
delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is being
made in developing Government capabilities in undertaking a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974: Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule.  This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs about 15%
above the appraisal estimate. We are still waiting for the Government to
issue an interministerial decree defining relationships between the various
Ministries and the water enterprises, which was to have been signed by the end
of 1974.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
TENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   Three years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   Directorate of Irrigation in the
Ministry of Public Works,
with consultant assistance
financed by the UK.
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank:  August 1976
Date of first Bank mission to
consider project:                     March 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                              September 28, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  April 17, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) The Bank would make disbursements for tertiary structures only if
the withdrawal application is accompanied by a certificate from the site
engineer stating that the entire tertiary network had been completed
(para 50).
(ii) The Government would:
(a) establish and maintain a Panel of Consultants to ensure safety of
dams (para. 55);
(b) provide adequate credit and agricultural facilities in the project
areas (para. 57);
(c) establish water users' associations for tertiary units (para. 57);
(d) provide adequate staff and funds for O&M (para. 58);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) ensure collection of IPEDA sufficient to meet O&M costs and
recover a reasonable portion of the capital cost (para. 60);
(f) proceed with the timely construction of the Segala Mider and Batutegi
dams (para. 63).






IBRD 13141
09                                    o 100-                         103Id                             t9'                              000                          1 16r                             e lse                                1210                            l2              JANVAhY' Ib75
MALAYSIA
MALAYSIA                            /~0 01OOe,,e
SIOODha 00                         _           o.>SINGAPORE                                                                                                         j                                                                                               :                 Modo
PnlR.. Study Ale                                                                                                                  J
.000 h  h.                                -.
Bat orn9o    Tongah>1 000 Old  re,   .                                                                                                 ./                                                                                                                                                  Oolse,ombRoOJ
_000 ho  10,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15'000 h.
0''
Bdh,,i.oga,        R           H,oet      -Pnlsa
1,dodo      g                                                  ~K A  L I M  A N T A  N
Sungal Oar01 Suh-prolOt                                                                                                                                                    /~I                                                               o
'   9   OPan2kuSplnonR                                                                                                                                             KtlQ6-dple~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GoObC
500 h.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nlpp,,                                                                                            1,0 o~85
9   S U M.%A T E R A                      BANGKA
\'               (A, Soi P b-                                       BELITUNG
A,, Belie                                                                                                     .                     o~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U   L   AW S    I
L> h01,000   15000? bDO ho   )                                                                                                  4  ao.mo.os. 'u                            Noerh 0oidoen    CoelJor
Sob-proieot,                                     15000105 Seo ,   S A- 20,0000 h
W  Spu hS -psr    z         /4  00hd            hllhu PpWoo;                                           * ekoeepono5 600pojo                               So oo                        )."
;.                                                                                                                                                                        6,00 held7=^ Fhpr2p;5,>   l DranEgeshteprolectl253j55.00   U.poc h.,00,  Osloh .
-'I RRIGATION   PROJECT; X                           3oS,noiole                   SOb.p10100       WS          dd Poeiiter n-CGoenWdersral9                                                                            0,0  POOC            Sej
t    IRR DGATICN  EiiHA5SITATION   hO t:T n-IX             53700gr                        C isl oboe Be6l N                                        PFI,ct-
WRyono 0Sdpl0oh StU                                                             d    Y                    Ard 30
1051001105 POJC  >                                                                       5Olod9os )~o,ieo  & GeoedOO Seb-iejciO                                                                      ou.'                                                      dLrS
.d- ~ ~ ~ 0 0810  :010LT00                                                                                            kad35C  Pmg IX3h e ho  .    OBOC 0e020.>M7                                                     C                                       -     !.                                     AU
| ~        .1/5,~                    340Phr.esans[ha      t';                                                                 UAAAd    9i:^ortNWGlE
O   IDO  200  300  4t00   505                                                                 i ;,  y   3   9                     p       :   |                                                                         . . . U           .       : .                   %~~~~~~~~~lO 0005000040  pejes
INDONE~~~~~~~~l                   ,800OS  509    7::i   h oodo& e
KI OME!R                                   7,00               ''                            8001                      .0                 >s   
O~ ~ ~ ~~0or                                                            0,1,0 010,0  AlqO          J  A                                                                                                                          A.1 A  la p                --,
4I,00' 103'  :jj IOM      107                              112d   t                          IJ                                l                                                                   1
tRRIQArION PqoJeCT X~~~~~~                              92,             ~30,000 h.    vbopo 0,00 Ar  3M6d   bROolte                   0i    b~.
9'                                                                                       1005 Pro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(~ 420058    7N5oS4e, h.ee,ooe o,ee,a 0-
IRWGATION RtHAaWTA:Tl0NPA0k4T~~~SoeeNeX 8,                                                            -0-000,5h.                                                                                                                                                 0055
100'   103'                                 109'                             109'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C              d10                                                                                                                                     124411



