Document of             FVLw  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1872b-IND
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 1, 1978
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00             =  Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100              =  US$0.241
Rp 1 million        =  US$2,409.64
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)              =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                    =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq m)    =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                 =  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)           =  35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM) =  811 acre feet
1 liter (1)                    =  0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)         =  0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)             =  2,205 pounds
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton "dry stalk paddy"        =  800 kg paddy ("paddy gabah")
= 500 kg milled rice
1 ton paddy (gabah)            =  630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          -  Asian Development Bank
BIMAS        -  Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan
"Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs"
a farm input-credit package program
BRI          -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BULOG/DOLOG  -  Badan Urusan Logistik - "National Logistics Body"
- rice procurement agency/Depo Logistik - provincial
branch of BULOG
BUUD         -  Bahan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village
Unit Cooperative
DGC          -  Directorate-General of Cooperatives
DGWRD        -  Director(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
DIP          -  Project implementation budget
DOI          -  Directorate of Irrigation
GOI          -  Government of Indonesia
HYV          -  High-Yielding Variety
INMAS        -  Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification"
- a farm input program
INPRES       -  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a rur'al public works program
IPEDA        -  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
KUD          -  Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
MOA          - Ministry of Agriculture
NFCE         -  National Food Crops Extension Project
O&M          -  Operation and maintenance
PIBD         -  Badan Pelaksana Proyek Induk Irigasi dengan bantuan Bank
Dunia, "Executive Body for Major Irrigation Projects with
World Bank Assistance"
PROSIDA      -  Proyek Irigasi IDA - Agency of DGWRD created to execute
IDA-assisted projects
REC          -  Rural Extension Center
GLOSSARY
Golongan       -  Rotational system of irrigation
Gotong royong  -  Cooperative effort by villagers
Palawija       -  Crops other than rice, sugarcane and estate crops.  Major
ones are corn, soybeans, cassava, groundnuts and
vegetables
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA: APPRAISAL OF IRRIGATION X
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
General   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
The Agricultural and Rural Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 1
Development Strategies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 2
The Irrigation Subsector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 4
Project Formulation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 5
2.  THE PROJECT AREAS   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
Location    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  8
Climate    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  8
Soils.                                                                       8
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure   . . . . . . . . . . .                9
Agricultural Support Program ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
Existing Works and Infrastructure .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
3.  THE   PROJECT   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .  16
Project Works   ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
Water Supplv, Demand and Quality .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Status of Engineering   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
Implementation Schedules ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
Cost Estimates ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
Financing   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
Procurement   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
Disbursements   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  27
Accounts and Audits   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    27
Environmental Effects .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  29
Project Management .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
Consultants, Advisors and Training .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
Agricultural Support Services .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
Operation and Maintenance   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  34
Monitoring ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission composed
of Messrs. J.J. O'Brien, M. Saddington, W.P. Ting, N.D. Owens (Bank),
L.W. Bartsch, M. Fireman and J.B. Manson-Hing (Consultants), which visited
Indonesia in October 1977.



Page No.
5.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
Present Cropping Patterns .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
Future Cropping Patterns ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    36
Yields and Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Cropping Calendars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Drying, Processing and Storage ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    40
6.  MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES . .    40
Market Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
Prices    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  41
Farm Incormes ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    41
Proiect Charges  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    43
7.  BENEFITS, JTJSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    50
8.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AFIU RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .    61
List of Tables in Main Report
2.1  Summary of Climatic Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
3.]  Estimated M[onthly Run-Off of the Kali Progo . . . . . . . . .    20
3.2  Kali Progo - Irrigation Requirements at Tertiary Head . . . .    20
3.3  Streamflow Data - Lampung Projects   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
3.4  Summary Cost Estimate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
4.1  Consulting Services and Training .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
5.1  Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production .  . . . . . . . . .    39
6.1  Rice Price Structure, 1978 and 1985 ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    46
6.2  Input and Output Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    47
6.3  Summary Farm Budgets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    48
6.4  Rent Recovery .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    49
7.1  Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production at Full
Project Development ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    55
7.2  Total Monthly Crop Labor Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . .    57
7.3  Economic Cost of Farm Labor at Full Project Development . . .    58
7.4 Economic Costs and Benefits .59
7.5  Sensitivity Analysis   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    54
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimates, Expenditures, Disbursements and Allocation
of Loan Proceeds
2. Crop and Farm Budgets
3.  Schedule of Early Events
4.  Related Documents and Data Available in Project Files



- 111 -
List of Figures
3.1  Kali Progo Subproject - Implementation Schedule
3.2 Way Seputih Subproject - Implementation Schesdule
3.3 Way Sekampung Subproject - Implementation Schedule
3.4 Investigations and Designs - Implementation Schedule
4.1 Water Resources Organization
4.2 Directorate of Irrigation - Organization Chart
5.1 Kali Progo Subproject - Proposed Cropping Calendar
5.2 Way Seputih, Way Sekampung Subprojects - Proposed Cropping Calendar
List of Maps
IBRD 13141 Irrigation Project X
IBRD 13407 Kali Progo Subproject
IBRD 13130 Way Seputih and Way Sekampung Subprojects
IBRD 13131 Bekri, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung Subprojects






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF IRRIGATION X
1. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance
for rehabilitating and improving existing headworks and canals to serve
about 35,000 ha through the Kali Progo irrigation system in the Special
District of Yogyakarta and for the 25,000 ha Way Seputih and 74,000 ha Way
Sekampung irrigation systems in Lampung Province, Sumatera; detailed design
of the Segala Mider and Batutegi dams to increase the water supply of the Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung subprojects, respectively, and for the Way Kandis,
Way Ketibung and Bekri irrigation systems, all located in Lampung Province;
and for aerial photography, mapping, surveys and preparation of plans
for completion of ongoing work in the Dumoga and Gumbasa areas of North
and Central Sulawesi, respectively.
1.02      The feasibility studies for all of the project components were pre-
pared under U.K. bilateral assistance programs acting through the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development's (DGWRD) Directorate of Irrigation
(DOI). Consultants were Sir M. MacDonald and Partners for the Kali Progo sub-
project; Howard Humphreys and Sons for the sevetal Lampung subprojects; and
Binnie and Partners for the Sulawesi subprojects.
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.03      Major Issues. The major issues facing the agricultural and rural
sector in Indonesia are: the need to create productive employment opportuni-
ties to raise the incomes of the rural poor; the need to increase domestic
food supply to keep pace with rising demand; the need to expand production of
agricultural exports, particularly smallholder t:ree crops; and the need to
ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land, water and
other natural resources. These issues are all interrelated. Their solution
will necessarily involve complex and sometimes novel technical and organiza-
tional approaches, along with attendant risks that must be recognized and
accepted if programs are to be developed to deal with Indonesia's problems
on the requisite scale.  The risks of action must be weighed against the
risks of inaction in the face of widespread poverty and underemployment,
growing food import requirements, and ecologica:L damage caused by insuffi-
cient control of deforestation.
1.04      Role and Performance of the Sector.   Although the contribution of
agriculture to GDP and exports has declined dur-ing the last 15 years, the
rural sector continues to be of overwhelming importance to the vast majority
of the Indonesian people in terms of employment, incomes and food production.
Some 80% of the country's 135.5 million people /1 live in rural areas.  With
the exception of oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholder
/1 Estimate for mid-1978 based on Inter-Censal Population Survey of March
1976.



- 2 -
production; there are some 14.4 million smallholders producing subsistence
and cash crops on 14.2 million ha and 1,800 large estates occupying 2.2
million ha. Over the five years to 1976, the growth rate of agricultural
production has been uneven, averaging 3.8% while total GDP grew at 7.9%. In
1977, agricultural performance was disappointing. For the second straight
year, rice production was plagued by inadequate or untimely rainfall in many
parts of Java, and by pest and disease damage to high yielding varieties. In
view of the critical role of agriculture as the primary source of household
income for over half of all Indonesians, the slowdown in agricultural growth
takes on considerable social significance.
1.05      Development Problems and Potentials.   In Java, the cultivable land
is almost fully utilized and in some areas, agricultural land use already
exceeds ecologically safe limits. In 1976 about 82 million people lived in
Java which has 45% of the cropped area but only 7% of the country's total
land area. About one-third of Java's rural population is landless and a
large proportion cannot support themselves on incomes from their own farms.
Outside Java there are large areas of unused cultivable land, although less
fertile than in Java, and other natural resources to be exploited. While the
inhabitants of these islands do not have high standards of living, they are
generally better off than many in Java.
Development Strategies
1.06      Employmient.  Perhaps the single most important challenge facing the
Indonesian Government is to guide and structure the development process in
such a way that the creation of new opportunities for gainful employment does
at least keep pace with the growth of the labor force. The changes associated
with modernization in rural Java are generally labor-saving, so that farming
is increasingly becoming a part-time activity. Modern manufacturing and
services have been unable to absorb the incremental labor force. Successful
locally administered public rural works programs (INPRES), may be difficult
to expand due to limited budget and implementation capacity. Future employ-
ment strategy will therefore stress labor-intensive export industries
and small-scale rural enterprises producing for the domestic market. There
may also be potential for more productive agricultural employment through
increased cropping intensity and a shift to higher value crops and livestock,
including fruits and vegetables grown on house compounds.
1.07      Food Crops.  Despite the heavy emphasis on rice production in the
past, recent developments suggest a widening gap between domestic production
and demand for food. The rate of growth of rice production appears to have
declined in recent years and the principal non-rice food crops have stagnated.
There is no room for relaxing the national rice production effort. To keep
rize imports below some reasonable fraction of world trade in rice, demand
must be shifted to other domestic and imported staples and production must
grow at around 4% per year. Improved water management and agricultural
supporting services are essential for increasing rice yields and production.
On Java there remains much scope for more efficient water use, through
construction of additional tertiary and quaternary canals. On the other
islands there is potential for new irrigation systems including tidal and
swamp land development. Efforts to increase rice production must include an
intensified research and extension effort to solve the pest and disease
problem. Upland food crops also offer promising development prospects.



There is much room for yield improvement through intensified research and
supporting services, and tremendous scope for area expansion in the other
islands if stable, long-term cropping systems can be developed. In addition,
a food policy which emphasizes upland crop production as well as rice would
also serve the twin goals of growth and equity better than a policy aimed
exclusively at rice, as many of the poorest parts of Java and the other
islands are best suited to dry land farming.
1.08      Transmigration.  Transmigration offers challenging opportunities
for improving social equity and the economic use of Indonesia's two main
underemployed resources: Javanese labor and land in the other islands.
Transmigration has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations about its
potential contribution to regional-development and the solution of Java's
population problems, overambitious targets and weak, uncoordinated implemen-
tation. These problems are now being addressed. The present focus is on the
organizational aspects of transmigration, the development of an economically
viable farminmg system and the design of a least cost package of services
needed to ensure successful, long-term settlement.
1.09      Tree Crops.  The Government has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder tree crops outside Java as part of its transmigration
and national rubber and coconut replanting programs. The objective is to
improve production on existing blocks while developing large areas of new
land for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches has been to use
public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by local
landless families and transmigrants. The estate companies provide a range of
services including planting material, land clearing and planting, inputs,
processing and marketing facilities for the smallholders. This approach
is well taken in view of Indonesia's scarce managerial and technical
capabilities.
1.10      The Role of the Government.  The capacity of the Indonesian Govern-
ment to plan and implement agricultural and rural development programs has
generally improved over the past decade. However, future programs responsive
to the Government's stated objectives will necessarily be more complex than
those which the Government has followed up to now. They will require closely
coordinated "packages" of research, extension, inputs, credit, land development,
transportation and marketing improvements. Multi-agency integrated area
development programs in Java and land settlement schemes in the other islands
will require stronger field organizations of Government line agencies and
local governmental authorities, as well as new adLministrative arrangements.
With the more complex organizational requirements of future programs, implemen-
tation capacity is likely to become the limiting factor in Indonesia's
economic and social development. It is therefore of utmost importance that
the Government continue its efforts to strengthen the key rural development
institutions.
1.11      Bank Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between the Bank
and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed for the
rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis to be
given to different investments and on the technical design of some projects,
such differences are not profound and are likely to be resolved with further
analysis and dialogue.



-4-
1.12      The Bank has been and should continue to be involved in a broad
range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia.  Since the first
irrigation credit in 1968 the Bank has rapidly expanded its agricultural and
rural lending to include support for estate and smallholder tree crops,
f'ertilizer production and distribution, sugar estates, support services,
transmigration, livestock and fisheries. An integrated rural development
project is currently being appraised.  Of the three credits closed within
the last year (Estates I, Irrigation I and Pusri Fertilizer), all showed
excellent rates of return ranging from 25% to 33%.  Taking 1974 as base year,
B,ank financed projects will contribute almost 60% of the increase in palm oil
output by 1980, about 16% of incremental sugar production and 6% of incremen-
tal rice and rubber. Four continuing trends in Bank agricultural lending to
Indonesia are: (a) a shift from rehabilitation to new development activities;
(b) a shift from support of state enterprises to direct support of smallhol-
ders; (c) an inczeased emphasis on rainfed systems; and (d) greater emphasis
on development of the other islands. All these trends are consistent with
the Government's changing policies.
The Irrigation Subsector
1.13      Rice is the dominant irrigated crop in Indonesia.  Of an estimated
8.4 million ha of rice harvested in 1976, 7.2 million ha were irrigated or
grown under wet land conditions. Irrigation systems cover about 5 million
ha, of which Java accounts for 60%. Average paddy yields on Java are
about 3.3 ton/ha compared with 2.8 ton/ha in the other islands. Although
irrigation has long been a major feature of Indonesian agriculture, by the
late 1960s the systems built during the colonial period were in a state
of complete disrepair. Irrigation development during the first two develop-
ment plan periods concentrated heavily on the rehabilitation of these
systems. Construction of new systems, mainly to serve as the basis for
transmigration projects outside Java, lagged behind.
1.14      With the rehabilitation of most existing irrigation systems
either completed or under way, future irrigation development in Indonesia
will shift to the construction of new gravity systems and swamp and tidal
land development outside Java. This shift does not mean, however, that
irrigation development on Java should stop. Many of the existing systems
still need to be fully rehabilitated or upgraded at relatively low cost,
and the limited potential for large storage and groundwater should be
developed to expand dry season cropping as far as economically feasible.
A recent Bank review of Indonesia's irrigation program concluded that to
expand rice production along with demand at 4% per year, the level of
investment in irrigation should be increased by about 20%. This in turn
would require strengthening of the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development (DGWRD), training and staff development, and an expansion of
agricultural supporting services. The proposed project fits in well with
these conclusions.



-5-
Project Formulation
1.15      Previous Bank Group Credits and Loans were directed to the rehabil-
itation of the most seriously deteriorated systems, to extend and improve
existing irrigation systems, and to include tertiary and quaternary systems
in order to achieve more efficient management and utilization of available
water supplies and other agricultural inputs.  The components of this project
follow logically the policy of the Indonesian government to improve, extend
and intensify its agricultural production toward self-sufficiency and to
strengthen its internal institutions to more effectively accomplish this
task. The construction, investigation and design components of the project
represent a high priority package of activities which have been under way
for several years by DOI, but which have been progressing very slowly due to
severe budgetary constraints. The overall formulation of this project is
largely motivated by the urgency of completing the subprojects in a timely
and effective manner that could not otherwise be achieved.
1.16      Kali Progo Subproject.  The Kali Progo subproject is located in the
Special District of Yogyakarta on the south central coast of Java, one of the
most densely populated areas in the world, with densities of up to 2,000 persons
per sq km in some of the rice growing areas. Its existing technical irriga-
tion facilities were constructed during the colonial period, with additions,
modifications and extensions being constructed on a continuing basis up to
the present. Unfortunately, the rate at which the systems have been modified
and upgraded has not kept pace with needed improvement and maintenance.
1.17      A feasibility study under a U.K. bilateral assistance program was
completed by Sir Malcolm MacDonald and Partners in 1971 (Ref. B.1).
Rehabilitation and improvement in accordance with this study have been
underway for about five years, with the provision of some construction
equipment and engineering services for design and construction supervision
being provided as an extension of the initial bilateral assistance program.
Construction funding has otherwise been provided entirely by GOI.
1.18      There are other works essential to achieving the full capability of
the Kali Progo subproject resources. Principal among these is the necessity
to reduce flooding in the Kali Serang basin on the western side of the sub-
project area by the construction of the Sermo and Sambiroto flood control dams.
Feasiblity studies for the dams would be financed under the project.
1.19      Lampung Subprojects.  The first Bank Group irrigation project in
Indonesia (Credit 127-IND of 1968) included the completion of the Way Seputih
irrigation system in Sumatera using earthmoving machinery and materials
financed out of the proceeds of the credit. Because of the urgent need for
assistance in the irrigation sector, the project was appraised without the
benefit of the usual preparatory engineering or feasibility studies. Works
required to complete the 25,000 ha system were estimated at appraisal to
include the construction of 29.5 km of primary canal and 71.0 km of secondary
canals. Excavation works were estimated to involve 3.3 million cu m includ-
ing an estimated 100,000 cu m of tertiary canals. The estimated cost of



these works at appraisal was US$2.3 million. All these works had been
cDmpleted by 1976 at an actual cost of US$9.7 million. However, inadequate
water supplies caused a reluctance on the part of the settlers' to clear and
shape the land. Presently, only 12,500 ha are being irrigated. Furthermore,
recent investigations have shown that the completed physical system is not
adequately designed to deliver the volume of water required to irrigate
25,000 ha.
1.20      Despite the above mentioned shortcomings, the recent Project
Completion Report for Credit 127-IND confirms that high paddy yields can be
obtained on areas receiving irrigation and that the overall economic rate of
reaturn on works for Way Seputih completed to date is about 31%. In order to
provide irrigat:ion to the entire area, the existing system must be modified
and expanded and a new dam must be constructed.  These works were not
contemplated al: the time Credit 127-IND was approved and thus their inclusion
under the present project would not represent refinancing of any obligations
undertaken by GOI at the time Credit 127-IND was approved. The proposed
works are new; they are required to improve the scope and efficiency of
irrigation in the Way Seputih project area; and they would be justified on
the basis of additional benefits that accrue as a result of new construction.
1.21      Feasibility studies for the Way Seputih and Way Sekampung subproj-
ects (Ref. B.10) show that the average annual irrigated areas in the two
stLbprojects thaLt could be served with irrigation water at present, without
storage and following construction of the two dams would be as follows:
Presently           Irrigable             Irrigable
irrigated        without storage        with storage
Wet       Dry      Wet          Dry       Wet         Dry
----------------------- (ha) -------------------------
Way Seputih          12,500   2,000    12,500        2,000     20,800    3,800
Way Sepampung        32,400   6,800    46,000        6,800      70,000   22,600
The studies included detailed investigations for two dams to augment the
water supply of these subprojects. The Segala Mider dam which would serve
the Way Seputih area, would be an earthfill structure with a storage capacity
of 50 MCM. Batutegi dam, which would serve the Way Sekampung area, would
also be an earthfill structure with a storage capacity of 400 MICM. The works
proposed in this project include increasing the capacity of the existing
irrigation system in the Way Seputih area to serve 25,000 ha, increasing the
capacity and extending the existing irrigation system in the Way Sekampung
area to serve 65,100 ha; and detailed design of an 8,600 ha irrigation system
in the Bekri area adjacent to Way Sekampung. This would bring the total
irrigable area in that subproject to 73,700 ha.
1.22      The original project request presented to the Bank by GOI included
the construction of the two dams and consequently they were appraised as part



- 7 -
of the project. The appraisal revealed that although sufficient investiga-
tions were carried out to establish the technical soundness and economic
viability of these dams, appointment of consultants, preparation of detailed
designs and contract documents and the tendering of the works would require
about 24 months for Segala Mider and nearly 30 months for Batutegi Dam.
Because of the physical size, large estimated cost and long construction
period required, coupled with the fact that further site investigations are
required prior to completing detailed designs for the dams, GOI has divided
the total project implementation into two stages. The first stage would
involve construction of the irrigation systems plus completion of the
detailed design of the dams. The second stage would be construction of the
dams. Detailed design is estimated to be completed in mid-1980 for Segala
Mider dam and in mid-1981 for Batutegi dam.
1.23      Review of construction alternatives for the Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung distribution systems has shown that they could not be constructed
in stages, i.e., they have to be constructed from the start to their full
design capacity even though this capacity would only be fully utilized when
the dams have been completed. Analyses were conducted (para. 7.09) which
indicated that while delays of up to five years over the projected schedule
for completing the dams would have adverse social consequences, the total
project would still be economically justified. It was therefore decided to
proceed with the project on a "time-slice" basis under which all works would
be appraised at this time but financing under the loan would be provided only
for construction of the distribution systems and the preparation of detailed
designs plus contract documents for the two dams and the 8,600 ha Bekri irri-
gation expansion area adjacent to Way Sekampung. Different size irrigation
service areas, and alternative reservoir storage capacities, were investi-
gated at Way Sekampung, and for social, financial and economic reasons the
400 MCM reservoir capable of serving 73,700 ha was chosen. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that GOI would proceed with the construction
of the dams in accordance with a time schedule to be agreed between GOI and
the Bank, to ensure the full realization of benefits projected to flow from
the project works. These works would be considered for financing under
future Bank loans.
1.24      Sulawesi Subprojects.  Two projects in Sulawesi (Dumoga in North
Sulawesi [5,300 ha] and Gumbasa in Central Sulawesi [10,000 ha]) have been
under construction for several years by GOI with UK bilateral assistance for
engineering, equipment and construction supervision. The headworks for both
projects are completed and the primary canals are nearing completion. GOI
has requested Bank assistance to finance completion of these systems which
would involve construction of the secondary and tertiary canal systems.
However, it was found that there was insufficient information available to
justify construction at this time, and thus financing under this project is
limited to aerial photography, preparation of topographic maps, soil surveys
and to the preparation of a program for completion of the projects.



- 8 -
2. THE PROJECT AREAS
Location
2.01      The Kali Progo subproject area is located in south-central Java
along both sides of the Progo River (Kali Progo). The major city of
Yogyakarta lies close to the center of the eastern portion of the project
area. The region is served by air, rail and highway transport. Four vol-
canoes with peaks of up to 3,000 m elevation and lying north and west of
the project dominate the regional topography. The Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung subprojects are located in southern Sumatera. The Municipality of
Tanjungkarang/Telukbetung, the seat of provincial government, commerce and
industry, is located about 30 km south of the project areas and is the major
population center. The Trans-Sumatera highway skirts to the west of the Way
Sekampung area and through the Way Seputih area, as does the railway. Both
subprojects lie on the plains to the east of the Barisan mountains which
extend north to south over the length of Sumatera.
Climate
2.02      Climatic data is summarized in Table 2.1.  There is little variation
in the tropical, monsoonal climate of Indonesia, with temperatures varying
only a few degrees around the annual average of 26 C. Temperatures average
about 26 C and precipitation about 2,200 mm in the Kali Progo subproject
area.  The wet season extends from about mid-October to mid-May during which
about 85% of the annual precipitation occurs. In Lampung Province, Sumatera,
in which the Way Seputih and Way Sekampung subprojects are located, varia-
tion in precipitation is marked during the wet season (December-May) due to
the influence of the mountainous area to the west. In the six-month dry
season (June-November) precipitation is fairly uniform throughout the plain
and during that period is equal to about one-third of the annual total.
Soils
2.03      The soils in the Kali Progo subproject are generally moderately to
well weathered ash soils, well suited to intensive agriculture and rich in
nutrients.  The alluvial soils associated with the coastal strip and the
grumosols of the Progo terraces are the most suitable for intensive rice
cultivation.
2.04      Some of the soils in the Lampung Province subprojects are well
suited for intensive rice cultivation but others are not due to high
permeability. That characteristic varies among the subproject areas with
the Way Seputih area having the most extensive problem, and the subsystems
of the Way Sel;ampung area having moderate problems of this nature. The
other soil characteristics are satisfactory for rice cultivation and with
proper application of fertilizers and good water management, yields equal
to those achieved in other parts of Indonesia are obtainable. Methods for
reducing excessive water losses due to percolation would be explored during



detailed design of the irrigation systems in Lampung Province.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.05      At Kali Progo, the project area has a rural population of about
680,000 people consisting of about 86,800 farm and 37,000 landless laborers
families. The Way Seputih and Way Sekampung project areas have an estimated
rural population of 591,000 made up of about 97,600 farm and 7,800 landless
laborers families. The following table shows population statistics and
average farm size for each subproject area.
Average  No. of    No. of        Average
Project    Area to be      Total Rural  Family   Farm         Landless    Farm
Area        Irrigated      Population   Size       Families  Families    Size /a
(ha)                                                        (ha)
Kali Progo      34,700        680,000      5.5      86,800       37,000       0.4
Way Seputih    25,000         126,500      5.7      20,500        1,700       1.2
Way Sekampung  73,700         464,500      5.6      77,100        6,100       1.0
/a  These are the average cultivable areas and do not include the house
and garden area (0.25 ha or less). Additionally, Way Seputih farmers
have an average 0.3 ha of upland outside the area to be irrigated.
2.06      Reliable, detailed information on farm size  distribution is not
available for the Lampung projects. Generally farms already irrigated are
around 1.0 ha or less, while dryland farms range from 1.5 to 2.0 ha. The
following is a rough estimate, according to data from local officials, of the
farm size distribution at Kali Progo:
Farm size                   Farms          Cultivated area
(ha)              Number  % of total   (ha)  % of total
Less than 0.25       39,060       45       8,675      25
0.25-0.50            27,780       32      11,450      33
0.50-0.75            13,020       15       8,675      25
More than 0.75        6,940        8       5,900      17
Total       86,800      100       34,700    100
2.07      Both the proposed Lampung project areas are transmigration sites,
and both official and spontaneous transmigrants have settled them. Before
transmigration these areas were sparsely settled and were controlled by the



- 10 -
existing villaLges as Tanah Marga,/1 or were state forestry area. The
Government, after resolving the claims of the traditional landowners, has
normally given transmigrants the right to use the land (hak pakai).  Other
spontaneous transmigrants have purchased the land from the traditional
ciwners and registered the sale with village officials. Except for Way
Seputih, the Government has not yet issued any transmigrants with certifi-
cates of land ownership (hak milik). At Way Seputih the Government has
issued certificates of land ownership to about 50% of the project area
farmers. Although most transmigrants at Way Sekampung do not have certi-
ficates of land ownership, the basic principle of customary law has generally
worked satisfactorily, that is, when a man cultivates a piece of land for a
period of time he is accepted as being the owner of that land without any
written title. Farmers are able to obtain production credit without
certificates cf land ownership.
2.08      At Kali Progo, an estimated 75% of the farmers are owner-operators
and 25% sharecroppers while in the Lampung areas, practically all farmers
are "owner-operators".   In most sharecropping arrangements, the tenant and
the landlord equally share total production, and input and harvesting
costs. The tenant provides the labor and the landowner pays the land
tax.
Agricultural Support Program
2.09      The BIMAS program provides farmers with subsidized credit, ferti-
lizer, and agrochemicals; allowances for HYV seed, spraying and cost of
living; and extension advice for crop production. Under the BIMAS program
the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) is the main source of production credit.
For irrigated rice production, a farmer can obtain up to Rp 37,000/ha to
cover seed, fertilizer, insecticide, rodenticide, spraying, and cost of
living expenses. The loan is for seven months at 1%/month interest rate.
To be eligible for the loan, a farmer must demonstrate a reliable cropping
history and not be more than two years overdue with his earlier BIMAS
repayments. At Kali Progo the BIMAS program covers 67% of the wet-season
paddy crop, and 60% of the irrigated dry-season crop. At Way Seputih it
covers 40% of the irrigated wet-season paddy, and 30% of the irrigated
dry-season crop, and at Way Sekampung, 36% and 60% respectively. BRI also
supplies farmers with some medium-term credit (one to five years) for
purchases of draft and breeding cattle, pigs and chickens, and land clearing
and levelling.
2.10      The National Seed Corporation at Sukamandi (Credit 246-IND) pro-
duces limited Supplies of certified paddy seed. This is distributed through
BUUD/KUDs at Rp 150/kg. The Directorate General of Cooperatives (DGC)
olperates BUUDs/KUDs in the project areas. BUUDs are precooperatives which
convert to farm cooperatives, or KUDs, when proven viable. The cooperatives
/1 Tanah Marga is land held under the traditional system of customary law
(Adat law) by a wide group of families or village communities tracing
their ancestries back to a common origin.



- 11 -
distribute fertilizer and agrochemicals, and provide such processing services
as paddy drying and cleaning, in addition to storage. At each BUUD/KUD, BRI
establishes an office to handle BIMAS loan applications and repayments.
2.11      In both project areas, staff of the Directorate of Food Crops
Agriculture within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) provide extension
services to farmers. Extension services in the Kali Progo area are being
improved under the National Food Crops Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND),
while in Lampung an ongoing Japanese-aided farmer extension program (Tani
Makmur Program) is improving extension services.
Existing Works and Infrastructure
2.12      Kali Progo.  The project area of 34,70CI ha has been utilized for
rice cultivation for many years. Project works were constructed about
30-40 years ago, with refinement, extensions and rehabilitation being
carried out intermittently up to the present time (See Map 13407). The
project area comprises two major irrigation systems on the east and west
banks of the Progo River with a number of subsystems in each. About 8,700
ha are irrigated on the west bank and about 26,000 ha on the east bank.
The Kalibawang weir and intake is the major west bank diversion point on
the Progo River, and the Karangtalun weir and int:ake on the east bank.
Farther downstream on the Kali Progo, the Sapon weir and intake divert to
the west bank and the Kamijoro diverts to the east bank.
2.13      Three subsystems in the Kulon Progo area (Sentolo, Pengasih and
Papah) currently have independent but inadequate water supplies from the Kali
Serang and its tributatries. Under the project, they would receive supple-
mental water from the Kali Bawang system. On the east bank, the Mataram
system serves the bulk of the area with the Van <ler Wijck as the major
subsystem. Releases from the Mataram canal are made into several secondary
canals as well as into more than a dozen intersected minor streams where
small weirs redivert the supplies through secondary systems. Supple-
mental supplies for the Kamijoro system are also provided from the Mataram
system by way of the Kali Bedog.
2.14      The utilization of available water of the Kali Progo is character-
ized by the diversion and rediversion of return [lows from upstream irrigated
areas. The breakdown of irrigable areas by major systems is given in the
following tabulation:



- 12 -
Project area                       Irrigable area
(ha)
West Bank
Kulon Progo                             5,800
Pekik Jamal                                700
Sapon                                    2,200
Subtotal                           8, 700
East Bank
Mataram                                 13,800
van de Wijck                             4,700
Kebonongan                               2,300
Kali Opak                                5,200
Subtotal                          26,000
Grand total                       34,700
2.15       Secondary and tertiary canals exist for about 29,000 ha of the
project area, but are often in poor repair and inadequate for intensive
cropping. About 5,000 ha on the west bank in the Kali Serang area do not
have tertiary canals. Most of the project lands are in rice production and
the fields are bunded. Low lands near the sea and river channels are subject
to flooding during high water periods with some loss of crops. Except for
areas of the project where works have recently been constructed or rehabili-
tated, facilities are generally in a poor state of repair due to inadequate
maintenance.
2.16      Currently, work is under way on the principal diversion works on
the Kali Progo upstream from the project lands, and on the main carriage
system. Minor rehabilitation of works is being carried out in several areas
of the project. There is a wide variation of the amount of work to be done
oni the individual structures, ranging from complete rebuilding to minor
rehabilitation. The existing system is extensive and includes more than
40 km of main canals and more than 1,000 structures.
2.17      Way Seputih.  The Way Seputih irrigation system, designed to serve
25,000 ha of riceland, was completed with Bank Group assistance (para. 1.?X). 9
While the physiLcal irrigation system has been completed for the entire 25,000
ha, including tertiary canals, only about 12,500 ha have been cleared and are
irrigated in the wet season. The existing works were essentially completed
in 1974, although some water became available in 1969.  A good system of vil-
lage roads traverses the area, but effective maintenance has been a problem.
2.18      Diversions are made from the Way Seputih River at Ajibaru weir.



- 13 -
There is no sediment trap or silt removal facility in the canal, although
there is a sluice at the weir. The 57 km long primary canal is in place
with a design capacity of 25.4 cu m/sec but with present capacity restricted
by silt deposFtion to about 19 cu m/sec. There are 25 secondary canals
totaling about 135 km in length. Tertiary systems, serving blocks averaging
125 ha cover the entire project area.
2.19      The capacity of all of the primary canal and most of the secondary
canals were designed to deliver an average of 1.0 1/s/ha. Original design
capacities of the main and secondary canals were based upon design curves
that gave progressively increasing capacity as the areas under command were
reduced. These curves were evolved from practical experience and probably
reflected the use of rotational irrigation, a wide distribution of planting
dates and the random areal distribution of rainfall. That design concept
resulted in disproportionately large capacities for canals serving small
areas and created low velocities in secondary canals which in turn led to
problems of excessive siltation. Under the project, the design capacities
would be increased to 2.1 1/s/ha for primary and tertiary canals, and
2.2 1/s/ha for secondary canals.
2.20      Way Sekampung.  The four existing systems cover about 32,400 ha.
Initial construction was accomplished during the colonial period in the early
1930s. The main diversion weir was completed in 1935, with the irrigation
works completed following the settlement of trarnsmigrants. The settlers
provided most of the labor for construction.   The areas capable of being
served by the existing irrigation systems and the area that could be served
following implementation of the first and seconcl stages of the project are as
follows:
Subsystem                 Present             Proposed
…          (ha) ----------
Way Sekampung               11,700             20,500
Punggur Utara               14,000             31,200
Raman Utara                  3,100              5,700
Batanghari Utara             3,600              7,700
Bekri                            0              8,600
Total                 32,400             73,700
2.21      Design considerations for the Way Sekampung system were essentially
similar to those utilized and described above in para 2.19 for the Way
Seputih system. Design capacities of the canals were based upon an average
water requirement of about 1.0 1/s/ha. The currently estimated capacities,
which would be reviewed during detailed design, are set forth below:



- 14 -
Design Capacity
System               Primary      Secondary      Tertiary
------------ (1/s/ha) ------------
Sekampung and
Punggur Utara           2.0           2.3            2.1
Batanghari Utara           2.5           2.7           2.5
Raman Utara                2.3           2.5           2.3
As was the case for the Way Seputih system, the capacity of the original
canals in the Way Sekampung subproject commanding small areas are dispropor-
tionately high., Except for the Punggur Utara system, tertiary systems were
left to the farmers to construct, with only moderate success.
2.22      The entire Sekampung system presently depends upon run-of-river
flows to meet irrigation requirements.  This includes the capture of return
flows at the Ratman and Batanghari diversion weirs, both of which are severely
deteriorated. Argoguruh weir on the Sekampung River has been recently reha-
bilitated. Its original design diversion capacity was 54 cu m/sec, however,
due to sediment deposition in the weir and main canal, its present capacity
is only about 47 cu m/sec. There is no sediment trap or silt removal system
on the canal.
2.23      The main canal traverses a distance of about 9km to a trifurcation
known variously as Trimurjo weir or KH2 Diversion, where the supply is
divided to serve four primary canals - Punggur Utara, Sekampung Bunut,
Sekampung Batanghari, and Way Batanghari Supplement. The capacity of each
of these is presently inadequate to provide the necessary water supply.
For Punggur Utara a new parallel canal will be constructed while the capa-
cities of the other three canals would be increased. Improvement and extension
of all existing primary and secondary canals would be required to serve the
entire 65,100 ha incuded in the first stage works, and about 33,000 ha would
require construction of new tertiary systems, with rehabilitation required
for the balance.
2.24      For the existing irrigation system below the KH2 Diversion, with
the exception of the Punggur Utara subsystem, control and diversion struc-
tures are in general disrepair. Control gates and measuring devices are
missing, damaged or otherwise inoperative or ineffectual to the point that
good water control and management is difficult to achieve. Canal slopes, in
both cut and fill areas, are generally degraded and the channels silted to
th,s point that design flows cannot be passed.



Table 2.1: SUMMARY OF CLIMATIC DATA
Location                       Jan     Feb      Mar      Apr      May      Jun     Jul      Aug      Sept      Oct      Nov      Dec       Total or
mean
Kali Progo Subproject
Yogyakarta
Precipitation         mm         373      331     325      148      119       49       53       22        36      120     214      292          2,082
Temperature           °C        26.8    26.8    26.6    26.9    26.7    26.2    25.3    26.1           26.6    27.1    26.8    26.8              26.5
Relative humidity   %             85       84       83      80       80       75       75       75        73       77       81       81          79.1
Wind speed            m/s        0.6      0.7     0.7      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.7      0.7       0.8      0.7      0.6     0.7            0.7
Evaporation           mm/d       3.8      4.6     4.3      4.4      3.9      4.3      4.4      5.2       5.5      4.6      3.6     4.3            4.4
Lamoung Province /a
Precipitation         mm         348      246     309      186      138      102       96       90       100      115      186      255         2,171
Temperature           °C        25.7    25.6    25.8    25.9    26.1    25.7    25.5    25.4            25.2    25.4    25.5    25.5             25.6
Relative humidity   %             80       81       82      83       82       82       82       81        82       81       81       82            81
Wind speed            m/s        3.2      4.2     3.1      3.2      3.3      3.0      3.0      3.1       4.1      3.6      3.8      3.5           3.4
Evaporation           mm/d       4.5      4.8     5.0      5.2      4.9      4.6      4.4      4.5       4.7      5.1      5.0      5.0           4.8
/a  Representative of project area, including Way Seputih, Way Sekampung, Bekri, Way Kandis, and Way Ketibung.



- 16 -
3. THE PROJECT
3.01      The proposed project would include:
(a)  completion of ongoing rehabilitation and improvement of the
Kali Progo subproject irrigation system to serve about 34,700 ha
in the Special District of Yogyakarta, Java (Map 13407);
(b)  modification of the existing headworks and enlargement of the
existing 25,000 ha irrigation system in the Way Seputih subproj-
ect area in Lampung Province, Sumatera (Map 13130);
(c)  rehabilitaton of existing headworks and four irrigation systems
serving about 32,400 ha, and construction of extensions to those
systems to serve an additional 32,700 ha in the Way Sekampung
subproject of Lampung Province, Sumatera (Map 13130);
(d)  detailed design of the Segala Mider Dam of the Way Seputih
subproject, Batutegi Dam and Bekri (8,600 ha) irrigation system
of the Way Sekampung subproject, and the Way Kandis (1,250 ha)
and Way Ketibung (3,500 ha) irrigation systems, all in Lampung
Province, Sumatera (Maps 13130 and 13131);
(e)  aerial photography, mapping, soil surveys and preparation of a
program for the completion of the Dumoga and Gumbasa sub-
projects in Sulawesi (Map 13141);
(f)  feasibility studies for the Sermo and Sambiroto Dams on the Kali
Serang River of the Kali Progo subproject (Map 13407); and
(g)  preparation of a definite plan for the Rumbia area (3,000 ha) of
the Way Sekampung system (Map 13130).
]?roject Works
3.02      The project works for each of the subprojects can be summarized as
follows:
3.03      Kali Progo.  The work proposed encompasses the completion of
rehabilitation work presently under way by GOI.   It includes completion of
construction on the Kali Bawang intake and canal to serve as the major artery
for irrigation of about 8,700 ha located on the west bank of the Kali Progo,
including the Papah and Pengasih irrigation subsystems, and rehabilitation of
the Sapon intake and irrigation systems. On the east bank, the work includes
completion of the rehabilitation of works serving about 26,000 ha through the
M4ataram, Van der Wijck and Kebonongan systems and the Kali Opak system.
.3.04     Rehabilitation of the Pekik Jamal weir on the lower Kali Serang,
and Pengasih weir on the upper Kali Serang would be included in the west bank
work program. On the east bank, work would include construction of the
Protobayan weir to improve dry-season diversion capability from the Kali Opak.



- 17 -
3.05      Primary canal improvement, including structures, would cover
26 km of the 31 km Mataram Canal, 10 km of the 24 km Kali Bawang Canal and
the remaining 55 km of primary and all of the secondary canals in the
subproject area. New construction would include 2 km of the Sentolo canal
and two transbasin diversions to the Kali Serangs from the terminus of the
Kali Bawang canal for delivery of supplemental irrigation water into the
Sentolo, Papah and Pengasih areas.
3.06      Tertiary irrigation system improvement: in the project would be for
blocks of about 150 ha average and would include rehabiliation of systems
serving about 29,000 ha. Construction of new systems for about 5,000 ha
scattered throughout the Pengasih, Papah and Sapon systems will be completed
by GOI through their own funding processes. Drainage improvements would
include installation of flap gates and minor drains and levee construction
and rehabilitation in the lower Kali Serang area.
3.07     Way Seputih.  The works included in this project for the Way
Seputih area include the modifications of the existing weir and headworks,
construction of a silt trap and silt excluding works from the main supply
canal and increasing the capacity of the primary and secondary canals to
permit delivery of the presently estimated full irrigation supply to project
lands following completion of Segala Mider Dam. This includes increasing the
diversion capacity from Ajibaru weir from 19 to 44 cu m/sec by raising the
weir about 60 cm and constructing a new intake to the main canal, and en-
largement of 57 km of primary and 125 km of secondary canals, including
structures.
3.08      The project also includes provision of consulting services for
completion of detailed designs and tender documents and for construction
supervision. The potential for decreasing percolation losses by modifying
natural drainage channels to raise the subsurface water levels will be
investigated in the course of detailed design.
3.09      Way Sekampung.  The proposed works include the enlargement of four
existing irrigation subsystems, which are presently capable of serving about
32,400 ha, and the construction of extensions to provide service to an
additional 32,700 ha in the Way Sekampung area.
3.10      Construction would include modification of the existing Argoguruh
weir to increase diversion capacity from 47 to 137 cu m/sec, including
construction of a parallel main canal. Existing primary and secondary
canals in the four subsystems, including structures, would also be enlarged
and extended to permit delivery of the presently estimated full irrigation
supply to all of the subproject lands.



- 18 -
3.11      The project would include modification of the existing Raman
and Batanghari weirs which serve the Raman Utara and Batanghari Utara sub-
systems, and the rehabilitation of about 32,000 ha and construction of about
33,000 ha of tertiary systems.
3.12      General. For both the Kali Progo and Lampung subprojects, consult-
ing services would be provided for the detailed design and preparation of ten-
der documents, and for supervision of construction. Local consultant
services would be provided for the detailed design of tertiary systems.
3.13      For each of the subprojects, equipment and vehicles, offices,
housing and telecommunication systems required for GOI administration
of the work and for operation and maintenance of the project are included.
Additionally, funding of equipment required for the construction and improve-
ment of existing roads, and pilot tertiary and land shaping projects in the
Way Seputih and Way Sekampung subproject areas is included.
3.14      Aerial photography at a scale of 1:10,000 for about 300,000 ha
and orthophoto mapping at a scale of 1:5,000 and contour interval of 0.5 m
for about 140,000 ha in the several subproject areas in Lampung Province is
included in the project. Aerial photography of 100,000 ha and orthophoto
mapping of 40,000 ha, at the same scales, is provided for the Kali Progo area.
3.15      Rehabilitation or construction of all primary and secondary canals
would include gravel surfaced roads on one of the canal banks for use by
inspection and maintenance vehicles and to serve as an integral part of the
internal farm to market network in each subproject area.
3.16      Investigations and Designs.  The project would also provide consul-
ting services for:
(a) feasibility studies of the Sermo and Sambiroto dams on the Kali
Serang of the Kali Progo subproject to provide needed flood control
and supplemental water supplies;
(b) further site investigations and detailed design of Segala Mider
dam for the Way Seputih subproject;
(c)  further site investigations and detailed design of Batutegi dam
and the Bekri irrigation system of the Way Sekampung subproject;
(d)  further site investigation and detailed design of the Way Kandis
and Way Ketibung subprojects in Lampung Province, and preparation
of a definite plan for the West Rumbia area; and
(e) aerial photography and preparation of orthophoto maps for about
50,000 ha, soil surveys for about 31,000 ha and preparation of a
program for completion of the irrigation systems for the Dumoga and
Gumbasa areas in North and Central Sulawesi, respectively.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
3.17      Kali Progo.  There are only limited data available on river
discharges in the Kali Progo Basin. The principal records are in the upper
portion of the basin at Pistan, Kaloran, and Kranggan. At the latter
station, records are available for 58 months from 1962 to 1968 from which a



- 19 -
rainfall runoff relationship has been established and used to estimate the
runoff from catchments in the basin. With the start in 1970 of basin
investigations for future development, additional hydrological data were
collected which were analyzed by the consultants to further ref-ne the
water supply estimates.
3.18      The Kali Progo is the largest and primary source of water supply
for the project area. In the east bank of the project area, water is also
supplied by diversions from 13 streams which cross the Mataram canal and from
the Kali Opak, which forms the eastern boundary of the project. There are
more than 250 weirs in the 26,000 ha east bank service area which divert
natural and irrigation return flows to project lands. For the 8,700 ha on
the west bank, the Kali Progo is also the primary source of water supply
supplemented by diversions from the Kali Serang and its tributaries.
3.19      During the wet season there is an excess of water in the rivers for
the proposed development. In the dry season, in parts of the Progo Basin, the
water would be fully utilized and in most instances all the available natural
and return flow would be diverted into the irrigation canals at each of the
numerous small weirs on the basin streams. Because of the porous volcanic
nature of the terrain and the incised nature of the streams, the discharge
builds up rapidly between weirs from return flows and shallow percolation
losses. The build up comes primarily from shallow groundwater outflow which
is continuously recharged from the irrigated areas. In the Kali Progo there
would be a surplus of water in the dry season and even in the driest month of
September some water would be lost to the sea.
3.20      The Kali Opak is at present almost fully utilized and the future
expansion and intensification of cropped areas served from this source would
be supplied with supplemental water from the Kali Progo via the Mataram
Canal.
3.21      The dry season flows of the Kali Serang do not permit further
development or intensification without supplemental supplies or storage of
the excess wet season flows. This would be corrected by the construction of
diversion works to permit supplemental water to be introduced from the Kali
Bawang Canal and by the future development of the Sermo and Sambiroto Dams.
The surplus water supply in the Kali Progo, available even in the dry season,
is adequate to allow the intensification of cropping and the expansion of
irrigated area with the proposed modifications and increase in capacities of
the project facilities. The estimated run off of the Kali Progo Basin is
presented in Table 3.1.



- 20 -
Table 3.1: ESTIMATED MONTHLY RUN-OFF OF THE KALI PROGO
Month                    Mean flow      One in five-year low flow
-------------- (cu m/sec) -------------
January                      282                       227
February                     321                       275
March                        275                       222
April                        179                       135
May                           87                        59
June                          65                        38
July                          46                        26
August                        34                        17
September                     29                        13
October                       46                        24
November                      76                        46
December                     137                        97
Annual mean             130                       98
3.22      Montlhly irrigation water requirements for rice were computed by the
Penman method for each of the various service areas in the subproject area,
and are presented in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: KALI PROGO - IRRIGATION REQUIREMENTS AT TERTIARY HEAD
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec
-------------------------------(1/s/ha)-------------------------------
Kali-
bawang  0.98  0.56  0.84  0.82  1.05  0.94  0.69  0.70  0.62  0.86  1.17  1.44
Sentolo/
]?apah   0.84  0.65  0.74  0.80  0.88  0.87  0.78  0.80  0.81  0.94  1.02  1.05
Pengasih 0.79  0.60  0.71  0.76  0.35  0.84  0.74  0.77  0.79  0.90  0.97  0.99
Sapon    0.73  0.65  0.67  0.75  0.78  0.81  0.80  0.83  0.89  0.95  0.89  0.80
Van der
Wiijck   0.80  0.60  0.70  0.75  0.81  0.83  0.79  0.79  0.83  0.95  0.99  0.93
Mataram
WJest    1.21  0.70  1.03  0.95  0.93  0.98  0.94  0.80  0.83  1.12  1.35  1.31
East    1.54  0.96  1.27  1.18  1.19  1.27  1.12  0.86  0.82  1.12  1.47  1.57
Kebo-
nongan  0.79  0.57  0.70  0.74  0.83  0.81  0.71  0.74  0.76  0.87  0.96  1.00
Opak
Left
bank    0.97  0.59  0.70  0.65  0.75  0.74  0.64  0.66  0.67  0.78  1.09  1.11
Right
bank    1.09  0.63  0.81  0.78  0.71  0.82  0.95  0.80  0.91  1.12  1.28  1.03



_ 21 -
3.23      Computer analysis for the ten areas identified in Table 3.2 indi-
cated that sufficient water would be available to irrigate the entire
34,700 ha on a dependable basis in all years during the wet season. During
the dry season, however, deficiencies of 18% and 14% would be experienced in
the 1 in 5 year low September and low October, respectively. The probability
of sequential occurence of those two monthly conditions, however, is very
low. With a projected irrigated area of only 28,700 ha in the dry season
(para 5.08), there would be no deficiences.
3.24      The total salt content of river water in the Progo Basin is generally
in the range of 100 to 200 ppm, and the quality of water is excellent for
irrigation use.
3.25      Way Seputih and Way Sekampung Subproiects - General.  The results
of water supply and demand studies conducted by consultants for these two
subproject areas are discussed separately below. The techniques and procedures
utilized in these studies are discussed in detail in Reference B.8. Summar-
ized, the procedure consisted of generating synthetic hydrology covering a
20-year period for each of the major subproject streams based upon correla-
tions of stream flow records with recorded precipitation. Water requirements
for the subsystems in each subproject were determined as explained in Ref-
erence B.8. A series of operation studies were run, with principal variables
consisting of alternative sizes and locations of irrigated areas, run-of-the
river and stored water supply, crop factors and cropping patterns.
3.26      The studies are sophisticated and not conducive to simple presen-
tation in tabular or graphic form. The studies demonstrate that for the Way
Seputih subproject, storage is essential to the achievement of the originally
intended irrigable area of 25,000 ha. For the Wday Sekampung subproject,
they demonstrated that, without storage, the irrigated area would be limited
to 46,000 ha, while with storage, an area of up to 77,000 ha could be
served.
3.27      Way Seputih Subproject.  The water supply for this subproject is
derived from the Way Seputih (Seputih River) and its tributaries. The system
headworks, Ajibaru Weir, is located on the Way Seputih just below its con-
fluence with its major tributary, Way Tatayan. There is currently no regu-
lation above that point, the system is totally dependent upon run-of-the-river
supplies, and only about one-third of the project area can be reliably
served with the presently estimated water requirement. Construction of
Segala Mider Dam would provide some storage and permit more effective use of
available water supplies. With the dam in place, available water supply
could be more effectively managed by utilizing rainfall and accretions to
the river downstream from Segala Mider Dam to satisfy crop water requirements
to the maximum extent possible prior to making releases from storage.
3.28      With Segala Mider Dam, there would be adequate water available
on a timely basis to irrigate an average of 20,800 ha (83.0%) in the wet
season. About one-fourth of the project area would be utilized in the dry
season (6,250 ha) and on the average about 3,800 ha (61%) of that area can be
assured adequate water. The project operation studies indicate that in about
10 of the 20 years analyzed, the water supply would be adequate to fully
irrigate the entire 25,000 ha in the wet season and the 6,250 ha in the dry



- 22 -
season. The project operations would be based upon the "golongan" or rota-
tional system to assure equitable distribution of available water supplies
from year to year to all of the subproject area. It is expected that the
entire 25,000 ha would be planted each wet season, and 6,250 ha each dry
season because of the 50% or better probability that a full irrigation supply
can be obtained. In those years when it cannot be supplied, the nonirrigated
area would produce at least the equivalent of a rain-fed crop.
3.29      Most of the lands in the Way Seputih subproject area are highly
permeable, with the mean percolation rate of the area being about 10 mm/day.
Ccnsequently, design capacities for the main, secondary and tertiary canal
systems are relatively high (para 2.19). The area topography is undulating
with a well incised natural drainage pattern. In the course of detailed
design of the irrigation system, studies would be conducted of the potential
for damming many of the natural drains to raise the water table of surrounding
project lands. If found feasible, this would increase the area that can be
reliably served in both the wet and dry seasons by reducing the depth of the
surface horizon that must be saturated prior to puddling the rice paddys,
reduce the design capacity of the irrigation system, and increase production
and the economic rate of return of the project.
3.30      Way Sekampung.  The water supply for this subproject is derived
from three primary and one secondary sources. The primary sources are Way
Sekampung (Sekampung River) and two of its tributaries, Way Raman and
Way Batanghari. The secondary source is return flows accruing to the two
tributaries above the Raman and Batanghari weirs from the operations
of the Way Sekampung and the Punggur Utara subsystems. While the stream-
flow of the Sekampung can be measured or synthesized from historical records,
the combined natural and return flow of the Raman and Batanghari are inti-
mately tied to the diversions from the Sekampung (Argoguruh Weir) and the
application of those diversions to Way Sekampung and Punggur Utara subsystem
lands. This obviously introduces a complexity in project operations that is
most suited to computer analysis.
3.31      The water supply studies for the Way Sekampung subproject involved
an intricate application of computer analyses due to the necessity to
handle three headworks facilities, the operation of two of which (Raman and
Batanghari) depend upon the mode of operation of the third (Argoguruh) as
well as recapture of return flows.
3.32      The present irrigation system is capable of serving about 32,000
ha in the Way Sekampung complex, although dependable run-of-the-river water
supplies are adequate for about 46,000 ha. With storage of 400 MCM at
Batutegi Dam, water availability would be increased to serve 73,700 ha
including 65,100 ha in the four subsystems, as well as the 8,600 ha Bekri
area. The average area receiving a full irrigation water supply would be
70,000 ha (95% of the area planted) in the wet season and 22,600 ha (88% of
the area planted) in the dry season. In 15 of the 20 years analyzed, a full
supply could be provided to the entire 73,700 ha in the wet season and
25,800 ha in the dry season. In the 5 years out of 20 when a full water
supply cannot be furnished, the equivalent of a rainfed crop would be
achieved on the non-irrigated lands.



- 23 -
3.33      Water quality for all of the Lampung projects is excellent.  Except
during the low flow periods of the dry season there is relatively little
biological deterioration of the water. Chemical quality is excellent for
irrigation use with total dissolved solids generally less than 100 mg/l.
Sedimentation rates for the catchment areas above Segala Mider and Batutegi
dams have been estimated at 1,700 t/km sq, which represents a very low
denudation rate of 1.3 mm/yr because of the good forest and grass covers.
3.34      A compilation of simulated streamflow data at key locations for
the Way Seputih and Way Sekampung subprojects is presented in Table 3.3.
Status of Engineering
3.35      Kali Progo Subproject.  Consultants have been conducting field
surveys and preparing detailed designs on a continuing basis in order to
furnish designs and construction drawings required for the annual GOI con-
struction funding capability. Additional surveys and detailed designs are
required for works included in the Kali Progo subproject. Required surveys
would be completed by the summer of 1979 for all but the drainage works.
Designs would not be completed until the spring of 1981 although construction
will continue uninterruptedly from the present.
3.36      For the tertiary systems, surveys including aerial photography
and mapping would be initiated in late 1978 and require about two years
for completion. Detailed design by local consultants would require about
3 1/2 years starting about six months after the in:itiation of surveys.
Feasibility study of the Sermo and Sambiroto dams would be initiated in late
1978 and would require about 18 months.
3.37      Way Seputih Subproject.  A draft "Reconnaissance Report on the
Land and Water Resources of Lampung Province" was issued in January 1977,
and a draft feasibility report on the Way Seputih subproject was published
in late 1977. Designs and cost estimates have been completed to feasibility
level for both the irrigation system and the secondl stage dam. Preparation
of detailed designs, construction drawings and tender documents would require
a period of about 12 months and construction could start in the 1979 dry
season. Further site investigations and detailed designs for Segala Mider
Dam would require about 18 months. The second phase of dam construction
could be initiated in about two years.
3.38      Way Sekampung Subproject.  Reconnaissance and feasibility study
and design of this subproject was carried out concurrently with those for
the Way Seputih subproject discussed in para. 3.37. Designs and cost estimates
have been completed at feasibility level for the irrigation system. Detailed
design would require about 18 months, although the first construction activity
could commence in the 1979 dry season. Construction of the Bekri system and
the diversion tunnel for Batutegi dam could be initiated in about two years,
and Batutegi dam proper in about three years.
Implementation Schedules
3.39      The Project would be implemented over a period of six years with
the second stage features discussed earlier proposed to be initiated during



- 24 -
the course of that period. The Kali Progo construction activity would
involve six vears, during which the feasibility studies for the Kali Serang
Dams would be completed in about 18 months. Construction on the Way Seputih
irrigation system would require 4 years and on the Way Sekampung irrigation
system about 6 years. Detailed design of the second stage dams for these two
subprojects would require 1-1/2 and 2 years, with construction being ini-
tiated in the second and third years of irrigation system construction,
respectively. Implementation schedules for these three subprojects are shown
in Figures 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3.
3.40      The schedules for detailed design of the Way Kandis and Way Ketibung
areas; for photography, mapping, soil surveys and additional studies for the
Rumbia, Dumoga and Gumbosa areas; and for feasibility studies of Sermo and
Sambiroto darns, are shown in Figure 3.4.
Cost Estimates
3.41      The total project cost is estimated at US$216.0 million, of which
US$115.9 million (54%) is the foreign exchange component. Because of the
tax exempt st:atus of the implementing agency, the costs do not include
provision for local, provincial or national taxes. The civil works quantities
for Kali Progo were extrapolated from a survey of structures, main, secondary
and tertiary canals. To obtain a detailed count of all structures and
required work would necessitate dewatering the entire system. Since Kali
Progo rehabilitation is presently an ongoing program, under which a small
amount of works are completed each year, this is not possible.  Civil works
costs for the Way Seputih and Way Sekampung subprojects are based upon the
consultants feasibility studies. Those studies did not include detailed
designs although the quality of field surveys and data was good. For that
portion of the work that involves rehabilitation or enlargement, dewatering
of existing irrigation systems was not feasible. For those reasons, a
physical contingency of 25% was applied to all civil works and right-of-way
costs for the project. Physical contingencies of 10%, and 20%, respectively
were applied to vehicles and equipment, and services. Base costs are
expressed in April 1978 prices. The cost estimates also include an allowance
for expected price increases during project execution (34% of base cost plus
physical contingencies), which are based on the following annual inflation
rates projected from recent trends noted in civil works contracts in the
irrigation sector in Indonesia:
(a) civil works - 14% in 1978, 12% in 1979, 10% in 1980, and 8%
beyond 1980;
(b) equipment and services - 8% in 1978-1980 and 7% beyond 1980.
Engineering and administration costs amount to about 6% of the base cost
estimate. Costs of consulting services are based on recent contracts signed
in Indonesia for similar services with local and foreign firms. The direct
costs of foreign consulants (salaries, overseas allowance and company over-
head and fee) amount to about US$6,500 per man-month. Including indirect
costs (travel, housing, office and miscellaneous expenses), the total cost
would be about US$8,000 per man-month. By comparison, total costs of local



- 25 -
consultants amount to about US$1,200 per man-montlh. Detailed project cost
estimates are summarized in Annex 1. The construrtion cost estimate for
the total Way Seputih and Way Sekampung subprojects, including the second
stage, and for the Way Kandis and Way Ketibung subprojects and details of
expected price increases are also presented in Annex 1.
Table 3.4: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
---- (Rp million) ---   --- (US$ million) ---        %
Advisory team /a               70      260     330      0.2     0.6      0.8      80
Kali Progo                  8,500   8,350  16,850    20.5    20.1    40.6        50
Way Seputih                 2,550   3,070   5,620       6.1     7.4    13.5       55
Way Sekampung              13,170  15,150  28,320    31.7    36.5    68.2         54
Investigations and
designs                     820   2,450   3,270       2.0     5.9      7.9     75
Base cost estimate    25,110  29,280  54,390    60.5    70.5   131.0          54
Physical contingencies    5,660   6,700  12,360    13.7    16.1    29.8          54
Expected price
increases               10,750  12,170  22,920    2:5.9    29.3    55.2        54
Total Project Cost    41,520  48,150  89,670   1CI0.1   115.9   216.0         54
/a  Includes US$100,000 for vehicles and equipment.
Financing
3.42      The proposed Bank loan of US$140.0 million, would finance all
of the project's foreign exchange cost (US$115.9 million) and local costs
of US$24.1 million. It would cover about 65% of total project costs, and
24% of local costs. GOI would provide in a timely manner, the remaining
Rp 31,540 million (US$76.0 million) out of annual. budget appropriations.
Procurement /1
3.43      Except for 15 vehicles needed to ensure an efficient start up of
consultants activities, which would be procured through local competi-
tive quotations, and up to 41 additional vehicles which may be procured by
international shopping, vehicles and equipment fcor construction and operation
/1 All costs in this section of the report include contingencies.



- 26 -
(US$3.2 million) would be procured under international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A preference equal to
15% of the c.i.f. cost of the imported goods or the customs duty, whichever
is lower, would be extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evalua-
tion of bids. Vehicles for consultants and items of equipment costing less
than US$10,000 each and limited to a total of US$500,000, which are not suit-
able for international competitive bidding, would be purchased through normal
Government procurement procedures which have been found to be acceptable to
the Bank. There are sufficient suppliers of such goods to ensure adequate
competition. All contracts for vehicles and equipment exceeding US$100,000 in
value would be submitted to the Bank for review before bidding and award.
Services for mapping (US$2.7 million) would be procured following local com-
petitive bidding orocedures which are acceptable to the Bank. There are enough
mapping contractors in Indonesia to assure adequate competit[on.
3.44      The rehabilitation and construction of irrigation structures,
canals and drains at Kali Progo are scattered over a wide area and time
span, and would not be of interest to international contractors. It would be
impracticable to group these project works into packages large enough to
attract international construction interests. The work is spread over many
small, interconnected service units with a considerable variety of work among
the units. The preparation of detailed designs, construction drawings and
specifications can be most efficiently accomplished by concentrating on the
work in each service unit and combining several units in each construction
contract. These works (US$47 million) would therefore be carried out
following local competitive bidding or, in the case of tertiary and quaternary
canals and drains, through the INPRES rural works program.
3.45      The civil works construction activities for the Way Seputih and
Way Sekampung subprojects in Lampung are somewhat simlar to those of Kali
Progo. However, certain components of the works are amenable to concen-
trated work activities. For the Way Seputih subproject, the headworks, silt
trap and primary canal, and for the Way Sekampung subproject all of the
headworks (including weir, feeder canal and silt trap at Argoguruh), and all
of the primary canals fall into this category, and contracts for their
construction would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Qualified local contractors
wDuld be given a preference of 7-1/2% in the evaluation of bids. These
works (US$38 million) would be grouped into about four contracts of rela-
tively equal size. The remaining civil works (US$33 million) for the Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung subprojects would be carried out following local
competitive biidding or, in the case of tertiary and quaternary canals and
drains, througlh the INPRES rural works program.
3.46      Local contracting procedures have been reviewed under earlier
projects and are acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained from GOI
that: (a) except for tertiary networks, the works would be combined into a
number of suitable contracts (about two thirds of the total estimated cost
of such works in lots estimated to cost a minimum of US$500,000 each, and
the remainder in lots estimated to cost a minimum of US$150,000 each) that
would enable large local contractors and joint ventures of small local firms
to bid within the categories or classes for which Government regulations
require them to be prequalified; (b) to minimize late construction starts



- 27 -
early in the dry season, invitations to bid for such contracts would be
issued as bid documents are completed, and bids would be received and
processed without waiting for the project implementation budget (DIP) to be
signed but contracts would be awarded only after the DIP is approved; and
(c) price escalation clauses, which are not normal:Ly provided in local civil
works contracts, would be included in contracts extending beyond one year.
For contracts estimated to cost US$1,000,000 and above, documents would be
submitted to the Bank for review before tendering and award.
Disbursements
3.47      To avoid interruption of current planning activities under UK
bilateral assistance underway in the Dumoga and Gumbasa areas, which
terminated in April 1978, it is proposed that retroactive financing of about
US$70,000 of consultants' services after March 31, 1978 would be allowed.
3.48      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the
foreign exchange cost of training and of directly imported vehicles and
equipment, 95% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment,
65% for locally procured imported equipment, excluding vehicles, and 40% of
total expenditures for locally procured vehicles. Disbursements for both
foreign and local consultants would be at 100% of total expenditures, to
encourage the use of local consultants and to enable the executing agencies
to engage consultants expeditiously, since prior budgetary allocations
would not be needed. Disbursements for tertiary system construction would
be at 100% of costs for structures, with no disbursements against earthworks.
Disbursements for all other civil works would be at the rate of 70% of total
costs. Disbursements for tertiary structures would be made only if the
withdrawal applications are accompanied by a certificate from the site
engineer stating that the tertiary and quaternary canals and drains in the
tertiary block had also been constructed. Disbursements for mapping would
be at the rate of 100% of total expenditures. In consultation with the
Bank, savings under the project would be used to finance similar additional
works in the project area. The estimated schedule of expenditures on the
project, the disbursement schedule and allocations of loan proceeds are
presented in Annex 1.
Accounts and Audits
3.49      Assurances have been obtained from the Government that PIBD would:
(a) maintain separate accounts for the project; (b) engage auditors acceptable
to the Bank to audit these accounts; and (c) submit to the Bank, within six
months of the close of each fiscal year, audited financial statements,
together with the auditor's comments and opinions.
Environmental Effects
3.50      The Kali Progo, Way Seputih and Way Sekampung subprojects would
have only minor physical environmental impacts. All three areas have been
under cultivation/irrigation for many years and the basic land use would not
change appreciably in character, although the overall quality of agricultural
activity would improve following implementation of the project works. There
would be some temporary disruption of the flora arnd fauna cycles in the



- 28 -
Table 3.3: STREAMFLOW DATA - LAMPUNG PROJECTS
Mean
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  April  May  June  July  Aug.  Sep.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.   annual
---------------------------------- (cu m/sec) ---------------------------------
Way Seputih
Segala/Mider Damsite
Mean                      14.7  14.8  14.7   14.3  11.5   7.6  5.5   4.0   3.7   4.1   6.4  10.9           9.4
80% reliability /a        10.4  10.7  11.4   11.3   9.0   5.9  3.6   2.1   1.2   1.2   2.7   7.3           7.9
Ajibaru weir /b
Mean                      22.4  23.2  22.5   19.2  12.2   6.9  4.5   2.1   2.7   3.3   6.2  15.5    11.7
80% reliability /a        16.8  19.5  19.3   13.4  10.3   4.5  1.4   1.0   1.0   1.0   2.0  12.0    10.4
Total. /c
Mean                      37.1  38.0  37.2   33.5  23.7  14.5 10.0   6.1   6.4   7.4  12.6  26.4    21.1
80,% reliability /a       27.2  30.2  30.7   24.7  19.3  10.4  5.0   3.1   2.2   2.2   4.7  19.3    18.3
Way Sekampung
Batutegi Dam site
Mean                      31.0  34.7  34.4   32.3  26.1  19.7 13.9  11.6  10.8  13.6  18.1  24.0    22.5
80% reliability /a        20.3  23.3  25.8   24.5  18.1  12.0 10.4   8.3   4.8   5.1   8.8  13.4    18.8
Argoguruh weir /b
Mean                      71.7  91.9  83.8   75.8  53.7  36.7 23.7  17.4  16.8  19.2  27.0  44.9    46.9
80% reliability /a        50.3  76.6  67.7   40.9  39.0  26.0 13.5  10.8   7.7   9.5  16.1  28.6    40.9
TotaL /c
Mean                     102.7 126.6 118.2  108.1  79.8  56.4 37.6  29.0  27.6  32.8  45.1  68.9    69.4
80% reliability /a        70.6  99.9  93.5   65.4  57.1  38.0 23.9  19.1  12.5  14.6  24.9  42.0    59.7
Way Kandis
Kandis Weir
Mean                       5.8   7.9   7.4    6.5   3.6   2.1  1.0   0.7   0.9   0.8   1.4   3.3           3.5
80% reliability /a         2.9   6.0   5.1    3.8   2.0   1.0  0.4   0.3   0.2   0.3   0.9   1.5           2.9
Way Ketibung
Ketibung Weir
Mean                       5.1   6.4   6.6    5.3   2.8   2.1  1.2   0.8   0.9   0.8   1.4   2.8           3.0
80% reliability /a         2.2   5.1   4.4    3.5   1.3   0.8  0.4   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.6   1.1           2.5
/a  Determined as 80% reliability by months, except mean annual.
/b Incremental flow between diversion weir and upstream storage facility.
/c  Sum of flow at damsite and incremental flow between damsite and diversion weir.



- 29 -
immediate vicinity of the construction activity. Because of the tropical
character of the area, however, disturbed areas would rapidly be restored to
their natural condition without any special effort being made. The quality
of life in the project area would be significantly improved for the human
population of the area with the project as opposedi to a continuing degradation
in quality of life without the project.
3.51      There are no known unique environmental factors in any of the
areas. Physical damage to the environment due to the construction activity
would be minimal and short lived. The impact upon the human environment
would be positive in every instance. Village water supplies would be
enhanced. Schistosomiasis does not exist in the project areas, and mosquito
breeding areas that currently exist would be reduced as a result of the
drainage involved in the project works. In their use of pesticides, farmers
would have to exercise care not to contaminate fish ponds or sources of
domestic water supply.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
4.01      The DGWRD, which is within the Ministry of Public Works, consists
of six directorates (the Directorates of Planning and Programming, Rivers,
Swamps, Irrigation, Irrigation Equipment, and Hydraulic Engineering) and a
number of executive bodies, prominent among which is PROSIDA, which has been
the executing agency for all or part of seven Bank Group-assisted projects,
as well as one component of the proposed Irrigation Project XI. PROSIDA has
developed into one of the most capable construction agencies in Indonesia but
DGWRD feels that PROSIDA's management could be overburdened if it were asked
to take on the present large project, in addition to its other major tasks.
Moreover, such a move would lead to an unbalanced distribution of staff
between PROSIDA and the other agencies of DGWRD.
4.02      The project components have been planned and prepared by the
Directorate of Irrigation (DOI). DOI, in coordination with Provincial
Departments of Public Works, is responsible for the planning, design, con-
struction and operation of irrigation projects throughout Indonesia. It is
already involved in Bank-assisted work, constructing irrigation facilities at
Sungai Dareh (3,500 ha), and studying the feasibility of nine small to
medium-sized irrigation projects under Loan 1435-IND. DOI has also had many
years experience in executing projects financed with bilateral assistance
from the United States, Netherlands, Japanese, British and Canadian Govern-
ments and multilateral assistance through the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
DOI is the largest directorate within DGWRD, and employs over 300 professional
and technical staff of whom most are engineers. While DOI in its present
form would be technically capable of carrying out the project, there is some
doubt as to whether it would be able to attract and retain the additional
staff needed.   For these reasons, a new executive body, Badan Pelaksana
Proyek Induk Irigasi dengan bantuan Bank Dunia (PIBD), is in the process of
being established to implement the project and possibly future projects.



- 30 -
While organizationally distinct from DOI, PIBD would share its management,
facilities and many of its staff with DOI (Figure 4.2). The Director of DOI
would become jointly Project Manager of PIBD, while the heads of the Irriga-
ti.on Planning and Construction Development Sub-Directorates would become
jcintly Deputy Project Managers.
4.03      PIBD, with headquarters in Jakarta, 5 ould assume overall responsi-
bility for the project, and would handle the day-to-day operations. In the
field, site offices already exist and subproject managers are on hand at all
the proposed construction sites. Generally, the Heads of the Provincial
Public Works Departments have administrative responsibility for individual
works being constructed in their province, while the DGWRD subproject or site
manager handles technical operations. Consultants would be attached to all
site offices. Detailed design would be executed at the site office and
reviewed by the PIBD in Jakarta. To undertake this project, PIBD would
require at least 20 additional professional staff immediately, plus more
in future years as the project is implemented. While a few experienced
personnel could be reassigned from within DGWRD and some suitable staff
recruited externally, a large consultant input would be necessary to imple-
ment the proposed works. An advisory team (para. 4.08) would also be engaged
tco assist PIBD in its overall management of the project.
4.04      The creation of a new executive body to implement the project has
been taken as the only practical solution to the constraints faced by the
DGWRD in modifying its organizational structure to cope with an expanding
program of work: and in attracting and retaining staff of the necessary calibre.
Executive bodie!s can be established by the Minister of Public Works (whereas
establishment of a new Directorate or Subdirectorate within DOI would
require the assent of the President, a very time-consuming procedure). The
Minister can also establish terms and conditions of employment within
executive bodies above the level obtaining in the line agencies and thereby
attract and retain the skilled staff needed for complex projects such as
this. By the use of joint appointments between PIBD and DOI, the flow of
information and the coordination of work assignments between the executive
bodies and the DOI can be maintained. The DGWRD recognizes that the
establishment of a new executive body, in addition to those now existing, is
not an optimal organizational arrangement. Discussions are continuing
within the Government and with the Bank on an organizational structure which
would, amongst other things, provide for the greater integration of activi-
ties under Bank Group-assisted projects with those of the DGWRD as a whole.
4.05      Assurances have been obtained that the Government would, before
making any new appointment to the position of Project Manager of PIBD, inform
the Bank of the names, qualifications and experience of the persons considered
for such appointment and would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Government on the qualifications and experience of
such persons; and also, that the Government would cause the PIBD to be
adequately staffed at all times with competent and qualified personnel.
Consultants, Advisors and Training
4.06      The project provides for expatriate consultants to execute detailed
design, prepare construction drawings and tender documents and supervise
construction at Kali Progo, Way Seputih and Way Sekampung. It also provides



- 31 -
consultants for the detailed design and preparation of tender documents for
the proposed second stage works at Way Seputih and Way Sekampung, and at Way
Kandis and Way Ketibung, and for studies of the Rumbia, Dumoga and Gumbasa
areas. The project provides for local consultants to execute the detailed
design of tertiary systems, supervise their construction and to provide local
counterpart assistance to the expatriate consultants.
4.07      Under the project, consultant responsibilities would be expanded
over those under recent projects which PROSIDA has implemented. The areas of
new responsibilities include construction drawings; tender and contract
documents preparation; day-to-day and overall construction supervision and
liaison with contractors; and preparation of monthly and other periodic
reports required by the Bank and by the Government.
4.08      The project also includes funding for three advisors to the PIDB on
administration and finance, on contracts and procurement, and operation and
maintenance. The assistance would be for a period of two years each with the
appointment of the operation and maintenance advisor deferred for about one
year following project initiation. An additional advisor to the DGWRD's
Foreign Aid Administration Division on loan administration and project operation
would also be provided. For reasons of efficiency, cost effectiveness and
coordination it has been agreed that the four advisors would be obtained from
a consultant organization with capability to provide additional back-up
assistance to the advisors.
4.09      To avoid project implementation delays associated with the engage-
ment of consultants, the DGWRD will retain the present consultants working
under the bilateral assistance program at Kali PFrogo and the Sulawesi sub-
projects. Assurances have been obtained from GCI that:
(a)  advisors to PIBD on (i) administration and finance; (ii) contracts
and procurement; (iii) operation and maintenance; and (iv) an
advisor to the DGWRD on loan administration and project operation,
would be engaged by December 31, 1978;
(b) all other expatriate and counterpart consultants would be engaged
by November 30, 1978;
(c)  all local consultants for tertiary development would be engaged by
November 30, 1979; and
(d) all consultants and advisors would have qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employmenit acceptable to the Bank.
4.10      Overseas training would be provided through contractual arrange-
ments with the foreign consultants engaged for the several subprojects. It
would include short-term foreign academic training on specific aspects of
design, construction and operations, home officie work-training assignments,
and study tours. Details of the training activities would be identified
following engagement of consultants. Consulting services and training to be
provided under the project are shown in Table 4.1.



- 32 -
Table 4.1: CONSULTING SERVICES AND TRAINING
Field
investi-
Total  Consultants   gation  Training  Foreign  Local
_______----  (US$'000) -------------   (man-months)
Advisory Team               700        700          -            -       90        -
Kali Progo
Construction            2,700      2,100        100         500       215      300
]:nvestigation and
design                  700        500        200           -        60       -
Subtotal          3,400      2,600        300         500       275      300
Way Seputih
Construction            1,100        800        100         200        80      120
Investigation and
design                1,300      1,100        200           -        90     230
Subtotal          2,400      1,900        300         200       170      350
Way Sekampung
Construction            5,900      5,400        200         300       350   1,850
Investigation and
design                3,900     3,500         400           -      320      700
Subtotal          9,800      8,900        600         300       670   2,550
Dumoga and GumbaLsa
Investigation and
design                  600        600          -           -       60       80
Total            16,900    14,700       1,200       1,000    1,265   3.280
4.11      An assurance has also been obtained that GOI would: (a) cause DGWRD to
appoint a panel of consultants, whose qualifications and experience would be
acceptable to the Bank, to review the planning, design and construction of
Segala Mider and Batutegi Dams (and any additional dams as may be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank) throughout the period of planning, design
and construction of such dams, to ensure the quality of their designs and
safety; and (b) cause such panel to be consulted prior to the execution of
all major changes in the design or construction of any of the said dams.



- 33 -
Agricultural Support Services
4.12      In order to attain the full future benefits of the proposed projects,
agricultural support services need to be strengthened in the project areas.
Since many prcblems in agricultural supporting services, however, extend
across the entire agricultural sector, and must be solved on a sector-wide
basis, this project is unsuitable to provide total solutions for them.
Nevertheless, GOI has several ongoing programs which it would expand at Kali
Progo and in Lampung. The Bank is assisting GOI in upgrading some of these
programs, such as the extension service through the National Food Crops
Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND), medium-term credit services through Credit
480-IND, and the proposed Rural Credit Project. The Bank is also discus-
sing with GOI the introduction of several other programs to improve agri-
cultural supporting services, such as building v:illage fertilizer stores,
upgrading the management and operation of farmer cooperatives, and a second
agricultural research project. Domestic fertilizer production would continue
to grow with assistance from the Bank Group (Credlit 193-IND and Loan 1080-IND),
and the fertilizer distribution project (Loan 1139-IND) would aid fertilizer
distribution from the national to the district level.
4.13      The MOA, BRI and DGC would supply agricultural supporting services
in the project areas. The recently introduced NEFCE project would intensify
and expand extension services by reorganizing and increasing the number
of field extension workers to provide one for each 1,700 farm families.
The PPLs would be supervised by middle level extension workers (PPMs), and
subject matter specialists (PPSs) at the district level would support and
train both the PPLs and PPMs. The PPSs would also conduct adaptive research
at the district and subdistrict levels. The BIMKS Secretariat, within the
MOA, would expand the BIMAS program (subsidized rredit to cover seed, ferti-
lizers, pesticides, crop spraying and cost of living expenses) in all project
areas. BRI, which provides credit for the BIMAS program, would increase its
field staff at existing village unit offices, and where necessary, build and
staff new village unit offices.  Besides providing farmers with production
credit through the village unit, BRI would also supply them longer term
credit (three to five years) for the purchase of draft animals, ploughs and
other required farm equipment and for land clearing and levelling. Where
necessary, the DGC would establish BUUD/KUDs and village fertilizer stores
level. The BUUD/KUDs would be equipped with paddy drying floors, grain
warehouses, and rice milling facilities. By purchasing paddy from farmers,
they would also undertake their usual task of maintaining GOI's paddy
support price at the farm level.
4.14      At full development, demand for fertilizer would rise from its
current level of some 6,000 tons to 18,000 tons/year at Kali Progo; from
1,600 tons to 7,000 tons/year at Way Seputih; and from 7,000 tons to
27,000 tons/year at Way Sekampung. At present, f-armers use mainly urea
(80%), and triple superphosphate (20%). This ratio would continue under the
project. While the existing fertilizer supply channels could handle the
increased demand, subdistrict roads would require repairing and upgrading to
help improve the distribution efficiency at the village level. This would be
done under the INPRES program. The annual demand for certified rice seed



- 34 -
wculd be 650 tons at Kali Progo, 350 tons at Way Seputih, and 950 tons at Way
Sekampung at full development. To meet these targets, the quality of local
seed growers' production would be upgraded under the provincial agricultural
service's ongoing work. After project completion, production credit require-
ments would also rise. The annual project area short-term production credit
needs would be around Rp 2,100 million at Kali Progo; Rp 1,000 million at Way
Seputih; and Rp 3,200 million at Way Sekampung. At present farmers receive
estimated annual BIMAS funds of Rp 1,100 million at Kali Progo; Rp 210 million
at Way Seputih, and Rp 600 million at Way Sekampung. While BRI would
be able to supply these additional funds, it would have to increase its field
staff, and, particularly at Lampung, build and staff new village units, to
handle the increased credit flows and avoid delays in processing and issuing
the credits. The BRI has been gradually improving its services to farmers,
and it is expected to continue doing this, and provide the additional field
staff and facilities. To ensure that farmers' needs for advice, credit, and
agricultural inputs would be provided in the project areas, assurances have
been obtained that GOI would ensure that adequate credit, agricultural
extension services and inputs (including fertilizers, agricultural chemicals
and certified seeds) are made available to farmers in all project areas and
assist in the provision of drying and storage facilities.
4.15      The extension service, in cooperation with the Provincial Irri-
gation Services and Ministry of Home Affairs, would form farmer groups
(water-user associations) for extension, production planning, water manage-
meent, and tertiary and quaternary unit construction in each tertiary unit.
The quaternary unit, some 20 to 40 farmers, would be the group's basic unit.
As they would be vital in synchronizing crop calendars and water supplies,
assurances have been obtained from GOI that a water-user association would
be formed for each tertiary unit in the project areas to participate in
the unit's construction and to take over its operation and maintenance after
project completion.
Operation and Maintenance
4.:L6     PIBD would be responsible for the operation and maintenance (O&M)
of tertiary systems and primary and secondary irrigation works in Kali
Progo, Way Seputih and Way Sekampung subprojects during construction. For
one year after construction, PIBD would continue to operate and maintain the
works to ensure that all defects are corrected, and needed repairs are made
before the systems are formally turned over to the Special District Yogyakarta
(Kali Progo) and Lampung Provincial Irrigation Services (Way Seputih, Way
Sekampung).  Then the Provincial Irrigation Services would assume responsi-
bility for operating and maintaining the primary and secondary systems.
The! responsibility for operating and maintaining tertiary systems of about
150 ha each would shift to tertiary water-user associations in these systems,
which would collect 40-50 kg of paddy per ha from all beneficiaries to meet
the full O&M costs. This is currently being done on a number of pilot
tertiary systems and, in nearly all cases, the systems are being adequately
maintained.



- 35 -
4.17      Although there has been considerable improvement in O&M services
in the completed and ongoing Bank-assisted irrigation projects in Indonesia,
there is still a need for more trained staff, as well as an increase in O&M
budgetary allocations for the main and secondary systems. The amounts of O&M
funds received in FY77/78 by the various irrigation subprojects were in line
with those agreed upon during negotiations of Loans 1434/1435-IND, and more
than half of the funds were released before the start of the wet season in
line with agreements reached with the Bank. For FY78/79, GOI has increased
the O&M allocation for rehabilitated systems from Rp 3,200 to Rp 3,500/ha and
is considering the employment of additional O&M staff. Assurances have been
obtained from GOI that: (a) adequate O&M funds, acdjusted to keep pace with
inflation and actual needs, would be allocated in future years for all
Bank-assisted irrigation projects; (b) GOI would take the necessary steps to
ensure that at least half of the budgeted O&M funds would be released to the
subprojects by August 15 of each year and the balance, in equal quarterly
installments thereafter, until the total amounts are fully released; (c) to
upgrade the standard of O&M services and to effectively utilize the available
funds, GOI would progressively increase the number of qualified O&M personnel
in the Bank-assisted projects until the additional numbers to be established
by GOI in consultation with the Bank are employed; (d) GOI would inform the
Bank by December 31 of each year of the proposed number of O&M personnel and
per hectare O&M budget for each subproject; and (e) by June 1 of each follow-
ing year, it would submit the approved O&M budget and by October 1, the
staffing provisions.
Monitoring
4.18      A program to monitor benefits accruing from the Bank-assisted irri-
gation and drainage works, together with other social aspects, is currently
being implemented under Loan 1100-IND. As that program expands it would
include this project with additional required fundis provided under a future
Bank-assisted project. An assurance has been obtained that the Government
would ensure that the survey and evaluation of the economic and social
benefits of the project would be carried out by the survey and evaluation
services included in the Sixth Irrigation Project.
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01      The project would increase agricultural production by providing
and improving irrigation and drainage on potential and existing irrigable land,
including land under secondary crops. The changes are discussed under the
respective project areas.
Present Cropping Patterns
5.02      Kali Progo.  Deficiencies in the existing irrigation and drainage
systems in the subproject area have an adverse effect on the timeliness of
operations, which affects both yields and cropping intensity. About 2,000 ha
along the coast are also frequently subjected to floods. Paddy is the pre-
dominant crop of the area. During the wet season paddy is irrigated on
30,500 ha and in the dry season on 14,100 ha. Additionally, some 19,100 ha



- 36 -
of other crops are partially irrigated or grown on residual moisture dur-
ing the dry season. Soybean is an important secondary crop in the area, and
in this report has been used to represent a group of medium to low value
crops such as groundnuts, soybean, corn and sweet potato. While soybean
covers 12,500 of the 19,100 ha, vegetables and tobacco are planted on the
remaining 6,600 ha.
5.03      In general, wet-season paddy is grown between November and June.
Depending on the start of the monsoon, farmers usually transplant between
early November and end of December. They harvest over some ten weeks, April
to mid-June. Farmers grow dry-season paddy between April and October,
transplanting in April-June and harvesting in August-October. All paddy is
transplanted from field nurseries onto previously puddled land. Secondary
crops are grown from late-April to mid-October. Most secondary crops suffer
moisture stress and are mainly dependent on rainfall and residual moisture
from the preceding crop. While paddy farmers have planted mainly HYV rice
in the irrigated areas, large infestations of brown plant hoppers have forced
farmers to recently plant considerable areas of local varieties in the wet-
season.
5.04      Way Seputih.  During the wet season, irrigated rice is grown on
12,500 ha and upland paddy on 4,000 ha. The remaining area is either
fallow (1,500 ha) or under cassava (7,000 ha). In the dry-season irrigated
rice is grown on 2,000 ha. Soybean (1,300 ha) is one of the main secondary
crops, and is used to represent all other secondary crops grown.
5.05      Wet-season paddy is grown between November and April.  Farmers grow
dry-season pa,ddy between April and September, transplanting in April/May and
harvesting in August/September. Both traditional and HYVs are grown. The
most common ELYVs are Pelita and IR26 and IR34. Most secondary crops are
dependent on rainfall and residual moisture from the wet-season crop.
Farmers usually plant cassava near the end of the dry-season (October), and
harvest it some ten months later.
5.06      Way Sekampung.  With the exception of Punggur Utara, the existing
systems have deteriorated due to lack of maintenance, resulting in delayed
operations an,d reduced yields and cropping intensity. In the wet season,
53,200 ha are planted to paddy, although only 32,400 ha receive irrigation,
and the balan,ce is made up of upland paddy (20,400 ha) and rainfed paddy
(400 ha). The remaining 20,500 ha are under cassava, which is usually
planted near the end of the dry season. About 6,800 ha of paddy are irri-
gated in the dry season. Additionally some 4,000 ha of secondary crops are
also grown in the dry season. The rice varieties grown are similar to those
in the Way Seputih project area. Wet-season paddy is grown between November
and April, and dry-season paddy between April and September. Secondary crops
are normally planted in the dry season following the wet-season paddy crop.
Future Cropping Patterns
5.07      In the absence of the project there would be no significant change
in cropping patterns. The anticipated improved and expanded extension
services, coupled with the increased use of agricultural inputs would increase



- 37 -
paddy yields in these areas, but this increase in turn would be reduced as a
result of continuous deterioration in the irrigation system. Under the
project, and with the completion of the dams, padLdy land would increase
through conversion of land presently unserviceable by the existing irrigation
systems. Improvement of irrigation and drainage facilities would all give
farmers better control of crop calendars.
5.08       Kali Progo.  Without the project, cropping patterns are expected to
remain as now. Due to better farming practices and varietal improvement,
however, yields would increase by about 10% by 1989. Under the project,
the area for wet-season irrigated paddy is expected to increase from 30,500 ha
to 34,700 ha, and the dry-season paddy from 14,100 ha to 28,700 ha. The
more reliable irrigation water supply would give farmers better control of
crop calendars and allow them to grow two secondary crops during the dry
season in some of the areas. The total production of paddy from the area is
projected to reach about 285,300 tons.  The overall cropping intensity would
increase from 196% to 222%.
5.09       Way Seputih.  In the absence of the project, there would be no
increase in the wet and dry-season irrigated paddy areas.  In view of the
rehabilitation under Credit 127-IND, the wet-season irrigated paddy is expected
to reach 3.6 ton/ha and dry season paddy 4.0 ton/ha. Farmers would complete
the clearing of the presently uncultivated area (1,500 ha) and plant cassava.
The annual cropping intensity would increase to 1L13%.
5.10       Under the project and with the completion of the Segala Mider dam
the paddy land would increase to 25,000 ha in the wet-season of which some
20,800 would be irrigated and 4,200 rainfed paddy grown in bunded fields. In
the dry season 3,800 ha of paddy would be irrigated.  There would also be
6,000 ha of soybean and other secondary crops grown in the dry season. The
area under HYVs is expected to increase to more than 80%. With a more
assured irrigation water supply, the annual overall cropping intensity would
be 139%.
5.11       Way Sekampung.  Without the project, varietal improvements and
better farming practices would increase wet-season irrigated and rainfed
paddy yields about 10% by 1989. There would be no significant change in
cropping patterns and overall cropping intensity.
5.12       Under the project and with the completi'on of the Batutegi dam,
there would be an appreciable increase in the wet: and dry-season irrigated
paddy areas. The wet-season irrigated paddy area would increase to an
average of 70,000 ha and the dry-season area to 22,600 ha. The area under
HYVs would also be expected to increase. Improvement and extension of
irrigation and drainage facilities would give farmers better control of crop
calendars, and the area under soybean and other secondary crops in the dry
season would increase to about 12,000 ha. The cropping intensity would
increase to 147% following project completion, from 114% at present.



-38 -
Y[ields and Production
5.13      Despite the relatively high yields for Indonesia in seme of the
project areas, there is considerable potential for further increases in agri-
cultural production through irrigation and land development. Improvements in
water control and distribution as a result of the project, combined with
adequate suppLies of credit, inputs and a strengthened and improved research
and extension services would raise yields appreciably for both rice and
secondary crops. At full project development wet and dry-season paddy yields
would average from 4.0 to 4.5 ton/ha in most project areas. The projected
yields would be achieved five years after the introduction of water or
completion of drainage or irrigation works.
5.14      The improved yields would be contingent on the use of improved
paddy varieties, certified seed, proper fertilizer and crop protection inputs
iLn the project: areas. The introduction of the National Food Crop Extension
]'roject to the project areas would play a key role in the organization of
farmer groups (para. 4.15) for extension, crop production, and water manage-
iaent. The formation of these groups would help in synchronizing cropping
patterns and calendars with projected water deliveries, increasing contact
between indiviidual farmers and government programs, and ensuring better use
of resources and inputs available to each farmer.
5.15       Present and future crop yields, cropping patterns and projected
increases in production of paddy and other crops for the project areas are
shown in Table 5.1.  At full project development, about six years after
completion of project works, annual total paddy production would reach
814,000 tons compared to 344,000 tons at present.
Cropping Calendars
'i. 16    The proposed cropping calendars for paddy and secondary crops in
i:he project areas are shown in Figures 5.1 and 5.2. With improvement and
extension of i,rrigation and drainage facilities, paddy and other crops can be
planted at the correct time, avoiding yield reductions due to planting out of
phase and interference with the following crop. The cropping calendars
proposed have also taken into account the peak labor demands for each of the
field operations, and allowed time for maintenance and necessary repairs of
i rrigation systems.
5.17       Among other factors, cropping calendars vary according to rainfall
and availability of water. Land preparation in most of the paddy areas takes
place in November/December, while harvesting takes place from April to early
June for the wet-season crop. The dry-season paddy crop is grown from April
through August.  In areas where farmers can only grow one crop of paddy
during the wet: season, two secondary crops can be grown in the dry season,
provided adequate residual moisture is available following the first secondary
crop.



- 39 -
Table 5.1: CROPPING PATTERNS, YIELDS AND iPRODUCTION
Present                  Future without project             Future with project /a
Area   Yield    Production        Area   Yield    Production         Area   Yield   Production
(ha)  (ton/ha)      (ton)         (ha)  (ton/ha)       (ton)         (ha)  (ton/ha)      (ton)
KALI PROGO
Wet Season
Irrigated paddy /b        30,500    3.5    106,750          30,500      3.8      115,900        34,700    4.5       156,150
Rainfed paddy /b           4,200    1.8         7,560        4,200      2.0         8,400
Dry Season
Irrigated paddy /b        14,100    3.5       49,350        14,100      3.8       53,580        28,700    4.5       129,150
Soybean /c                12,500    0.5         6,250       12,500      0.6         7,500        6,700    0.8         5,360
Vegetable /d               6,000   15.0        90,000        6,000    17.0       102,000         6,000   20.0       120,000
Tobacco                       600    0.4          240          600      0.4           240          800    0.6            480
Total                67,900                           67.900                               76,900
Cropping Intensity (%)          196                               196                                 222
WAY SEPUTIH
Wet Season
Irrigated paddy /b        12,500    2.7       33,750        12,500      3.6       45,000        20,800    4.2        87,360
Upland paddy /b             4,000    1.0        4,000        4,000      1.0         4,000
Rainfed paddy /b                                                                                 4,200    2.0         8,400
Fallow                     1,500       -            -
Dry Season
Irrigated paddy /b         2,000    1.9         3,800        2,000      4.0        8,000         3,800    4.0        15,200
Cassava                     7,000    8.0      56,000         8,500      8.0       68,000
Soybean /c                 1,300    0.4           520        1,300      0.4           520        6,000    0.6         3,600
Total                26,800                           28,300                              34,800
Cropping Intensity (%)          107                               113                                 139
WAY SEKAMPUNG
Wet Season
Irrigated paddy /b        32,400       3.0      97,200      32,400      3.2      103,680        70,000    4.5       315,000
Rainfed paddy /b              400      1.8         720         400      2.0           800        3,700    2.0          7,400
Upland paddy /b           20,400       1.0      20,400      20,400      1.0       20,400
Dry Season
Irrigated paddy            6,800       3.0      20,400       6,800      3.0       20,400        22,600    4.2        94,920
Cassava                   20,500       8.0    164,000       20,500      8.0      164,000              -      -             -
Soybean /c                 4,000       0.4       1,600       4,000      0.4         1,600       12,000    0.6         7,200
Total                84.500                           84,500                              108,300
Cropping Intensity (1)          115                               115                                  147
/a  In 1989 for Kali Progo and Way Sekampung and 1987 for Way Seputih.
/b  Paddy at 14% moisture.
/c  Composite grouping of secondary crops comprising soybean, groundnut, corn, etc.
/d  Composite grouping of higher value crops comprising vegetables, chili, and sugarcane.



- 40 -
Drying, Processing and Storage
5.18      Farmers sun-dry paddy on the roadside and in the house yards and
store it in their houses. Insufficient concrete drying floors makes drying
of the wet-season crop difficult and losses from rainfall can be consider-
able. The DGC is helping to overcome this problem by providing loans to
BUUD/KUDS to construct drying floors at all BUUD/KUD offices (para. 4.13).
There is adequate milling capacity to handle current production in the
project areas, and future increases in demand can be readily met, either by
private capital or BUUD/KUDs.  Most rice milled is medium grade, around 35%
broken.
6. MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES
Mcrket Prospect:s
6.01      Self--sufficiency in rice is a major Government goal.  Indonesian
rice production has been unable to satisfy demand for many decades.  From
1969 to 1976, iimports have ranged between 0.5 and 1.3 million tons. However,
due to a poor domestic crop in 1977,/1 recent drought conditions, and a
sl:eadily increasing population, imports have risen dramatically to around 2.5
million tons for Indonesia FY1977/78. While annual rice production grew by
some 4.5% from 1969 to 1975 (from 11.7 to 15.5 million tons), production has
stagnated around 15.5 million tons for the last three years. Although the
Government's estimates of future demands suggest 0.6 million tons of rice
imports would lbe required in 1978, it now appears imports would have to be
considerably higher, and substantial imports would continue to be required for
Many years.  Thus no difficulties are foreseen in marketing the additional
470,000 tons of paddy from the project areas.
6.02      Both Lampung Province and the Special District Yogyakarta are
rice deficit areas. While much of the project's incremental production would
be consumed at the farm level, the surplus to local requirements would be
marketed in the urban areas of Telukbetung and Yogyakarta, respectively.
Palawija crop production would be marketed locally.
6.03      Farmers mainly sell their surplus paddy production through private
dealers and millers. The Government's rice procurement authority (BULOG/
DOLOG) maintains a floor price for paddy in the project areas, and the
BUUD/KUD, its agent in the villages, buys a standard grade of paddy directly
from farmers at a fixed price. The floor price is currently Rp 70 (US$0.17)/kg
for 14% moist paddy at the village. Although during nonharvest periods
prices on the open market are usually higher than the floor price, farmers
are often forced to sell their paddy below the floor prices during the
wet-season harvest. In some cases inadequate facilities prevent paddy from
being dried tc, the required 14% moisture content standard. In other cases,
E;UUD/KUDs exhaust their credit lines from BULOG and are unable to obtain cash
to pay the farmers, who need cash immediately to meet tax payments or to pay
/'1 Dry-season harvest 1976, wet-season harvest 1976/77.



- 41 -
off the last season's debts so that they can purchase inputs for the new
season, and are then forced to sell their paddy on the open market at a
discount. Most farmers sell paddy with about 18-20% moisture content and up
to 10% impurities. Practically all farmers have to sell some paddy immediately
after harvest to meet their debts, even if they bhave to repurchase paddy
later for consumption. BULOG, through its subsidiary DOLOG, also maintains
rice and paddy storages at the provincial level. Farmers sell their palawija
crop production in village and subdistrict markets. Facilities at these
markets are being upgraded where necessary under the INPRES program. Some
BUUD/KUDs are disseminating information on market prices to their members.
Prices
6.04      For both the farm budget and economic analysis, farm inputs and
outputs have been valued at present and projectecl 1985 farmgate prices
expressed in mid-1978 constant terms. For rice, soybean and fertilizers,
these prices were derived from the Bank's Commodity Division's forecasts for
world market prices, and adjusted for transportation costs. Table 6.1
presents the price structure for rice. The remaining crops and inputs not
traded on the international market have been expressed in terms of actual
farmgate prices averaged over three years (1975-77) and adjusted for inflation.
Only an estimated 10% of rice production from the project areas would be
milled into high grade rice (5% brokens); 60% wouild be medium-grade (25-35%
brokens); and 30% would be low-grade (42%). Using this quality mix and the
world market price forecasts, the equivalent econiomic farmgate price for
paddy would rise from US$139/ton in 1978 to US$192/ton in 1985 (in terms of
mid-1978 constant dollars) in the Lampung projecl: area. Historically,
the Government has followed a policy of keeping consumer food prices low by
selling imported rice below its cost and keeping domestic floor prices low.
To mitigate the effect of this policy on farm income, GOI has simultaneously
subsidized fertilizer and pesticide. In the last three years, however, GOI
has substantially raised domestic paddy prices to encourage rice production.
This change in policy, combined with the fall of world prices from the
record levels of 1973-74, has brought farmgate prices fairly close to world
market levels. Thus, the floor price for paddy is now Rp 70/kg, as compared
with an imputed economic price of Rp 72/kg. With some fluctuations, GOI has
similarly gradually reduced the subsidies for fertilizers. GOI is expected
to continue its efforts to align domestic and world market prices, and
consequently at full development, economic and f:inancial prices for inputs
and outputs are assumed to coincide at the Bank's forecasted world market
prices. Table 6.2 gives all present and future prices used in the farm
budgets and economic analyses.
Farm Incomes
6.05      For farm income analysis, three representative farm models were
examined for Kali Progo and Way Sekampung and two for Way Seputih. At Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung, major benefits would not be available until Segala
Mider and Batutegi dams are constructed.  Nevertheless, farm models for these
areas have been included to show expected benefits with construction of the
dams.  Land use and cropping patterns for the present conditions broadly
reflect averages for cultivated lands in the project areas. For the analyses,



- 42 -
soybeans represent the considerable areas of secondary or palawija crops at
Lampung and Kali Progo, while cabbage production data was used to construct
the representative budget for vegetables at Kali Progo.  Farm budgets are
calculated according to cash flows. Labor costs include only hired and
harvest labor, not farm family labor, and were determined for non-harvest
periods by calculating the excess of total monthly labor requirements over an
estimated 40 man-days of family labor per farm per month. Hired farm labor
is costed at Rp 400/day in Lampung and Rp 300/day in Kali Progo. Average
annual land taxes (IPEDA) at present are Rp 2,500/ha dry land and Rp 8,000/ha
irrigated land at Kali Progo, and Rp 2,000/ha dry land and Rp 5,000/ha irrigated
land at Way Seputih and Way Sekampung. At full development they are estimated
to reach Rp 15,000/ha at Kali Progo, Rp 10,000/ha at Way Seputih, and Rp
12,000/ha at Way Sekampung. With the project, farmers would also contribute
Rp 4,000/ha (some 50 kg of paddy/ha) for O&M of the tertiary and quaternary
irrigation units. Share cropping is extensive at Kali Progo, and for this
subproject farm incomes have been calculated for both owner-operators and
sharecroppers. Except for the landlord paying the land tax, and the share-
cropper and his family contributing their labor, the landlord and share-
cropper equally divide gross production less harvesting and other production
costs. Farm families in all areas also earn considerable off-farm income
from either skilled (carpentry, stone masonry, local public oficial) or
unskilled work, and from roadside trading. Based on interviews with farmers
in the project areas, off-farm family earnings have been estimated for the
present and for the future with the project.
6.06      At Kali Progo (0.2, 0.5 and 0.7 ha farm models), the 0.2 and 0.5 ha
farms are assumed already fully irrigated during the wet season, while the
0.7 ha is 41% rainfed. The two smaller farms also have higher cropping
intensities than the 0.7 ha farm. Of the two farm models at Way Seputih
(1.25 and 2.0 ha), the 1.25 ha farm represents those already receiving
irrigation water. The 2.0 ha farm represents dryland holdings, which cover
about half of the project area. About 50% of the 2.0 ha farm's cultivated
area is presently growing upland rice, the balance is growing cassava. The
upland rice area is not levelled or bunded, as are existing irrigated and
rainfed rice areas. Additionally, the 2.0 ha farm has an uncultivated area
(0.25 ha), which would require light clearing to bring into future production.
All farmers have an average 20% of their holdings outside the project area.
This is presently used for growing upland crops, such as cassava, and would
continue to be so with the project. Existing irrigated land IIow gives
relatively low paddy yields. In future without the project, (lue to the
insufficient main canal capacity, wet season irrigated paddy yields would
reach only 86% of their potential yield. Even with the project, due to an
insufficient water supply, on average only 83% of a farmer's wet season rice
area would receive wet season irrigation water. The balance would produce at
rainfed levels (para. 3.28).
6.07      Of the three farm models (1.0, 1.0 and 2.0 ha) for Way Sekampung,
the two 1.0 ha farms represent the already irrigated areas. One model
is presently fully irrigated, while the other is growing dryland crops on 25%
of its area.  The 2.0 ha farm represents existing dryland farms, which grow
upLand rice and cassava.  The area of all existing farms fall within the
project area, and would be irrigated by the project. With the project, due



- 43 -
to an insufficient water supply, on average farmers would only have sufficient
water to irrigate 95% of their wet season rice area. The balance would
produce at rainfed levels (para. 3.32).
6.08      Table 6.3 shows the results of the farnm budget analysis.  Between
now and full agricultural development of the project, net crop income
would grow at 5-9%/year at Kali Progo, 6-20% at Way Seputih, and 7-20% at
Way Sekampung. Without the project, except for Way Seputih (see Table 6.3),
farm income would increase little. Even allowing for the additional costs of
family farm labor and management (Table 6.4), this indicates farmers would
have sufficient financial incentive to achieve the projected yields and
cropping intensities.
6.09      Although comparisons of farm incomes baLsed on farm budgets with
income data based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted with
caution, they do present an approximation of the relative position of project
beneficiaries. Present per capita farm incomes in the project areas are
between US$40 and US$140, about 15-35% of the estimated 1978 per capita GNP of
US$275. Providing the farm population remains constant, at full project
development in 1990 the projected per capita farm income is estimated to range
from US$55 to US$270, some 15-65% of the then per capita GNP. The project
would enable beneficiaries to slightly improve thLeir income levels in terms of
other income levels throughout the economy.
6.10      An estimated 95% of the Kali Progo project area's farm families
presently have annual per capita incomes at or below the estimated absolute
poverty level of US$95 (in end-1975 prices). At full agricultural development,
the project would increase this group's incomes on average by 40%, raising
about 10% of the farmers in the group above the absolute poverty level. At
Way Seputih and Way Sekampung some 30-50% of per capita incomes are presently
below this level. With the project most incomes (85-90%) would be lifted
above that level.
6.11      No reliable income data are available for the landless laborers who
live in the Kali Progo project area. However, assuming two full-time workers
per family; an average wage rate of Rp 200/day; and 200 work days/year/worker,
the annual income of a landless family can be no more than Rp 80,000 or
US$195. Since employment opportunities are limited, many families probably
earn less. Benefits to accrue to landless laborers under the project are
discussed in para. 7.01.
Project Charges
6.12      Irrigators in Indonesia pay a land tax (IPEDA) and, depending on the
intensity of on-farm irrigation development, water charges for the operation
and maintenance of the irrigation system below the secondary turn-out. IPEDA
is collected by village heads, and turned over tc) local and provincial
administrations for use in public services. However, it can be considered a
direct project tax which contributes towards the operation and maintenance,
plus capital repayments, of the main irrigation system. Since IPEDA is
assessed as a percentage of the value of productiLon, the amounts collected



- 44 -
would increase as crop yields rise in response to the project. A GOI inter-
ministerial committee has recommended that part of this increase in IPEDA
should be used to cover annual operating and maintenance costs of the irriga-
tion works that were rehabilitated or constructed. Additionally, as a result
of a recent GOI decision to tie disbursements under its local infrastructure
development program (INPRES) to IPEDA collection peformance, IPEDA collection
rates have improved markedly. At present up to 10% of the IPEDA rate is used
for O&M of the main and secondary systems. The central government, however,
provides the balance of funds, 90% or more, required for O&M of the main
systems.
6.13      Water-user associations at the tertiary canal level in Indonesia
have traditionally contributed a portion of their crop to the water master
(ulu-ulu), or he has received the use of an area of village rice land in
payment for his services. As tertiary and quaternary canal and drain develo-
ment has occurred under Bank-assisted irrigation projects, the irrigators
have increased their contributions to cover all operation and maintenance
costs of the tertiary/quaternary unit. The amount of this water charge
varies according to the degree of development of the tertiary unit. Present
and expected future levels of IPEDA and water charges are as follows in
the three project areas (in constant mid-1978 prices):
Project Charges Averaged over Subproject Areas
Present     With Project /a  Increment
==------------- (Rp/ha) --------------
Kali Progo
IPEDA                     7,300         15,000           7,700
Water charges                900          4,000           3,100
Way Seputih
IPEDA                     3,500         10,000           6,500
Water charges             1,000          4,000           3,000
Way Sekampung
IPEDA                     3,300         12,000           8,700
Water charges                400         4,000           3,600
/a  With project refers to full agricultural development in
1987 at Way Seputih and 1989 in Kali Progo and Way Sekampung.
In future without the project IPEDA and water charges are
assumed to remain at the present levels (1978 prices), except
for Way Seputih where they would be Rp 5,000 and Rp 1,500/ha
respectively.



_ 45 -
6.14      Assurances were obtained that, following the completion of the Kali
Progo and Lampung subprojects, GOI would collect, in accordance with its laws
and regulations, the adjusted IPEDA based on the increased productivity of
all irrigated land rehabilitated and constructecl under the project; amounts
to be collected would be sufficient to ensure sound O&M practices and to
recover a reasonable portion of the capital costs during the projects' useful
life, taking into account farmers' incentives and capability to pay; and it
would submit to the Bank for review every two years the IPEDA rates collected
for different land classes.
6.15      In determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of
project charges to benefits under the project, cost and rent recovery indices
have been calculated. The cost recovery indices are 14% for Kali Progo; 11%
for Way Seputih, and 8% for Way Sekampung. At Kali Progo, rent recovery
indices were calculated for owner-operators and sharecroppers on 0.2, 0.5
and 0.7 ha farms; and at Way Seputih and Way Sekampung for owner-operators
on farms of 1.25 and 2.0 ha, and 1.0, and 2.0 ha respectively. They indi-
cated that at Kali Progo owner-operators would pay from 66 to 74% of their
project rent in incremental project charges, and sharecroppers from 11 to
22%; while owner-operators would pay from 62 to 83% at Way Seputih, and
from 48 to 70% at Way Sekampung. Table 6.4 lists the assumptions used in
calculating the rent recovery indices.
6.16      Project charges are considered satisfactory in all the subproject
areas, and no increase is proposed in the projected land tax rate and water
charges farmers would pay under the project. At full project development, at
least 90% of Kali Progo farmers would still be below the critical consumption
level, /1 while owner-operator farmers in all project areas would have rent
recoveries higher than 50%. Besides paying substantial total direct project
charges (land taxes and tertiary/quaternary block O&M charges, Rp 14,000 - Rp
19,000/ha), all irrigators would pay at least 10% of their gross value of
production in village taxes, as well as contributing to the social life of the
village through religious taxes, compulsory feasts, and allowing all village
members, if they wish, to partake in the harvest of the farmer's paddy crop.
The harvesters retain up to one fifth of the crop as payment, a wage rate
considerably higher than the average market rate. Since even at full project
development practically all sharecropper families would have per capita
incomes below the critical consumption level the low rent recovery indices for
this group are most appropriate.
/1 Critical consumption level (CCL) is defined as the consumption level
at which the social value of an extra unit of consumption equals the
social value of a unit of extra public revenue. In Indonesia the CCL is
estimated to be at least two-thirds of national GNP per capita.



Table 6.1: RICE PRICE STRUCTURE, 1978 AND 1985
(Rp and US$/ton at constant mid-1978 prices)
Kali Progo (Java)                                 Lampung (Sumatra)
1978                     1985                     1978                     1985
Rp/ton    US$/ton        Rp/ton    US$/ton        Rp/ton    US$/ton        Rp/ton    US$/ton
Rice
Export price Thai 5-42% broken /a mix. f.o.b. Bangkok   122,000             235       156,000        300       122,000        235       156,000        300
Ocean freight and insurance                                   10,500         20        10,500         20         9,500         18         9,500          18
Port handling                                                  2,500          5         2,500          5         3,000          6         3,000           6
Handling, transport and storage to wholesaler                  3,000          6         3,000          6         1,500          3         1,500           3
Transport, handling mill to wholesaler                        -1,000         -2        -1,000         -2        -3,000         -6        -3,000          -6
Rice price ex-mill project area                              137,000        264       171,000        329       133,000        256       167,000         321
Paddy equivalent price (63% recovery)                         86,500        166       107,500        207        84,000        162       105,000        202
Milling costs less value of byproducts                        -1,000         -2        -1,000         -2        -8,500        -16        -2,500          -5
Drying and cleaning                                           -1,500         -3        -1,500         -3        -1,500         -3        -1,500          -3
Handling and transport farm to mill (BUUD/KUD)                -1,000         -2        -1,000         -2        -2,000         -4        -1,000          -2
Farm-gate paddy price /b                                      83,000        159       104,000        200        72,000        139       100,000         192
(Financial farm-gate price) /c                               (65,000)/d   (157)       (83,000)/e   (200)       (63,000)Jf   (152)       (83,000)/e   (200)
/a Assumed rice quality:  10% of production, 5% brokens; 60% medium grade, 25-35% brokens; 30% lower grade, 42% brokens.  Assumed prices in 1985
(in constant mid-1978 prices); 5% brokens, US$422/ton; 25-35% brokens, US$290/ton; 42% brokens, US$275/ton.
Ab  At a shadow-priced exchange rate of Rp 520 = US$1.00.
/c  At the official exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1.00.
/d  Present financial price calculated as follows:  floor price at BUUD/KUD for 14% moisture content paddy Rp 70/kg; less Rp 1.5/kg drying and
cleaning; Rp 1/kg transport farm to BUUD/KUD; Rp 2.5/kg for market imperfections.
/e  In the future, distortions are assumed eliminated between internal and world market prices.  Since the Government operates a single floor
price level throughout all Indonesia, financial prices would be similar in Java and Lampung.
/f  Present financial price calculated as in /d except transport farm to BUUD/KUD is Rp 2/kg and market imperfections are Rp 3.5/kg.



- 47 -
Table 6.2: INPUT AND OUTPUT PRICES
(Rp'000/ton)
1978                      1985
Financial  Economic    Financial  Economic
Crops
Paddy - Kali Progo                     65          83            83         104
- Lampung                       63           72           83          100
Soybean                               135         157           156         195
Tobacco                               800         800           800         800
Vegetable                              20          20            20          20
Fertilizer
Urea                                   71         110           110         139
TSP                                    71          93            97         122
Seeds
Paddy - Kali Progo - Local             65          83            83         104
- HYV            150         166           166         208
- Lampung     - Local           63           72           83          100
- HYV            150         144           166         200
Soybean - Local                       135         157           156         195
- Good quality                 -           -           176         219
Tobacco (Rp/ha)                     9,000       9,000        9,000        9,000
Vegetable (Rp/ha)                 18,000       18,000       18,000       18,000
Other
Agrochemicals (Rp/liter)              900       4,100           900       4,100
Zinc phosphide                      2,300       2,700        2,300        2,700



- 48 -
Table 6.3: SUMMARY FARM BUDGETS
Per capita
Farm   Family    Crop income /a    Off-farm income  Total Farm income               income
model   size   Present  Future /b  Present  Future   Present  Future   Present  Future
(ha)   (no.)   ---------------------- (Rp '000) -------------------  ---- (US$) ----
Kali Progo
0.2       5.5       60       115          60       60       120       175       55         75
5.5 /d   30         60          60       60        90       120       40        55
0.5       5.5      150       285          40       30       190       315       85       140
5.5 /d   80        145          40       30       120       175       55         75
0.7       5.5      130       360          40       25       170       385        75      170
5.5 /d   65        185          40       25       105       210       45        90
Way Seputih
1.25      5.7     245 /c   265            90       90       335       355      140       150
2.00      5.7       80       405          60       40       140       445       60       190
Way Sekampung
1.0       5.6      155       325          60       50       215       375       95       160
1.0       5.6      130       325          90       50       220       375       95       160
2.0       5.6       80       595          60       30       140       625       60       270
/a  A'Ll income data is rounded to nearest Rp 5,000 and US$5.
/b  Future represents at full project development in 1987 for Way Seputih, and 1989
for Way Sekampung and Kali Progo.
/c  This figure refers to future without the project, as due to earlier Bank project
(Credit 127-IN])), present income is expected to increase substantially.
/d  This data line refers to sharecroppers, all other data is for owner-operators.



Table 6.4: RENT RECOVERY
(Rp'000)
Kali Progo                              Wav Seputih                   Way Sekampung
0.2 ha Farm    0.5 ha Farm    0.7 ha Farm   1.25 ha Farm  2.0 ha Farm  1.0 ha Farm   2.0 ha Farm
Own.-  Share-  Own.-  Share-  Own.-  Share-                                       Own.-  Own.-        Own.-
Representative farm                                                oper.  crop.   oper.  crop.   oper.  crop.           Own.-oper.    Own.-oper.  oper.  oper.           oper.
A.  At Full Project Development
1.  Incremental - Gross Value of farm production /a               48      24        119   60         264   132               37            500       161   224           817
2.               - Less cash production costs /a                  14        7        35   18          68    34               10            181        46    67           294
3.               - Equals net cash income                         34      17         84   42         196    98               27            319       115   157           523
4.                - Less imputed family labor costs /b              5       5        12   12          29    29                3             46         11    20           44
5.                - Less imputed farmer's management /c             2       1         6    3          13      7               2             25          8    11           41
6.                - Less imputed return on own capital /d           7       -        17    -          46      -               5             40        25    30            90
7.               - Less allowance for risk/uncertainty Ie   10             5         24   12          53    26                3            100        32    45           163
8.                - Less general taxes /f                           5       2        12    6          26    13                4             50         16    22           82
9.                - Less miscellaneous /g                           2       1         6    3          13      7               2             25          8    11           41
10.  Equals project rent                                             3       3         7    6          16    16                8             33         15    18           62
11.  Incremental - Water charges (O&M)                               1       0.5       1    0.75        3      1.5             2              6          3      3.25        8
12.                - Land taxes (IPEDA)                              1       -         4    -           7      -               4             13          7      8          20
13.                - Total direct charges                            2       0.5       5    0.75       10      1.5             6             19         10    11.25        28
B. Discounted Cash Flows Over Project Life /h
14.  Project rent                                                   23      23        54   47         124   124               62            256        117   140          482
15.  Water charges                                                   9       5         9    7          28     14              19             57         28    31           76
16.  Land taxes                                                      8       -        31    -          54      -             31            101         54    62          155
17.  Total direct charges                                           17       5        40    7          82     14              50            158         82    93          231
18.  Rent recovery (%)                                              74      22        74   15          66    11               83             62         70    66           48
Farm income per capita at full development (1989) (US$)             75      55       140   75         170     90             150             190       160   160           270
Absolute poverty level (1975):  US$95
GNP per capita (1978):  US$275 /i
/a From Annex 2, Table 7.
/b Wage rate Rp 300/day at Kali Progo, Rp 400/day at Way Seputih, Way Sekampung.
/c At 5% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/d At 10% of farmer's own incremental capital.
Ie At 20% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/f Village taxes, at 10% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/R Storage losses at 5% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/h Net present value of project rent and incremental charges, which are discounted at 10%/year over the project life (30 years).
/i  GNP per capita for 1977 of US$260 inflated by 6%.



- 50 -
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      By providing improved water control, distribution and arainage,
the proposed project would increase crop yields and production on a total of
93,300 ha, consisting of 46,100 ha at Way Sekampung; 12,500 ha at Way Seputih,
and 34,700 ha at Kali Progo. The project would directly benefit some
147,100 farm families or 816,700 people; and through the provision of
additional emiployment opportunities, indirectly benefit some 42,200 landless
laborers' families, or 232,700 people. By increasing dry season irrigation
from 22,900 ha at present to 37,500 ha (rice only) at full project development,
it would also create a demand for an additional 3.8 million man-days of farm
labor per year, equivalent to some 15,800 full-time additional jobs annually.
Although not included in the economic benefits, the project would considerably
improve village water supplies for domestic purposes throughout the project
areas. It would also support the Government's policies of reducing food
grain imports and attaining self-sufficiency in rice production.
7.02      Economic rates of return are presented for the proposed works at
Kali Progo; Way Seputih, including the construction of Segala Mider dam; Way
Sekampung with the construction of Batutegi dam to store 400 MCM and a 73,700 ha
service area; and the construction of irrigation systems at Way Kandis and
Way Ketibung. Although the project provides only for the detailed design of
the irrigation systems at Way Kandis and Way Ketibung, economic rates of
return have been calculated for these works to demonstrate their economic
feasibility. The proposed phasing of project works at Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung with dam construction proposed to be financed under future loans,
results from financial considerations, not from any logical physical separation
of project works into two stages.
7.03      Benefits.  Expected future crop yields and production with and
without the project are discussed in Chapter 5. Chapter 6 presents the
farm-gate prices for inputs and outputs, based on the Bank's commodity price
forecasts for rice, soybean and chemical fertilizers, and domestic prices for
other commodities. Annex 2, Tables 2 and 3 give the expected crop production
costs and labor requirement/ha; Table 7.1 shows the expected gross and net
crop returns/ha (without accounting for labor), the total expected agricultural
benefits at fuall agricultural development for the project areas, and summarizes
net agricultural benefits for each project area.
7.04      Foreign Exchange.  Due to the existence of import taxes, quantita-
tive restrictions and export subsidies, the official exchange rate of Rp 415
US$1.00 does not represent the true value to the economy of foreign exchange
used in carrying out the project, and savings through increased grain produc-
t:ion. A standard conversion factor of 0.8 (Rp 520 = US$1.00) was, therefore,
used in the economic analysis.



- 51 -
7.05      Labor Pricing.  Because of the small average farm size (0.4 ha,
Kali Progo; 1.2 ha, Way Seputih; and 1.0 ha, Way Sekampung), and the large
number of landless families at Kali Progo whose major income source is farm
labor, considerable unemployment, and employment of low productivity, exists
in the project areas. Additionally, farm labor requirements are distinctly
seasonal, with major demands occurring during the wet season. Even at full
project development during the month of peak labor requirement (wet season
harvesting, dry season cultivation and transplanting of rice), total labor
utilization in agriculture would be only 47% at Kali Progo, 85% at Way
Sekampung and just reach 100% at Way Seputih. While the farm labor force
tries to offset this situation by doing considerable off-farm work, much of
this is of extremely low productivity. Thus farm labor was valued at a
monthly shadow wage rate. This varies seasonally, and averages Rp 130/man-day
at Kali Progo, Rp 195/man-day at Way Seputih, and Rp 175/man-day at Way
Sekampung over the year under "with" project conditions at full agricultural
development, compared to a "full employment" market wage /1 of Rp 300/man-day
at Kali Progo and Rp 400/man-day in the Lampung areas. Table 7.2 shows the
total monthly labor requirements for crops by project areas, while Table 7.3
summarizes the analysis of the economic cost of faLrm labor at full development.
Since project construction work would employ many local landless laborers,
unskilled labor used in civil works was valued at 50% of its market wage rate
for the economic analysis.
7.06      Investment Costs.  As calculated for the economic analyses and
expressed in mid-1978 prices, the total investment: costs are:
Project investment costs                   Annual
Project       Farmer                                 incremental
Project area       works      investment /a    Other /b        Total    O&M costs
-- Rp billion -…--------------   Rp '000/ha
Kali Progo          23.49            -                         23.49       4,700
Way Seputih         15.98         1.44           0.10          17.52       5,700
Way Sekampung      108.04         3.72           0.78         112.54       7,500
Way Kandis           2.00         0.12             Ic           2.12       7,200
Way Ketibung         4.13         0.30           0.03           4.46       7,200
/a  Farmer investment refers to land levelling.
/b  Other investment is the required infrastructure for agricultural services.
/c  Investment required is too small to enter here, and has been included under
farmer investment.
/1 The market wage during periods of maximum agricultural activity.



- 52 -
Investment costs are net of taxes and transfer payments. In determining
their rupiah value, foreign exchange costs were converted to rupiah using a
standard conversion factor 0.8 (para. 7.04). Investment costs have been
adjusted to reflect the economic value of unskilled labor used in construction
(civil works reduced 10%, para. 7.05). Costs include physical contingencies,
but exclude price contingencies. Farmer investment costs are land levelling
and field bunid construction, and would cover 11,500 ha at Way Seputih; up to
41,300 ha at Way Sekampung; 1,250 ha at Way Kandis and 3,50)0 ha at Way Ketibung.
Other investment costs are the infrastructure required for agricultural sup-
porting services, such as paddy drying floors, paddy and fertilizer storages
at village level; and rural extension buildings. Estimated incremental
annual O&M costs would vary from Rp 4,700 to Rp 7,500/ha for the main irriga-
tion systems and from Rp 3,000 to Rp 4,000/ha at the farm level.
7.07      Development Period.  According to the project implementation
schedules (Figure 3.1-3.4), development would occur as follows:
Kali Prcgo. Some 5,000 ha of the Kali Progo service area would be
completed during 1979; another 6,000 ha per year during 1980-83, and
the balance of 5,700 ha in 1984. The subsequent wet season crops, for
example 5,000 ha in 1979/80, would be the first grown under upgraded
conditions.
Way Seputih. The main canal would be enlarged so that all run-of-the-
river water supplies (12,500 ha) could be utilized in 1980. For this
area, the 1979/80 wet season crop would be the first grown under upgraded
conditions. Segala Mider reservoir would initially supply water for
3,800 ha in the 1982 dry season, and would irrigate the entire 25,000 ha
in the 1982/83 wet season.
Way Sekampung. Some 11,000 ha of the service area, which run-of-the-
river could supply (46,100 ha), would be completed during 1979, and the
1979/80 wet season crop would be the first grown under upgraded conditions.
Another 2,500 ha would be completed during 1980, 12,000 ha in 1981, and
10,600 ha in 1982, with also the subsequent wet season crops being the
first under upgraded conditions. Batutegi reservoir would initially
supply water for 22,600 ha in the 1984 dry season, and would irrigate
the entire project area (73,700 ha) in the 1984/85 wet season.
Way Kandis. Construction would commence in 1980, and farmers would
initially irrigate 80% (1,000 ha) of the service area during the
1982/83 wet season, with the balance (250 ha) coming into production
during the 1983/84 wet season.
Way Ketibung. Construction would commence in 1980, and farmers would
initially irrigate 2,400 ha during the 1982/83 wet season; another 700 ha
in the 1'383/84 wet season; and the balance of 400 ha in the 1984/85
wet season.
Beginning with the first crop grown under upgraded conditions, farmers would
achieve the projected yield levels over five years in equal installments.



- 53 -
Way Seputih would reach full development in 1987; Way Kandis in 1988; Kali
Progo, Wlay Sekampung and Way Ketibung in 1989.
7.08      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting project costs and benefits over 30 years the economic rates of
return (Table 7.4), are summarized as follows:
Component                            Economic Rate of Return (%)
Kali Progo                                       21
Way Seputih (25,000 ha)                          14
Way Sekampung 400 MCM dam (73,700 ha)            12
Way Kandis                                       12
Way Ketibung                                     14
The weighted average "rate of return" would be 14%.
7.09      Sensitivity Analysis.  Construction delays and cost overruns are
the most likely problems the project would encounter during implementation.
Thus, the sensitivity of the rates of return were tested to these variables,
including three and five year delays in commencing Segala Mider and Batutegi
dams' construction, plus a 25% reduction in total benefits (equivalent to
some 12% reduction in projected yields) should farmers not realize the
projected commodity prices, cropping yields and/or intensities. Table 7.5
shows the results of the analysis. The rates of return for Way Sekampung,
Way Kandis and Way Ketibung fall below 12% under the adverse conditions
tested, demonstrating the need to keep costs and benefits at or near present
projections. However, in none of the cases tested and shown in Table 7.5
would the rate of return fall below 9%, while on the other hand, if the
level of benefits are 25% higher than forecasted, the rates of return would
be around 20% higher. The analysis of the timing of dam construction shows
that with either a three or five year delay in construction the economic
rate of return remains at 12% at Way Sekampung, while at Way Seputih it
falls progressively from 14% without any delay to 11% with a five year
delay. Although this suggests that the rate of return is not sensitive to
the timing of Batutegi dam's construction, the analysis does not take into
account the possible deterioration of the service area (19,000 ha), which
could not be used until Batutegi's water supplies are available, and the
social and economic problems of the transmigrant farmers who have been
waiting many years for irrigation water.  At Way Seputih the analysis
emphasizes the importance of keeping to the proposed construction schedule.
Under the most unlikely circumstances, should GOI not construct the dams the
economic rates of return would be about 5% at both Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung for the works proposed in this project.



- 54 -
Table 7.5: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
(Economic Rate of Return)
Kali    Way       Way       Way      Way
Progo Seputih Sekampung Kandis Ketibung
_________________  _  -(% )…________ _________
Base estimate                          21       14        12        12       14
Construction cost increased by 20%    18        12         9        10       11
Commencement of dam construction
delayed:  tlhree years                -       12        12         -        -
five years                  -      11         12        -         -
Total benefits decreased by 25%         17      11         10        9       10
Total benefits increased by 25%         25      17         17       14       17
7.10      Risks.  Because of the need to relocate staff in establishing the
PIBD, minor management and organizational problems may occur during the early
phase of implementation. However no major management or organizational
problems are esxpected since the project provides considerable technical
assistance for the PIBD.  Rapid inflation over the last several years led to
sizable cost overruns on projects initiated in the early 1970s. Inflation is
llow more nearLy under control, but provisions for price increases are greater
i-or this project and other projects recently financed by the Bank than in
earlier projects.



Sheet I of 2
Table 7.1: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION AT FULL PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
Net value of
Farm-gate      Gross value      Production      Net value        production in   Imputed        Net benefit in
Area       Yield         price        of production         costs     of production    project area    labor cost   project area
('000 ha)  (ton/ha)  (Rp'000/ton)  -------------- (Rp '000/ha) -------------   --------------- (Rp million)  - ---------
Kali Progo
Future Without Project
Wet Season - Rainfed rice               4.2         2.0           104             208                43             165                693
Irrigated rice          30.5         3.8           104             395               72              323             9,852
Dry Season - Irrigated rice            14.1         3.8           104             395                67             328              4,625
- Soybeans                12.5         0.6           195             117                13             104              1,300
- Tobacco                  0.6         0.4           800             320                76             244                146
- Vegetables               6.0        17.0            20             340               101             239              1,434
Total          67.9                                                                                        18,050             1,633         16.417
Cropping intensity, 198%
Future With Project
Wet Season - Irrigated rice            34.7         4.5           104             468                84             384             13,325
Dry Season - Irrigated rice            28.7         4.5           104             468                79             389             11,164
- Soybeans                 6.7         0.8           195              156               22             134                898
- Tobacco                  0.8         0.6           800             480               100             380                304
- Vegetables               6.0        20.0            20             400               112             288              1,728
Total          76.9                                                                                        27,419             2,261         25.158
Cropping intensity, 224%
Incremental Benefits from Project Area                                                                                                 9,369               628          8,741
Way Seputih
Future Without Project
Wet Season - Upland rice                4.0         1.0           100              100               21               79               316
Irrigated rice          12.5         3.6           i00             360                75             285              3,563
Dry Season - Irrigated rice              2.0        4.0           100             400                76              324               648
Soybean                  1.3         0.4           195              78                12              66                 86
Cassava                  8.5         8.0             9              72                14              58                493
Total          28.3                                                                                          5,106               697          4,409
Cropping intensity, 113%
Future With Project
Wet Season - Rainfed rice                4.2        2.0           100              200               71              129                542
Irrigated rice          20.8         4.2           100             420                77             343              7,134
Dry Season - Irrigated rice              3.8        4.0           100              400               76              324             1,231
Soybean                  6.0         0.6           195             117                19               98               588
Total          34.8                                                                                          9,495             1.292          8,203
Cropping intensity, 139%
Incremental Benefits from
Project Area                                                                                                                         4,389               595          3.794



- 56 -                                                                   Sheet 2 of 2
Table 7.1: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION AT FULL PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
Net value of
Farm-gate    Gross value        Production      Net value       production in   Imputed        Net benefit in
Area       Yield         price        of production        costs    of production    project area    labor cost   project area
('000 ha)  (tom/ha)   (Rp'000/ton)  -------------- (Rp '000/ha) -------------   --------------- (Rp milli.o) ------------
Way Sekampung - 400 MCM Dan (73, 700 ha)
Futre lLithout Projct
Wet S-ason - Upland rice               20.4        1.0           100             100                21              79             1,612
Rainfed rice             0.4        2.0           100             200                37             163                65
Irrigated rico          32.4        3.2           100             320               57              263             8,521
Dry Sc!ason - Irrigated rice            6.8        3.0           100             300                56             244             1,659
Soybean                  4.0        0.4           195              78                12              66               264
Cassava                 20.5        8.0             9              72                14              58             1,189
Total         84.5                                                                                        13,310            1,926         11,479
Cropping intensity, 115%
Future 1ith Project
Wet Season - Rainfed rico               3.7        2.0           100             200                71             129               477
- Irrigated rice          70.0         4.5          100             450                78             372            26,040
Dry Season - Irrigated rice            22.6        4.2           100             420                77             343             7,752
Soybean                 12.0        0.6           195             117                19              98             1,176
Total        108.3                                                                                       35,445             3,757         31,688
Cropping intensity, 147%
1ncre.e mtal Benefits from Project Area                                                                                             24,j135           1,926         20, 209
Way Kandis
Futuro W.thot Project
Wet Season - Upland rice                0.3         1.0          100             100                21              79                24
Rainfed rice             0.2        2.0           100             200                37             163                33
Dry Seoson - Cassava                   0.75        8.0             9              72                14              58                44
Total          1.25                                                                                          101               27             74
Cropping intensity, 100%
Future With Project
Wet Season - Irrigated rice            1.25        3.8           100             380                75             305               381
Dry Season - Irrigated rice             0.3        3.6           100             360               74             286                 86
- Soybeans                 0.5         0.6          195             117                19              98                49
Total         2.05                                                                                           516               75            441
Croppiog intensity, 164%
Incremental Benefits from Project Area                                                                                                 415               48            367
Way Ktetibung
Future Without Project
Wet Sea.on - Upland rice                1.0        1.0           100             100               21              79                 79
Rainfed rice             0.8        2.0           100             200               37             163                130
Dry Season - Cassava                    1.7        8.0             9              72               14              58                 99
Total           3.5                                                                                         308                80           228
Cropping intensity, 100%
Future Witb Project
Wet Seat:oo - Irrigated rico            3.5        4.2           100             420               77             343             1,201
Dry Seaton - Soybeans                   0.8        0.6           195             117               19              98                 78
Total           4.3                                                                                      1.279               165          1.114
Cropping intensity, 123%
Incremental Benefits iron Project Area                                                                                                971                85            886



- 57 -
Table 7.2: TOTAL MONTHLY CROP LABOR REQUIREMfENTS
('000  an-days)
Area
('000 ha)    Jan       Feb      Mar      Apr      May      Jun      Jul      Aug       Sep    Oct    Nov       Dec      Total
Kali Pros'
Wet Season
Rainfed rice               - P ft       4.2          134      118       38       84       80       42        -        -        -      -       84      134       714
W          4.2         134       118       38       84       80       42        -        -        -      -       84      134       714
Irrigated rice             - P         30.5        1,129   1,067       458      915      640      305        -         -        -     -      610      976    6,100
W         30.5       1,129   1,067       458       915      640      305        -        -        -      -      610      976    6,100
W         34.7       1,388   1,319   1,284   1,249          937        -        -        -        -      -      694   1,110      7,981
Dry seas.n
Irrigated rice            - P          14.1            -        -        -      226      606      860      254      254      620      -        -        -    2,820
U         14.1            -        -        -      226      606      860      234      234      620      -        -        -    2,820
W         28.7            -        -     287   1,263   1,636         918      918   1,579         -      -        -        -    6,601
Irrigated asybeans I ft - 4            12.5            -        -        -      125      313      250      187      288      275      -        -        -    1,438
W         12.5            -        -        -      125      313      250      187      288      275      -        -        -    1,438
W          4.0            -        -       40      100      100       80      100      120        -      -        -        -       540
Irrigated soybeana 11   - W             2.7            -        -        -        -        -       27       68       67       54    68        81        -       365
Irrigated tobacco          - P          0.6            -        -        -        -       30       26       11       20       30    33         -        -       150
W          0.6            -        -        -        -       30       26       11       20       30    33         -        -       150
W          0.8            -        -        -        -       40       44       18       33       50    55         -        -       240
Irrigated vegetables    - p             6.0            -        -        -        -        -        -        -      180      360   480       390      270    1,680
W          6.0            -        -        -        -        -        -        -      180      360   480       420      300    1,740
W          6.0            -        -        -        -        -        -        -      300      480   540       480        -    1,800
Total          -P           67.9       1,263    1,185      496   1.350   1,669   1.483          452      742   1,285   513   1,084   1,380   12.902
W         67.9       1,263   1.185       496   1,350   1.669   1,483          452      742   1.285   513   1,114    410    12.962
W         76.9       1.388   1,319   1,611   2,612   2,713   1.069   1,104  2.099               584   663   1.,255    ,110   17,527
Way Sepst ih
Wet Season
Upland rice                -P           3.5           42       35       18       14       94       53        -        -        -      -       70       94       420
V          4.0           48       40       20       16      108       60        -        -        -      -       80      108       480
Rainfed rice.              - W          4.2          143      109       84      134      109        -        -        -        -      -       84      135       798
Irrigated rica             - p         12.5          425      325      250      400      325        -        -        -        -      -      250      400    2,375
W         12.5         550      338      287      438       150        -        -        -        -      -      250      550    2,563
W         20.8         915      562      478       770      312        -        -        -        -      -     416       915    4,368
Dry seanom
Irrigated rice            - p           2.0            -        -        -       40       90       90       44       66       50      -        -        -       380
U          2.0            -        -       20       84      106       48       56      106        -      -        -        -       420
U          3.8            -        -      38       160     201        91      106      202        -      -        -        -       798
Soybean                    - P          1.3            -        -        -       16       35       23       12       25       19      -        -        -       130
U          1.3            -        -        -       16      35        23       12       25       19      -        -        -       130
'          6.0            -        -      60      120      1P0        96      120      144        -      -        -        -       660
Ca.sava                    - p          7.5           38       37       23       22       15       15      150      150       53    97        38       37       675
'          8.5          43       42       26        25      17        17      170      170       60   110       43       42        765
Total          - P          26.8         505      397      291      492      559      181      206      241       122    97      358      531    3.980
W         28.3         641      420      353      579      416      148      238      301        79   110      373      700    4358
W         34.8       1,058      671      660   1,184       742      187      226      346         -     -      500   1,050    6,624
Way lekanpuna - 400 14CM dam (73.700 ha)
Wet Season
Upland rice                - p         20.4          245      204      102       82      551      306        -        -        -      -     408      550    2,448
W         20.4         245      204      102       82      551      306         -        -        -     -      408      550    2,448
Rainfed rice               - p          0.4           12       11        3        8        7        3        -        -        -      -        8       12        64
W          0.4           12      11         3        8        7        3        -       -         -     -        8       12        64
W          3.7         126       96       74      118       96        -         -       -         -     -       74      119       703
Irrigated rice            - P          32.4       1,102      842      648   1,037       842         -        -        -        -     -      648   1,037      6,156
W         32.4       1,102      842      648   1,037       842        -         -        -        -     -      648   1,037      6,156
W         70.0       3,080   1,890   1,610   2,590   1,050            -        -        -        -      -   1,400   3,080   14,700
Dry season
Irrigated rice            - P           6.8           -         -        -      136     306      306      150      224      170      -        -        -    1,292
W          6.8           -        -         -     136      306      306      150      224      170      -        -        -    1,292
W         22.6           -        -      226      949   1,198       542      633   1,198         -      -        -        -    4,746
Soybean                    -P           4.0            -        -        -       48      108       72       36      76       60      -        -        -       400
W          4.0           -         -        -      48      108       72       36       76       60      -        -        -       400
W         12.0            -       -      120      240      240      192      240      288        -      -        -        -    1,320
Casaava                    - P         20.5          103      102       62       61      41       41      410      410       144   266      103      102    1,845
W         20.5         103      102       62       61       41       41      410      410      144   266       103      102    1,845
Total           - P         94.5       1.462   1,159       815   1,372   1,855        728      596      710      374   266   1.167   1,701   12,205
W         94.5       1,462   1 159     815   1,372   1,855          728      596      710      374   266   1,167   1,701   12.205
W        108.3       3,206   1.986   2.030   3.897   2,584          734      873   1.486      -_        -   1,474   3,199   21.469
ft  P - Present; W   Putare withost prnJnct; W - FPture with pr-ject.
Lb Soybeans I - Early crrp planted after wet-seaes. paddy.
Snybeana 1I - Late crop planted after S.ybean.   I.



Table 7.3:  ECONOMIC COST OF FARM LABOR AT FULL PROJECT DEVELOPtMENT (1989) /a
Jan       Feb      Mar       Apr       May       Jun       Jul       Aug       Sep       Oct       Nov        Dec       total
Kali Progo
Labor requirement                        W /a    1.36       1.29      1.58      2.58      2.69      1.07     1.10      2.10      0.58      0.66       1.24      1.09       17.34
(Million man-days)                    W        1.23      1.16      0.48      1.33      1.65      1.48      0.45      0.74      1.29      0.51      1.10      1.36        12.d0
Marginal opportunity cost                W         134       132       136       147       148       131       132       141       126       127       132       131           -
(Rp/man-day)                          W         132       132       124       133       136       135       124       128       132       124       132        133           -
Average economic cost of farm labor  W             127       126       128       133       134       126       126       131       123       123       126       126         129
(Rp/man-day)                          W         126       126       122       127       128       128       122       124       126       122       12b        127         126
Economic cost of farm labor             W        172.7    162.5    202.2    344.4    360.5        134.3    138.6    274.1         71.3     81.r      156.2    136.8    2,235.1
(Rp million)                          W       155.0    146.2       58.6    168.3    211.2    188.7         54.9      91.8    162.5       62.2    138.6    174.5    1,612.6
Incremental economic cost of farm
labor (Rp million)                  W-W         17.7      16.3    143.6    176.1    149.3    -54.4         83.7    182.3    -91.2        19.3       17.6    -37.8        622.5
Way Seputih
Labor requirement                        W        1.06      0.67     0.66       1.18     0.74      0.19      0.23      0.34          -         -      0.50      1.05        6.62
(Million man-days)                    W        0.64      0.42      0.35      0.58      0.42      0.15      0.24      0.30      0.08      0.11      0.37      0.70         4.36
Marginal opportunity cost                W         365       225       225       410       250       155       160       170         -         -       190       365           -
(Rp/man-day)                          W         220       180       175       200       180       150       160       165       140       145        175      240            -
Average economic cost of farm labor  W             218       171       171       236       178       143       145       150         -         -       160       218         195
(Rp/man-day)                          W         169       155       153       165       155       140       145       148       135       137        152       174         159
Economic cost of farm labor             W       231.3    114.8    112.7    278.7    131.7          27.1      33.4      51.0          -         -      80.0    228.5      1,289.2
(Rp million)                          W       108.3      65.1      53.4      95.7      65.1      21.0      34.8      44.3      10.8      15.1      56.4     122.1        692.1 O
Incremental economic cost of farm
labor (Rp million)                  W-W       123.0      49.7      59.3    183.0       66.6       6.1      -1.4       6.7    -10.8    -15.1         23.6    106.4        597.1
Way Sekampunp - 400 MCM Dam (73,700 ha)
Labor requirement                       W        3.21       1.99     2.03      3.90      2.58      0.73      0.87      1.49          -         -      1.47      3.20       21.47
(Million man-days)                    W        1.46      1.16      0.82      1.37      1.85      0.73      0.60      0.71      0.37      0.27       1.17      1.70       12.21
Marginal opportunity cost               W          280       190       190       340       225       150       155       175         -         -       175       280            -
(Rp/man-day)                          W         175       165       155       170       185       150       145       150       140       135        165       idO           -
Average economic cost of farm labor  W             187       160       160       209       171       140       143       152         -         -       153       187          175
(Rp/man-day)                          W         153       148       143       150       158       140       138       140       135        133       148       155         149
Economic cost of farm labor             W       599.4    318.4    324.8    813.6    440.0    102.2    124.0    227.2                 -         -    224.2    597.0    3,770.8
(Rp million)                          W       222.7    171.1    116.9    205.5    291.4    102.2           82.5      99.4      50.0      35.8    172.6    263.5    1,813.6
Incremental economic cost of farm
labor (Rp million)                  W-W       376.7    147.3    207.9    608.1    148.6              0     41.5    127.8    -50.0    -35.8          51.6    333.5    1,957.2
/a  The project file contains details for these calculations.
Lb W = Future with project.
W = Future without project.



Table 7.4: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Rp billion)
C A P I T A L   C 0 S T S               Incremental                              C A P I T A L  C O S T S         Incremental
Land level-                        project                                                                    project
Year          Capital ing & other   O&M   Total            benefits                Year         Capital      O&M      Total          benefits
Way Seputih (25,000 ha)                                                   Kali Progo (33.900 ha)
1       1978             1.43          0          0    1.43             0            1      1978           1.78         0        1.78               0
2       1979             1.77          0          0    1.77             0            2       1979          5.01          0       5.01               0
3       1980             4.91      0.55       0.04    5.50           0.22            3      1980           4.68      0.03       4.71            0.09
4        1981            5.72      0.62        0.04    6.38          0.45            4       1981          4.72      0.06        4.78            0.52
5       1982             2.15      0.37        0.14    2.66          0.77            5       1982          4.12      0.10        4.22            1.38
6       1983                 0         0       0.14    0.14          1.52            6       1983          2.06      0.13        2.19            2.76
7       1984                 0         0      0.14    0.14           2.27            7       1984          1.12      0.14        1.26           4.32
8       1985                 0         0       0.14    0.14          2.79            8       1985             0      0.16       0.16            5.96
9       1986                 0         0      0.14    0.14           3.32            9       1986             0      0.16        0.16            7.26
10-30   1987-2007              0         0       0.14    0.14          3.79           10       1987              0     0.16        0.16            8.12
11      1988              0      0.16       0.16            8.55
12-30   1989-2007            0     0.16        0.16            8.70              n
Economic rate of return:                                                 14%         Economic rate of return:                                       21%
Way Sekampung:  400 MCM Dam (73,700 ha)
1     1978              3.24         0           0    3.24             0
2     1979              7.56      0.47           0    8.03             0
3     1980             15.13      0.52        0.06   15.71          0.40
4     1981             24.85      0.51        0.15   25.51          1.26
5     1982             24.85      Q 45       0.20   25.46           2.56
6     1983             21.61      1.55        0.27   23.43          4.24
7     1984             10.80      1.00       0.55   12.35           6.25
8     1985                  0         0       0.55    0.55          9.90
9     1986                  0         0       0.55    0.55         13.15
10     1987                 0          0      0.55    0.55          16.00
11     1988                 0          0      0.55    0.55          18.40
12-30   1989-2007              0         0       0.55    0.55         20.21
Economic rate of return:                                                 12%
0



Table 7.4: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Rp million)
C A P I T A L   C O S T S                Incremental                                    C A P I T A L   C O S T S              Incremental
Land level-                         project                                            Land level-                        project
Year           Capital ing & other   O&M   Total             benefits                   Year         Capital  ing & other    O&M    Total          benefits
Way Kandis (1,250 ha)                                                           Way Ketibung (3,500 ha)
1        1978                 0          0          0         0             0            1        1978             0            0            0        0          0
2        1979                 0          0          0         0             0            2        1979             0             0           0        0          0
3        1980               380          0          0       380             0            3        1980           475             0           0      475          0
4        1981               619         46          0       665             0            4        1981           808          115            0      923          0
5        1982               762         46          0       808             0            5        1982         1,235          115            0    1,350          0
6        1983               238         24           9      271            60            6        1983         1,235           70          20    1,325         120
7        1984                 0          0          9         9           133            7        1984           380           25          25       430        280
8        1985                 0          0           9        9           207            8        1985             0             0         25        25        460
9        1986                 0          0           9        9           280            9        1986             0             0         25        25        630
10        1987                 0          0           9        9           354           10        1987             0             0         25        25        810
11-32    1988-2009              0          0           9        9           367            11       1988              0            0          25       25        870
12-32    1989-207            0            0          25        25       886
Economic rate of return:                                                    12%         Economic rate of return:                                                 14%
m
0z
0
rjt
(b
0
1,



- 61 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following points:
(a) GOI would proceed with construction of the Segala Mider and Batutegi
dams in accordance with a time schedule. to be agreed between GOI
and the Bank, to ensure the full realization of benefits projected
to flow from the project works (para. 1.32);
(b) except for tertiary networks, the works to be constructed under
local competitive bidding procedures would be combined into a
number of suitable contracts (about two thirds of the total esti-
mated cost of such works in lots estimated to cost a minimum of
US$500,000 each, and the remainder in Lots estimated to cost a
minimum of US$150,000 each) that would enable large local contrac-
tors and joint ventures of smaller local firms to bid within
the categories or classes for which Government regulations require
them to be prequalified; to minimize late construction starts early
in the dry season, invitations to bid Eor such contracts would be
issued as bid documents are completed, and bids would be received
and processed without waiting for the DIP to be signed, but con-
tracts would be awarded only after the DIP is approved; and price
escalation clauses would be included in local civil works contracts
extending beyond one year (para. 3.46);
(c) PIBD would: (i) maintain separate accounts for the project;
(ii) engage auditors aceptable to the Bank to audit these accounts;
and (iii) submit to the Bank audited financial statements within
six months of the end of each fiscal year, together with the
auditor's comments and opinions (para. 3.49);
(d) the GOI would, before making any new appointment to the position of
Project Manager of PIBD, inform the Bank of the names, qualifica-
tions and experience of the persons considered for such appointment
and would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the GOI on the qualifications and experience of such
persons; and also, the GOI would cause PIBD to be adequately
staffed at all times with competent and qualified personnel
(para. 4.05).
(e) GOI would engage advisors to the PIBD on (i) administration and
finance; (ii) contracts and procuremen,t; (iii) operation and
maintenance; and (iv) to the DGWRD on loan administration and
project operation by December 31, 1978; all other expatriate and
counterpart consultants for PIBD by November 30, 1978; all local
consultants for tertiary development by December 31, 1979; and all
consultants and advisors to have qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment acceptable to the Bank (para.
4.09);
(f) GOI would cause the DGWRD to appoint a panel of consultants, whose
qualifications and experience would be acceptable to the Bank, to



- 62 -
reviesw the planning, design and construction of Segala Mider and
Batutegi Dams (and any additional dams as may be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank) throughout the period of planning, design
and construction of such dams, to ensutre the qualitv of their
designs and safety; and, cause such panel to be consulted prior to
the execution of all major changes in the design or construction of
any of the said dams (para. 4.11);
(g)  GOI would ensure that adequate credit, agricultural, extension
serv:Lces and inputs (including fertilizers, agricultural chemicals
and certified seeds) are made available to farmers in all project
areas and assist in the provision of drying and storage facilities
(para. 4.14);
(h)  a water-user association would be formed for each tertiary unit in
the project areas to participate in the unit's construction and to
take over its operation and maintenance after project completion
(para. 4.15);
(i)  adequate O&M funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation and actual
needs, would be allocated in future years for all Bank-assisted
irrigation systems; GOI would take the necessary steps to ensure
that at least half of the budgeted O&M funds would be released to
the subprojects by August 15 of each year and the balance, in equal
quarterly installments thereafter, until the total amounts are
fully released; to upgrade the standard of O&M services and to
effectively utilize the available funds, GOI would progressively
increase the number of qualified O&M personnel in the Bank-assisted
projects until the additional numbers to be established by GOI in
consultation with the Bank are employed; and GOI would inform
the IBank by December 31 of each year of the proposed number of O&M
personnel and per hectare O&M budget for each subproject; and by
June 1 of each following year, it would submit the approved O&M
budget and by October 1, the staffing provisions (para. 4.17);
(j)  a survey and evaluation of the economic and social benefits of the
project would be carried out by the survey and evaluation services
included in the Sixth Irrigation Project (para. 4.18); and
(k)  Following the completion of the Kali Progo and Lampung subprojects,
GOI would collect, in accordance with its laws and regulations, the
adjusted IPEDA based on the increased productivity of all irrigated
land rehabilitated and constructed under the project; the amounts
to be collected would be sufficient to ensure sound O&M practices
and to recover a reasonable portion of the capital costs during
the project's useful life, taking into account farmers' incentives
and ability to pay; and it would submit to the Bank for review
every two years the IPEDA rates collected for different land
classes (para. 6.14).
8.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$140 million, with a 20-year maturity including a grace period of
5 years. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



ANNEX I
Table I
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
KALI PROGO SUBPROJECT
Cost Estimate /a
Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total        LocaL   Foreign   Total    exchange   cost
----  (Rp million) ----        ---- (US$ million) ----    ----- () -----
Civil Works
Kulon Progo System
Kalibawang intake              320       470      790        0.8       1.1       1.9       60          5
Kalibawang canal                80        90      170        0.2       0.2       0.4       55          1
Papah & Depok canals           120       130      250        0.3       0.3       0.6       55          2
Kedungdang canal               120       130      250        0.3       0.3       0.6       55          1
Pekik Jamal weir               120       130      250        0.3       0.3       0.6       55          1
Pekik Jamal canal               40        40       80        0.1       0.1       0.2        55         1
Pengasih weir                   60        60       120       0.1       0.2       0.3       50          1
Galur/Serang drainage          310       310      620        0.8       0.7       1.5       50          4
Papah diversion                190       230      420        0.4       0.6       1.0       55          2
Sapon intake & canal           630       780    1,410        1.5       1.9       3.4       55          8
Subtotal                   1,990    2,370    4,360         4.8       5.7     10.5        54         26
Mataram System
Mataram canal                  560       680    1,240        1.4       1.6       3.0        55          7
Mataram secondary canals   1,040    1,040    2,080           2.5       2.5       5.0        50        13
Van der Wijck canal            320       390      710        0.8       0.9       1.7        55         4
Protobayan weir                130       160      290        0.3       0.4       0.7        55          2
Kebonongan canal               150       180      330        0.4       0.4       0.8        55          2
Subtotal                  2,200    2,450    4,650          5.4       5.8     11.2        52         28
Tertiary structures              970    1,190    2,160         2.3       2.9       5.2        55        13
Tertiary canals                  870       580    1,450        2.].      1.4       3.5        40          8
Offices & housing                150       100       250       0.4       0.2       0.6        40          2
Telecommunications                20        60        80        -        0.2       0.2        80          1
Subtotal civil works      6,200    6,750   12,950         15.0      16.2     31.2        52         78
Right-of-way                       870         -       870        2.L       -        2.1         -          5
Consultants & training             220       900    1,120        0.5       2.2       2.7        80          7
Mapping & surveys                   50       200       250        0.1      0.5       0.6        80          2
Vehicles & equipment                30       220       250        0.1      0.5       0.6        90          1
Engineering & administration   1,130         280    1,410         2.7      0.7       3.4        20          7
Base cost estimate           8,500    8,350   16,850        20.5      20.1      40.6        50       100
Physical contingencies          1,910    1,910    3,820         4.6       4.6       9.2        50         23
Expected price increases        4,130    4,130    8,260         9.9      10.0      19.9        50         49
Total project cost          14,540   14,390   28,930        35.0)    34.7       69.7        50       172
/a Does not include cost of feasibility studies for Sermo and Sambirito dams on the Kali Serang which
is included in the "Investigations and Designs" component of this project (Annex 1, Table 1, page 4).



ANNEX 1
Table I
Page 2
WAY SEPUTIH SUBPROJECT
Cost Estimate - First Stage /a
Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total    exchange   cost
----  (Rp million) ----         ---- (US$ million) ----    ----- (%M)…
Civil Works
Headworks & silt trap           130       200       330        0.3       0.5        0.8        60          6
Primary canal                 1,030    1,250    2,280          2.5       3.0        5.5        55         41
Secondary canals                 70       100       170        0.2       0.2       0.4         60          3
Drainage                        250       170       420        0.6        0.4       1.0        40          7
Access & inspection roads       210       210       420        0.5        0.5       1.0        50          7
Offices & housing                50        30        80        0.1        0.1       0.2        35          1
Sabtotal civil works        1,740    1,960    3,700          4.2       4.7       8.9        53          65
Right-of-way                         170         -       170        0.4        -        0.4         -           3
Consultants                           90       370       460        0.2       0.9       1.1        80           8
Mapping and surveys                   40       170       210        0.1       0.4       0.5        80           7
Vehicles & equipment                  50       450       500        0.1       1.1       1.2        90          9
Engineering & administration        460        120      580         1.1       0.3       1.4        20          8
Base cost estimate            2,550    3,070    5,620          6.1       7.4      13.5         55        100
Physical contingencies             530       670    1,200          1.3       1.6       2.9        55         25
Expected price increases           700       880    1,580          1.7       2.1       3.8        55         28
Total project cost           3,780    4,620    8,400          9.1      11.1      20.2         55        153
la  Cost of works included in Irrigation X.  Does not include cost of detailed design nor construction of
Segala Mider dam which is proposed as second stage. Cost of detailed design of Segala Mider Dam is
included in "Investigations and Designs" compenent of this project, Annex 1, Table 1, page 4, and
cost of construction would be included in a subsequent loan. Cost estimate for the total project is
presented in Annex 1, Table 2, page 1.



ANNEX I
Table 1
Page 3
WAY SEKAMPUNG SUBPROJECT
Cost Estimate - First Stape /a
Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total    exchange   cost
----  (Rp million) ----         ---- (US$ million) ----    ----- (%) -----
Civil Works
Headworks
Argoguruh weir                   220       280       500        0.5        0.7       1.2        55           2
Feeder canal                    940    1,140    2,080           2.2        2.8       5.0        55           7
Silt trap                        730       890     1,620        1.8        2.1       3.9        55           6
Subtotal                    1,890    2,310    4,200           4.5       5.6       10.1        55          15
Sekampung System
Primary canal                 1,010      1,230    2,240         2.4        3.0       5.4        55           8
Secondary canals                 800       980    1,780          1.9       2.4       4.3        55           6
Tertiary canals                 600        400     1,000         1.4       1.0       2.4        40           4
Tertiary structures              650       800     1,450         1.6       1.9       3.5        55           5
Subtotal                    3,060    3.410    6,470           7.3       8.3       15.6        53         23
Punggur Utara System
'deadworks (K'HZ)                130       160       290        0.3        0.4       0.7        55           1
Primary canal                   470        570    1,040         1.1        1.4       2.5        55           4
Secondary canals                690        850     1,540        1.7        2.0       3.7        55           5
Tertiary canals                  500       330       830         1.2       0.8       2.0        40           5
Tertiary structures             580        710    1,290          1.4       1.7       3.1        55           5
Subtotal                    2,370    2,620    4,990           5.7       6.3       12.0        52          18
Raman Otara System
Headworks                        150       180       330        0.4        0.4       0.8        55           1
Primary canal                   280        340       620        0.7       0.8        1.5        55           2
Secondary canals                240        300       540        0.6       0.7        1.3        55           2
Tertiary canals                  220       150       370        0.5        0.4       0.9        40           1
Tertiary structures              240       300       540        0.6        0.7       1.3        55           2
Subtotal                    1,130     1,270    2,400          2.8       3.0       5.8         52          8
Batanghari Utara System
Headworks                        170       200       370        0.4       0.5        0.9        55           1
Primary canal                   390        480       870        0.9        1.2       2.1        55           3
Secondary canals                320        390       710        0.8       0.9        1.7        55          3
Tertiary canals                  280       180       460        0.7       0.4        1.1        40           2
Tertiary structures              320       390       710        0.8       0.9        1.7        55           2
Subtotal                    1,480    1,640    3,120           3.6       3.9       7.5         52         11
Subtotal
irrigation system          9,930   11,250   21,180          23.9      27.1      51.0        53          75
Access & inspection roads          600       600    1,200          1.4       1.5       2.9        50           4
Offices & housing                  210       120       330         0.5       0.3       0.8        35           1
Telecommunications                  30       140       170        0.1        0.3       0.4        80           1
Subtotal civil works       10,770   12,110   22,880          25.9      29.2      55.1        53          81
Right-of-way                         370         -       370         0.9        -        0.9         -           I
Consultants and training             490    1,960    2,450           1.2       4.7       5.9        80           9
Mapping and surveys                   80       340        420        0.2       0.8       1.0        80           3
Vehicles & equipment                  40       380       420         0.1       0.9       1.0        90           1
Engineering & administration   1,420           360    1,780          3.4       0.9       4.3        20           5
Base cost estimate           13,170   15,150   28,320          31.7      36.5      68.2         54        100
Physical contingencies            3,070    3,610    6,680           7.4       8.7      16.1        54         24
Expected price increases          5,810    6,810   12,620         14.C       16.4      30.4        54         45
Total proiect cost             22,050   25.570   47,620          53.1      61.6      114.7        54        168
/a  Cost Df works included in Irrigation X.  Does not include cost of detailed design nor construction
of Batutegi Dam which is proposed as second stage. Cost of detailed design of Batutegi Dam is
included in "Investigations and Designs" component of this project, Annex 1, Table 1, page 4, and
cost of construction would be included in a subsequent loan. Cost estimate for the total project is
presented in Annex 1, Table 2, page 2.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 4
INVESTIGATIONS & DESIGN
Cost Estimate
Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total    exchange   cost
----(Rp million) ----           ---- (US$ million) ----  -… --… (%)… --
Kali Progo Subproiect
Feasibility studies
Serino & Sambiroto dams          60       230       290        0.1       0.6       0.7        80          9
Way Seputih Subproject
Detailed design
Segala Mider dam                110       430       540        0.3       1.0       1.3        80         16
Way Sekampung Subproiect /a
DetaiLed design
Batutegi dam                    150       600       750        0.4       1.4       1.8        80         23
Bekri irrigation system         100       400       500        0.2       1.0       1.2        80         15
Way Kandis subproject            20       100       120        0.1       0.2       0.3        80          4
Way Ketibung subproject          50       200       250        0.1       0.5       0.6        80          8
Subtotal                     320    1.300    1,620          0.8        3.1       3.9        80         49
Dumoga &i Gumbasa SubvroJiects /b
Aerial, photography &
contour mapping                  50       200       250        0.1       0.5       0.6        80          8
Soil eurveys                       20       100       120        0.1       0.2       0.3        80          4
Completion studies                  -       120       120         -        0.3       0.3        80           4
Subtotal                       70      420       490        0.2        1.0       1.2        80         16
Engineering & administration        260        70       330        0.6       0.2       0.8        20          10
Base cost estimate              820    2450    3,270           2.0       5.9       7.9        75        100
Physical contingencies             150       510       660        0.4       1.2       1.6        75          20
Expected price increases           110       350       460        0.3       0.8       1.1        75          14
Tota.l project costs          1,080    3,310    4,390          2.7       7.9      10.6        75        134
La  Investigations and studies for the Rumbia area are included in consulting services for the Way
Sekampung subproject (Annex 1, Table 1, page 3).
/b Vehicles and equipment are included, but total less than US$50,000.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
WAY SEPUTIH SUBPROJECT
Cost Estimate - Including Storage /a
Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total    exchange   cost
----  (Rp million) ----         ---- (US$ million) ----    ----- () -----
Civil Works
Irrigation system /b            1,410    1,790    3,200          3.4       4.3       7.7        56         26
Access & inspection roads /c   370          380       750        0.9       0.9       1.8        50          6
Offices & housing                 110        60       170        0.3       0.1       0.4        35          1
Segala Mider Dam
Embankment                   1,180    1,770    2,950           2.8      4.3       7.1         60         24
Spillway                        510      940    1,450          1.2      2.3       3.5         65         12
Outlet works                    320       590       910        0.8       1.4       2.2        65          8
Telecommunications                 20       100       120        0.1       0.2       0.3        80          1
Subtotal civil works       3,920    5,630    9,550          9.5      13.5      23.0        59          78
Right-of-way                        250         -       250        0.6        -        0.6         -          2
Consultants & training              180       730       910        0.4       1.8       2.2        80          8
Vehicles & equipment                  -       660       660         -        1.6       1.6       100          6
Engineering & Administration        530       130       660        1.3       0.3       1.6        20          6
Base cost estimate           4,860    7,150   12,030          11.8      17.2     29.0         59        100
Physical contingencies           1,210    1,740    2,950          2.9       4.2       7.1        59         25
Expected price increases         2,210    3,190    5,400          5.3       7.7      13.0        59         45
Total project cost          8,300   12,080   20,380         20.0      29.1      49.1         59        170
/a  Includes first stage cost as presented in Annex 1, Table 1, p. 2, and detailed design costs for
Segala Mider Dam as presented in Annex 1, Table 1, p. 4.
/b  Includes headworks and silt trap, primary and secondary canals and drainage of first stage (Annex 1,
Table 1, p. 2).
/c  Includes access and inspection roads for first stage plus access road to Segala Mider damsite.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 2
WAY SEKAMPUNG SUBPROJECT
Cost Estimate - Including 400 MCM Storage and Bekri /a
Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign  Total    exchange   cost
---- (Rp million) ----        --- (US$ million) ---    ----- (%)
Civil Works
Way Sekampung
irrigation systemv /b          9,950  11,210   21,160         24.0    27.0    51.0           53       26
Access & inspection roads /c   1,350   1,350    2,700            3.3      3.2      6.5         50         3
Offices & housing /c                300      160      460        0.7      0.4      1.1         35         1
Batutegi Dam                    18,510  22,620   41,130         44.6    54.5    99.1           55        50
Bekri system                      2,370   3,400    5,770         5.7      8.2    13.9          59         7
Telecommunications /c                50     200       250        0.1      0.5      0.6         80         1
Subtotal civil works        32,530  38,940   71,470         78.4    93.8   172.2          54        88
Right--of-way /d                    1,120        -    1,120         2.7       -      2.7          -         1
Consultants & training              1,120   4,480    5,600          2.6    10.9    13.5          80         7
Vehicles & equipment                    -      870       870          -     2.1      2.1        100         1
Engine!ering & administration       2,160      540    2,700        5.2      1.3      6.5         20         3
Base cost estimate            36,930  44,83p   81,760         88.9   108.1   197.0           54      100
Physical contingencies             9,390  11,030   20,420        22.6    26.6    49.2           54        25
Expected price increases          24,440  28,680   53,120        58.9    69.1   128.0           54        65
Total project cost           70,760  84,540  155,300        170.4   203.8   374.2          54       190
/a  Includes first stage cost as presented in Annex 1, Table 1, page 3, and detailed design costs for
Batutegi Dam and Bekri area as presented in Annex 1, Table 1, page 4.
/b  Includes irrigation system as presented in Annex 1, Table 1, page 3.
/c  Includes access and inspection roads, offices and housing and telecommunications for first stage
and access road to Batutegi Dam.
/d  Includes US$1.3 m:illion for land compensation and resettlement cost for Batutegi reservoir area.



ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Expected Price Increases
Calend.ar year
1978  1979  1980  1.981  1982  1983  1984  Total
Estimated Annual Inflation Rate (Z)
Civil works                        14    12    10       8      8     8      8
Equipment and services              8      8      8     7      7     7      7
Estimated Annual Expenditures /a  ----------  S$ million -----------------
Civil Works
Kali Progo                        2.0   7.8   7.8   7.8   7.8   4.0   1.8   39.0
Way Seputih                       2.2   2.7   3.4   2.2   0.6    -         -    11.1
Way Sekampung                     6.9  13.8  13.8  13.9  13.8   6.7    -    68.9
Subtotal                       11.1  24.3  25.0  23.9  22.2  10.7   1.8  119.0
Equipment and Services
Kali Progo                        0.8   1.6   1.9   2.9   1.5   1.1   1.0   10.8
Way Seputih                       1.0   1.2   1.7   0.9   0.5    -         -     5.3
Way Sekampung                     1.2   2.6   3.0   3.6   3.7   1.3    -    15.4
Investigations & designs          3.4   4.0   2.1    -       -      -      -     9.5
Subtotal                      6.4   9.4   8.7   7.4   5.7   2.4   1.0   41.0
Expected Price Increases
Civil works                         0.6   5.5   8.8  10.7  12.4   7.4   1.5   46.9
Equipment and services              0.3   1.6   1.8   1.7   1.4   1.1   0.4    8.3
Total                         0.9   7.1  10.6  12.4  13.8   8.5   1.9   55.2
/a Cost of Advisory Team (US$0.8 million) not included in this table.



ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Calendar year
Total  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
------------------US$ million-----------------
Civil works
Kali Progo Subproject             31.2    1.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   3.2   1.5
Way Seputih Subproject             8.9    1.7   2.3   2.7   1.8   0.4         -      -
Wiay Sekampung Subproject         55.1    3.5  11.0  11.2  11.0  11.0   7.4          -
Subtotal                    95.2    6.5  19.6  20.2  19.1  17.7  10.6   1.5
Right-of-way                         3.4    0.5   0.9   0.9   0.6   0.4   0.1          -
Mapping and survey                   2.7    0.5   1.5   0.7        -      -      -     -
Veh:Lcles and equipment              2.9    0.6   1.1   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.1          -
Consultants and training            16.9    1.1   3.6   4.0   3.5   3.5   1.0   0.2
Engineering and atdministration    9.9    0.8   2.2   2.2   2.2   1.0   0.8   0.7
Base cost estimate         131.0   10.0  28.9  28.6  25.7  22.8  12.6   2.4
Physical contingencies              29.8    2.3   6.2   6.3   5.9   5.1   3.4   0.6
Expected price increases            55.2    0.9   7.2  10.6  12.4  13.8   8.4   1.9
Total project cost         216.0   13.2  42.3  45.5  44.0  41.7  24.4   4.9



ANNEX I
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal
year and                                  Cumulative
semester                                 disbursements
(US$ '000 equivalent)
FY79
First                                         500
Second                                      5,000
FY80
First                                      13,000
Second                                     22,000
FY81
First                                      32,000
Second                                     43,000
FY82
First                                      55,000
Second                                     67,000
FY83
First                                      80,000
Second                                     95,000
FY84
First                                     110,000
Second                                    125,000
FY85
First                                     135,000
Second                                    140,000



ANNEX 1
Table 6
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Cost               Loan
Total       Foreign       amount
------    US$ million--------
]I. Civil Works
PIBD                                         95.2         50.1        103.1
Physical contingencies                       23.8         12.6           -
Expected price increases                     28.3         15.0           -
Subtot:al                             147.3         77.7        103.1
II.  Vehicles and Equipment
PIBD                                          2.9          2.6          3.6
Physical contingencies                         -            -            -
Expected price increases                      0.7          0.6           -
Subtotal                                3.6          3.2          3.6
III.  Consulting Services and Start-Up Vehicles
PIBD                                         15.9         12.7         17.3
Physical contingencies                         -            -            -
Expected price increases                      1.4          1.1           -
Subtotal                               17.3         13.8         17.3
IV. Training
PIBD                                          1.0          0.8          1.1
Physical contingencies                         -            -            -
Expected price increases                      0.1          0.1          -
Subtotal                                1.1          0.9          1.1
V. Mapping and Surveys
PIBD                                          2.7          2.2         2.7
Physical contingencies                         -            -           -
Expected price increases                       -            -           -
Subtotal                                2.7          2.2          2.7
VI. Unallocated
Balance of physical contingencies             6.0          3.5         5.4
Balance of expected price increases          24.7         12.5         6.8
Right-of-way acquisition                      3.4           -           -
Engineering and administration                9.9         2.1           -
Subtotal                               44.0         18.1         12.2
Total                                 216.0        115.9        140.0



ANNEX I
Table 7
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X PROJECT
Vehicles and Equipment
Item                                   Quantity    Unit cost    Total cost
---   (US -)-
I. Kali Propo
Vehicles
Jeeps                                 23           7,000        160,000
Subtotal                                                   160.000
Equipment
Hydraulic excavators                   1          50,(00         50,000
Draglines                              1          50,000         50,000
Bulldozers (04)                        2          40,000         80,000
Dump trucks                            5          18,(00         90,000
Hydrographic equipment                L.S.        80,)00         80,000
Survey equipment                      L.S.        30,000         30,000
Office equipment & supplies           L.S.        60,000         60,000
Subtotal                                                  440-000
Total                                                     600,000
II. Way Seputih
Vehicles
Jeeps                                 15           7,000        105,000
Subtotal                                                  105,000
Equipment
Bulldozers (D50)                       6          50,000        300,000
Bulldozers (D60)                       3          60,000        180,000
Scrapers (Tractor-pulled)              4         90,000         360,000
Road Rollers (12 T)                    3          12,000         36,000
Ditchers                               4          15,000         60,000
Hydrographic equipment               L.S.         50,000         50,000
Survey equipment                     L.S.        25,000          25,000
Workshop equipment                   L.S.         14,000         14,000
Office equipment & supplies           L.S.        70,000         70,000
Subtotal                                                1,095,000
Total                                                   1,200.000
III. Way Sekampung
Vehicles
Jeeps                                 20           7,000        140,000
Subtotal                                                  140.000
Equipment
Bulldozers (D50)                       4         50,000        200,000
Bulldozers (D60)                       2         60,000         120,000
Scrapers (Tractor-pulled)              2         90,000         180,000
Ditchers                               4         15,000          60,000
Truck cranes                           2         30,000          60,000
Workshop equipment                   L.S.        50,000          50,000
Hydrographic equipment               L.S.        80,000          80,000
Survey equipment                     L.S.        30,000         30,000
Office equipment & supplies          L.S.        80,000          80,000
Subtotal                                                  860.000
Total                                                   1,000,000
Note: In addition, six vehicles for Dumoga-Gumbasa investigations and four
vehicles for the Advisory Team will be procured.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Crop Production Costs: Present (1978) /a
L  A  M  P  U  N  G          P  R  O    J  E  C  T  S /b                                                          K  A  L  I           P  R  0  G  0
Wet Season                                      Dry Season                                  Wet Season                               Dry Season
Rice                                                  Soybean/d Cassava/e                       Rice                   Soybeans/f   Tobacco/f   IVregtabled/
Upland   Rainfed   Irrigated I   Irrigated TI   Irrigated I   Irrigated II   Rainfed  Rainfed                       Rainfed   Irrigated  Irrigated    IrrigatedF    Irrigated    Irrigated
Cash Inputs (Rp'000/ha) ap
Cultivation             12.0(12.0) 15.0(15.0) 15.0(15.0)    15.0(15.0)            15.0(15.0)    .15.0(15.0)            0    (0) 8.0 (8.0)  20.0(20.0) 20.0(20.0) 15.0(15.0)             0    (0)  17.0(17.0)    17.0(17.0)
Seed                     3.6 (3.2)  2.9 (2.5)  2.9  (2.5)          2.9 (2.5)       2.9  (2.5)       2.9  (2.9)       4.7  (4.1) 2.0  (2.0)   3.3  (2.6)  4.2  (3.5)  4.2  (3.5)  4.7  (4.1)    9.0  (9.0)    18.0(18.0)
Pertilizer                  0  (0)   5.2  (3.6) 11.9 (8.2)    13.2 (8.9)          11.9 (8.2)       13.2 (8.9)        1.4 (1.1)    0   (0)   6.4  (4.3) 13.3 (8.9) 13.3  (8.9)   1.9 (1.4)  25.4(17.8)    13.3 (8.9)
Agrochemicals               0  (0)   2.1 (0.5)  4.1  (0.9)         4.1  (0.9)       4.1  (0.9)      4.1  (0.9)       2.1  (0.5)   0    (0)       0    (0)  4.2  (1.0)  4.2  (1.0)  2.1  (0.5)   4.1  (0.9)    41.0 (9.0)
Harvesting               2.2(1.9)    3.9 (3.4)  5.8 (5.1)          6.5 (5.7)       4.1  (3.6)       6.5  (5.7)         0   (0) 2.0  (2.0)   4.5  (3.5)  8.7  (6.8)  8.7  (6.8)          0    (0)   9.6  (9.6)       3.0 (3.0)
Other                     1.2(1.2)    1.9 (1.9)  2.3  (2.6)        2.3 (2.3)       2.0  (2.1)       2.3  (2.3)       1.8 (1.8) 2.0  (2.0)    1.8 (1.8)  2.6  (2.6)  2.6  (2.6)   2.3 (2.3)    2.9  (2.9)            4.7  (4.7)
Interest                    0(1.7)       0 (3.1)      0 (2.7)        0 (2.7)          0 (2.7)         0 (2.7)          0 (0.5)    0 (2.0)        0 (3.8)      0 (3.2)      0 (3.2)       0 (0.7)       0 (4.8)        0 (3.4)
Total cash inouts  19.0(20.0) 31.0(30.0) 42.0(37.0)    44.0(38.0)               40.0(35.0)       44.0(38.0)      10.0 (8.0)14.0(16.0)  36.0(36.0) 53.0(46.0) 48.0  (41.0) 11.0 (9.0)  68.0(62-0)  97-0(64.0)
Labor Inputs (man-day/ha)
Land preparation             40           40          40             40                40            40                 25         15            40           40           40             20              60            60
Planting                      5           35          35             35                35            35                 20         10            40           40           40             35              25            25
Crop management              35           40          65             65                50            65                 25         25            45           65           65             25              45            75
Harvesting                   40           45          50             50                45            50                 30         40            15           55           55             35             120           120
Total labor inputs        120          160         190            190               170           190                100         90           170          200          200            115            250            280
/a  Economic prices for use in the economic analysis, and based on world prices for rice, soybeans and fertilizer.  Figures in
parentheses are financial prices for use in farm budgets.  See Chapter 6. Table 6.2 for individual prices used.  All prices
are at constant mid-1978 levels.
/b  These production costs are for Way Seputih, Way Sekampung, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung projects.  Upland and rainfed  rice,
soybean and cassava production costs can be assumed identical for all projects.
/c  Irrigated I = Way Seputih; Irrigated II = Way Sekampung.
Ld  Soybeans are grown on the residual moisture from the preceding rice crop.
/e Cassava is listed as a dry season crop since it is planted in late dry season to early wet season and harvested ten months
later in the dry season.
/f  Soybeans and tobacco are grown on residual moisture of preceding rice crop plus are partially irrigated.
/R  See Table 3 for physical input assumptions.                                                                                                                                                                                        |x



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Crop Production Costs:  Future Without Project 
LAMPUNG PROTECTS lb                                                                                                           KAI  PROGO
Rice /c                                                  Sobas/     Ca.av..                                    Ri-e                           Soybe-as   f   Tobacco If    Vegetables  If
Wet nea...                                         Dry season                Dry_season    Dry-season                  Wet season               Dry season    Dry seaSon    Dry season              Dry season
1'Ipland        Sjinfed         Irrigated  I    IrrigtdI gate             a -gted I    riae I            Rainfed          Rainfed         Ra_mPe~d        Irriga~ted       ITrigated        Irrigated        Irrigated         Irrigated
Cash inpots (Rp'OOO/ha) /g
Cultivation                      12.0 (12.0)   15.0 (15.0)   15.0 (15.0)              15.0 (15.0)   15.0  (15.0)    15.0 (15.0)              5      (5)    8.5   (8.0)   20.0  (20.0)   20.0 (20.0)   10.0 (15.S)                5      (5)   17.0 (17.0)    17.0 (17.0)
Deed                              5.0   (4.2)    4.7   (3.9)    4.0   (3.3)            5.0   (4.2)    4.0   (3.3)         5.0   (4.2)    5.9   (4.7)    2.0   (2.0)    4.9   (3.9)    5.7   (4.6)    5.7   (4.6)    5.9   (4.7)    9.0   (9.03                  18.0  (18.0)
Fertili.er                           0      (0)    6.6   (5.2)   33.1 (26.2)          19.4  (15.4)   33.1  (26.2)    19.4 (15.4)    1.8   (1.5)               0     (0)    8.2   (6.5)   25.7 (20.4)   25.7  (20.4)    2.4   (1.9)   32.6  (25.9)    17.0  (13.4)
Agr-che.i.als                        0      (5)    2.1   (0.5)    8.5   (2.0)          4.7   (1.1)    8.5   (2.0)         4.7   (1.1)    2.1   (0.5)         0      (0)    2.1   (0.5)    6.3   (1.5)    6.3   (1.5)    2.1   (0.5)    4.1   (0.9)    41.0   (9.0)
Harvesting                        3.0   (2.5)    6.0   (0.0)   11.4   (9.5)            9.6   (8.0)   12.0  (10.0)         9.0   (7.5)        0      (5)    2.0   (2.0)    6.2   (5.0)   11.9   (9.5)   11.9   (9.5)              0      (5)    9.6   (9.6)        3.4   (3.4)
Other                              1.0   (1.0)    2.6   (2.6)    3.0   (3.0)           3.3   (3.3)    3.4   (3.4)         2.9   (2.9)    2.2   (2.2)    2.0   (2.0)    1.6   (1.6)    2.4   (2.4)    2.4   (2.4)    2.6   (2.6)    3.7   (3.7)                    4.6   (4.6)
Interest                             0  (2.3)         5  (2.8)        0  (3.2)            0  (3.0)        0  (3.1)          0  (2.9)         5   (1.1)        0   (2.0)       0   (2.5)        0  (2.6)         0  (2.6)         5  (1.3)         0   (4.9)         0  (3.6)
Total  as    npt             21.0  (22.0)   37.0 (35.0)   75.0 (62.0)             57.0 (50.0)   76.0 (63.0)    56.0 (49.0)   12.0 (10.0)   14.0  (16.0)   43.0 (40.0)   72.0 (61.0)   67.   (56.0)   13.0 (1.LI-0)   76.0  (71.0)   101.0  (69.-0)
Labor inputs (man-day/ha)
Land preparation                      40               40               40                 40               40                40              25               1 5              40               40               40               20              60                 60
Planting                               5               35               35                 35               35                35              20               10               40               40               40               35               25                25
Crop  -aagelsent                      35               40               75                 65               75                65              25               25               45               65               65               25               45                80
Harventing                            40               45               60                 50               60                50              30               40               45               55               55               35             120                125
Total labor  inpot               _120             160              210                190             210                190             100               90              170              200              200              115             250                290
Futur  wit  Proect   t Pul Deelopent a
LAMPUNGO PROJECTS /b                                                                                                     KAI  PROGO
Rice-                                                               Soybeans  /d                    Rice                       Soybeans          Tobacco       Vegetables
WetsesnPysao                                                                    Dry season                           Wet season          Dry seaso n        Dry season    Dry season    Dry season
Ra~infed        Irrigated I         riae I            Irrigated III    Irrigated I    Irrigate                                      _J8rrgaedII  R fPd  Irrigated           Irrigated          Irrigated    Trrigated           Irrigated
Cash inputs (Rp'000/ha) _jj
Cultivation                     15.0   (15.0)    15.0 (15.0)    15.0 (15.0)               15.0 (15.0)        15.0 (15.0)    15.0 (15.0)             15.0 (15.0)            0      (0)    20.0 (20.0)         15.0  (15.0)           0      (0)   17.0 (17.0)   17.0  (17.0)
Seed                             4.0    (3.3)       4.0   (3.3)       4.0   (3.3)          4.0   (3.))        4.0   (3.3)       4.0   (3.3)          4.0   (3.3)        6.6   (5.3)        4.2   (3.3)        4.2   (3.3)         6.6   (5.3)    9.0   (9.5)   18.0 (18.0)
Fertili-e                       33.1   (26.2)    33.1 (26.2)    33.1 (26.2)               33.1 (26.2)        33.1  (26.2)    33.1 (26.2)            33.1 (26.2)         3.1   (2.4)    33.9  (26.9)          33.9  (26.9)         3.7   (2.9)   35.7  (28.3)   27.0 (21.4)
Agrocheniools                    8.5    (2.0)       8.5   (2.0)       5.5   (2.0)          8.5   (2.0)        8.5   (2.0)       9.5   (2.0)          8.5   (2.0)        6.2   (1.4)        8.5   (2.0)        8.5   (2.0)         8.2   (1.8)   20.5   (4.5)   41.0   (9.0)
Harvesting                       6.0    (5.0)    12.6   (0.5)    13.5  (11.2)             11.4   (9.5)       12.D  (10.0)    12.6 (10.5)            10.8   (9.0)           0      (0)    14.0  (11.2)        14.0 (11.2)            0      (U)   14.4 (14.4)    4.0   (4.12
Other                            4.4    (3.4)       3.8   (3.8)       3.9   (3.9)          3.0   (3.0)        3.4   (3.4)       3.8   (3.8)          2.6   (2.6)        3.1   (3.1)        3.4   (3.4)        3.4   (3.4)         3.5   (3.2)    3.4   (3.4)    5.0   (5.0)
int-eret                         0       (3.1)      0      (3.2)         0   (3.4)           0  (3.0)            0   (3.1)         0  (3.2)            0  (2.9)            0   (0.8)       0     (3.2)           5   (3.2)          0   (0.8)        0   (5.4)        5   (3.6)
Toalcah  npt                71.0   (58.0)    77.0 (64.0)    78.0 (65.0)               75.0  (62.0)       76.0  (63.0)    77.0 (64.0)            76.0 (41.0)        19.0 (13.0)    84.0  (70.0)           79.0 (6§5.0)        22.0  (14.0)  100.0  (82 .0)  112.0  (78.0)
Labor inpatn (nan--day/ha)
Land preparation                     40                 40                40                   40                40                 40                   40                 25               40                   40                  20               60               60
Planting                             35                 35                35                   35                35                 35                   35                 20                40                  40                  35               25               25
Crop managennot                      65                 75                75                   75                75                 75                   75                 30                90                   90                 44               55               85
Haresting                            50                 60                60                   55                60                 60                   55                 35                60                   60                 36              160              130
~505~jahOt louts         9-0               210               210                  205              2-10                210                  205                 110             230                  230                _135              300              300
/a See footnote  /a, Table  1.
/b   See footnote /b, Table  1.
c Irrigated I - Way Seputih.  Way Kietibuog; Irrigtetd II    Way Sekanpung; Ircigatod  III  = Way K.ndis.
/d   See footnote  Id. Table  1. 
/e   See footnote /e. Table  1.
/f See footnote /f, Table 1.
/R see footnote :Li, Table 1.



C5717/J16840/D1468/A-23/25
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Crop Production Coats: Physical Inputs
La=pung proiects                                                                                                 Kali Pro.o
Rice /a                                                          Soybeans  C- sa                        Rice                   Sybea        Tobacco    Vegetables
Wet sea.nc                                                   Dry season                         Drv season              Wet season          Drv season                Drv seasso
Input./ha                                       Upland  R.isled   Irrigated I  Irrigated II  Irrigated III  Irrigated I  Irrigated SI  Orrigated III  Rilofed   Rai.fed   Rainfed   Irrigsted    Irrigated   Irrigated  Irrigated   Irrigated
Present (1978)
Cultivation         - (animal-day) /b               12       15           15               15                                15               15                            -            a          20         20            15            -             17           17
Seed               - (kg)                          50        40           40              40                                 40              40                            30      10,000/c         40        40             40           30        12,000/c    18,000/d
Fertili-er          - (kg) Ures                      -       30           70              90                                 70               90                            -            -          50       105            100            -           125           100
TSP/n                    -       20           45              35                                 45              35                            15           -           10        25             25           20           125            25
Agro-he=icalc       - (1) Dia.inon                   -      0.5            1                1                                 1                1                          0.5            -           -          I             1          0.5              1           10
(g) Zi-nc ph.phide            -         -           -               50                                  -              50                             -           -           -         50            50             -             -            -
Harvesting costs -(  of crop yield/ho)               3        3            3                3                                 3                3                             -           3           3          3             3            -              3            1
Interest /f         - (%/eonth)                      2        2          1.5             1.5                                1.5              1.5                             2           2           2       1.5            1.5            2              2            2
FPtrst Withost Prolect
Cultivation        - (anImal-day)                   12       15           15               15                                15               15                            -            8         20         20             15            -            17            17
Seed                - (kg)                         50        40           30              40                                 30               40                           30      10,000/c         40        40             40           30        12,000/c    18,000/d
Fertili-er          - (kg) Urea                      -       30          150              100                               150              100                             -           -         50        150            150             -          125           100
TSP                     -        20          100              45                                100               45                           15           _          10         40             40           20           125            25
Agroche=icals       - (1) Diasinen                   -      0.5            2              1.1                                 2              1.1                          0.5                     0.5         1.5           1.5          0.5              1           10
(x,) Zinc phosphide           -        -          100               60                               100               60                             -           -           -         50            50             -             -            -
Harvesting costn - (% of crop yield/ha)              3        3            3                3                                 3                3                             -           3           3          3             3            -              3            1
Interest           - (%/.ooth)                       2      1.5            1            1.25                                  1            1.25                              2           2           1         1              1            2             2             2
Future With ProJect
Coltivation         - (animal-day)                           15           15               15              15                15               15              15             -                                20             15            -            17            17
Seed                - (kg)                                   30           30               30              30                30               30              30           30                                 30             30           30        12,000/c    18,000/d
Fertili-er          - (kg) Urea                             150          150              150             150               150              150             150             -                               200            200            -           125          150
TSP                             100          100             100              100               100             100              100           25                                 50             50           30           150           50
Agr-chenicals       - (1) Diei.non                            2            2                2               2                 2                2                2         1.5                                  2              2            2              5           10
(g=) Zinc phosphide                  100          100              100              100              100              100              100            -                                100           100             -             -            -
Harvesting costs -(T o  crop yield/ha)                        3            3                3               3                 3                3                3            -                                 3              3            -              3            1
Interert           -(2/mn.th)                                 1            1                1               1                 1                1                1            2                                 1              1            2             2             2
/a  Irrigated I   Way Seput1h, and Way Ketibung with project; Irrigated II - Way Seka=pang; Irrigated III - Way Xandia.
/b Hiring cost is Rp 1,000/animal-day for buffalo pair and driver.
/c   10,000 sticks or seedlings.
Ld  Rupiab.
;e TSP - Triple eoperphonphate.
/f  Rice       - interest is tharged on 900  (cash ipats - harvesting  coist) for seven =onths.
Soybeans - interest is  sharged  n 400  of cesh inputs for ihree nosthe.
Cassava  - interest is charged on 901 (cah inpus  - harvesting cents) lot ten months.
Tobacco  - interest is charged as 901 (cash inputs - harvesting costs) for three  onths.



ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Monthly Crop Labor Requirements
(man-day/ha)
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun    Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec    Total
Lampung
Wet Season
Upland rice          P/a   12        10      5      4     27     15      -       -      -      -     20     27       120
W       12     10      5       4     27     15      -      -      -       -     20     27      120
Rainfed rice         P       30      28      8     20     17      8      -       -      -      -     20     29       160
W       30     28      8     20      17      8      -      -      -       -     20     29      160
W       34     26     20     32      26      -      -      -      -       -     20     32      190
Irrigated rice       P       34     26     20      32     26      -      -      -      -       -     20     32      190
Wi      34     26     20      32     26      -      -      -      -       -     20     32      190
W       44     27     23      37     15      -      -      -      -      -      20     44      210
Dry Season
Irrigated rice       P        -       -      -     20     45     45     22     33.    25       -      -      -      190
W        -      -      -      20     45     45     22    32'    25        -      -      -      190
W        -      -     10    42       53     24     28    52I      -      -       -      -      210
Soybean              P        -      -       -     12     27     18      9     19      15      -      -      -       100
W        -      -      -      12    27      18      9     19     15      -       -      -      100
W        -      -     10     20      20     16     20     24[     -      -       -      -      110
Cassava              P         5      5      3      3      2      2    20      20       7    13       5      5        90
W        5      5      3       3      2      2    20      20      7     13       5      5       90
Kali Progo
Wet Season
Rainfed rice         P       32      28      9    20      19     10      -             -       -     20     32      170
-W      32     28      9    20       19     10      -             -      -     20     32       170
Irrigated rice       P       37     35      15    30      21     10      -             -       -     20     32      200
TA      37     35      15    30      21     10      -             -      -     20      32      200
W       40     38     37     36      27      -      -             -      -     20      32      230
Dry Season
Irrigated rice       P        -       -      -     16    43      61     18     13     44      -       -      -      200
W        -      -      -     16    43       61     18    1.3    44       -      -      -       200
W        -      -     10    44       57     32     32     55      -      -      -      -       230
Irrigated soy-
bean I            P         -      -      -      10    25      20     15    23      22      -      -      -       115
W        -      -      -      10    25      20     15     23     22      -      -      -       115
W        -      -     10    25      25      20     25     33      -      -      -      -       135
Irrigated soy-
bean II           W         -      -      -      -      -      10    25      25     20     25     30      -      135
Irrigated tobacco P           -      -      -       -    50      44     18     33     50     55      -      -       250
W        -      -      -      -    50       44     18    33      50     55      -      -      250
W        -      -      -      -     50      55     22     41     63     69      -      -      300
Irrigated vege-
tables            P         -      -      -      -      -      -       -     30     60     80     65     45      280
'a       -      -      -      -       -      -      -     30     60     80     70     50      290
W        -      -      -      -      -       -      -    50      80     90     80      -      300
/a P = Present
T = Future without project
W = Future with project



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Crop Budgets /a
Rico lb                                                       Soybeans  Cassava                    Rice                 Soybeans   Tobacco   Vesatables
Wet season                                              DI                                  rWet    son _                                                     Dr  season
Inputs/ha                               Upland  Raiefed  Irrigated I  Irrigated II  Irrigated Ill  Irrigated I  Iigtd II  Irrigated  III  Rainfed   Rainfed  Rainfed  Irigatd    Irigated  Irrigated   Irrigated  Irrigated
Present ( 1978)
Yield (tns/ha)                             1.0      1.8         2.7             3.0                             1.9             3.0                           0.4         8.0      1.8        3.5           3.5          0.5         0.4         15.0
Fars-gate price (Rp 000/ha)                 63       63          63              63                              63              63                           135           9       65          65           65          135         800           20
Gross production value  (Rp'000/ha)         63      113          170            189                             120             189                             54         72      117         228          228           68         320          300
Productios costs, occluding
labor (Rp'000/ha)                         20       30          37              38                              35              38                             8          16       36         46            41           9           62          64
Net productios value, -clodiog
labor (Rp'000/ha)                         43       83         133             151                              85            151                             46         56        81        182           187          59          258         236
Labor r-quirementa (sos-day/ha)            120      160          190            190                             170             190                           100          90      170         200          200          115         250          280
Foner Withcot Project
Yield (too/ha)                             1.0      2.0         3.6             3.2                             4.0             3.0                           0.4         8.0      2.0        3.8           3.8          0.5         0.4         17.0
Furs-gate price (Rp'000/hb)                 83       83          83              83                              83              83                           156           9       83          83           83          156         800           20
Gross productios value (Rp'000/ha)          83      166         299             266                             33Z             249                             62         72      166         315          315           78         320          340
Production costs, escluding
labor (Rp'000/ha)                         22       35          61              50                              63              49                            10          16       40         61            56          11           71          69
Net productios val-e, osclndiog
labor (Rp'000/ha)                        61       131         238             216                             269            200                             52          56     126         254           259          67          249         271
Labor requir-e..t. (mao-day/ha)            120      160         210             190                             210             190                            100         90      170        200           200          115         250          290
Future With Pro1ect
Yield (too/ha)                                      2.0         4.2             4.5             3.8             4.0             4.2             3.6           0.6                             4.5           4.5          0.8         0.6         20.0
Far-gate price (Rp'000/ha)                           83          83              83              83              83              83              83            156                             83            83          156         800           20
Gross producti-o  voice (Rp 000/he)                 166          349            374             315             332             349             299             94                             374          374          125         480          400
Prod-utio- costs, e-c1nding
labor (Rp'000/ha)                                  58          64              65              62              63              64             61             13                              70            65          14           82           78
Net prod-ction value, soclodiog
labor (Rp'000/ha)                                 108         285             309             253             269             285            238             81                             304          309          111          398         322
Labor r-quir-ments (mao-day/ha)                     190         210             210             205             21?             210             205            110                            930           230          132         344          3Uo
/s  Financial pri-es end Costs are coed, based on Tablr 6.2, cod Ac... 2, Tablen I cod 2.
/b  Irrigated I - Way Seputih and Way KetibunR; Irrigated II - Way Sebkapung; Ircigated III = Way Kandin.
10-9t



Annex 2
Table 6
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Farm Budgets
Way-Seputih
1.25 ha Farum                  _          2.0 ha Faria
Unit       Present   W Project   W project          Present   W Project   W pruject
Cropped area (inside project area) /a
Wet season - upland rice                         (ha)                                                   0.70          0.80             -
- rainfed rice                      (ha)              -            -          0.17             -             -         0.27
- irrigated rice                    (ha)          1.00           1.0          0.83             _             -         1.33
- fallow                            (ha)              -            -             -         0.25              -             -
Dry season - irrigated rice                      (ha)          0.17          0.16          0.15             -             -         0.24
- soybean                           (ha)          0.11          0.10          0.24             -             -         0.38
- cassava                           (ha)              -            -             -          0.65         0.80              -
Total cropped area                           (ha)         1.28          1.26          1.39          1.35          1.60         2.22
Cropping intensity                                  (X)           128           126           139            84           100           139
Crop production - paddy                             (kg)        3,020         4,240         4,430           700           800        7,090
- soybean                        (kg)            40            40           140             -            -           230
- cassava                        (kg)             -             -             -        5,200         6,400             -
Gross value of production /b                     (Rp'000)         196           358           390            91           124           624
Production costs, excluding labor /b             (Rp'000)          44            72            77            24            30           122
Hired labor cost - harvest /c                    (Rp'000)          23            42            44             5             8            71
- other /d                    (Rp'000)           -             -            3             -             -            26
Net value of production                          (Rpi' 000)       129           244           266            62            86          405
Land tax (IPEDA) /e                              (Rp'000)            5            6            10             3             3            16
Farm irrigation system costs /f                  (Rp'OO0)           -             2             4             -             -             6
Cropped area (outside project area)                (ha)          0.25          0.25          0.25           0.4          0.4           0.4
Net crop income from outside project area  (Rp'000)                 14           14            14            22            22            22
Total net crop income                     (Rp'000)         138           250           266            81           105          405
Other income /g                                  (Rp'000)          90            90            90            60            60            40
Net farm income                                  (Rp'000)         228           340           356           141           165           445
Total farm labor requirements                   (man-day)         256           270           287           179           204          459
Ia An average 80% of the Way Seputih farms' area fall within the project area.
/b Based on Table 5.
/c Calculated at 12% of gross paddy production.
/d Basd on a maximum of 40 man-days/month/farm of family labor.
/e Average annual land tax rates/ha are now and with the project; rainfed land, Rp 2,000, irrigated land Rp 5,000, and
rainfed land Rp 2,000; irrigated land RP 10,000.
/f For tertiary and quaternary units, annual O&M is estimated at Rp 4,000/ha.
/g Based on feasibility study survey and interviews.



10 0001  '0 0 0001        010000000   0001
0   $001 0100010000.oo
11      000  -'           0    .01    0      00    00             00            000000000               0
0 00   0              0 00  0         -      011                                I
00000 0  .                                                          0    00000000
0   10                                                              1   0                                                            0
0   00 0001  - 00    I - 001  0010  0.00  00   0                    0   01   110 01   010000000   I   0
*   00 000   0000    0                       000  00   0                 0      0 CI 0 0 0 0 0        0                             0     0
0   0       0    ol  '0                         01
0                0 0 0    0        0         0      0 0  0          0                   0 0 0
0.                                                             0      0
0    1000100  0 0010  0 0 01 0 0 0 0 00 0 0001                     0    100       010 00100
001                O0o0            0    000   0001
0000000000000   0000                                        0                                                               
0.                                                                                                                                  0
0                                                                   0
01   I 0001000 0010 00010000000                                             11000000000o0o1o.oo 0000
0 0   0000000000000                                    00 01  010                                                        I              00  0
0.001              .00000              0       0 0 0 0  '0                          00000000                     0   0              00    0
.10   0.                                                            0   0                   0   0
10 jo                                                              0010                                                                0  0
0                                                                  0 
0    10001000  0010000100                          00   0           0    110  000 0 0 0000001000  0 0 0 0                           2. 
0   0000000000000                                  00 0             0   000000000 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0
0              .00000              0         -   00 0               0              .0000              -    0  00                    00
0     0 00 0 0    -  0                                              0      0 000 0    0 0
01                                                                                                                                         00    0   0
jj                                                                                                                                        0     0.
of           0 0010  0 0 0010 '0 001000000  0                   01                 0 001  01  001  0000000                                 00  -1 0
00   00          0          0                                         00      00       0                          0000
liii                0 00 0 0                                                             6 00                                                     o  10 0
0                                                                   0                                                               00
a                                                                       0
00 o 00   o                           .                 '000                          00.
0010  0 0 0010 000100            0 .. 0        01                    001  0,0001         01         0 0 0 01              0.0 0 0
0 0  00                           00
000000000000  0   0 00 0 00 ol                                               0,0 000000    0   0                             0000
00000   0                                                            -                                                        0
0001000  0010 0 0 01 001000  0 00  01                                0 001  01 0 001  0001000                                 00 0     o
0   0  0                          0                       2       .1 0   0          -
00000         0                                                         00  ol
00000  0                                       0000000000 0                         0 00 0   0.
oaoo    0  0
01                                                                                       '''  0  0  0  0
01                                                                                    00000          0
i
O 0000                            0    00    00                      0 0                                      0  0      0011         0
0000           001             0    00.   00                       0 0                            0         0  0      0     0 0 0  .0
0 0000            001 0  0       0    00.   00.                     0 0                 0           0         0  00    0 0 00 0 0.
0.0   00                      0   0               0   0      0         0   00    0   0   00    0   0.
000  11 0          0    00    00                                    00 0 0 0         0         0  00          00 0 0  0
0000  0      000  0 0 00       0      0     0  0                   '00    0      00 00  00        0         0  0.01   00       00
0 0000  0    0.000 0 0 00 0    000           00   0                  0 0    0   00000000                      0    0    0 0 00=0   0
0000000    00000000  0    0000                 00   0                 0 000  0   000  0 -1 00 0    0            0  00          00 0 0  0
00000        0000  0 0 00 0    100100    00   0                     0 000  0   00.000000           0         0  00. . 00 0 00    0
000000000  0)0   00 0                                  0000    00000000  0                      0 COOjO -   0
00000011                 00    00   0                  00000        0.00 0 0                        000    ooooo.
0                 0 000  00         0    II                             0
0000.0    o         0. 0 0  0 0    0              0                  0 .100    0       0 0 0  0 0                     -.
00000    0 1111  0 o    '0   0 0 II    II  0                         0 1100    0 III  0 -    0    0               00    0   =o       0 0
010                                                                               jo.   
1111  0 0 0     0                     010                      III  III  000      100              4040   00 H 0    00 0 00. 0
000   0 0                                 000  000                       00 00 00000
    0 JO
010  oo  0 oojo 0                                                                                                 00.0000
lo             0   0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 .0  0                          100.00   000    000000   0.000 000
0 0 0 0 0  0   0                           100000000    00  0.0. 0 0 0 0 0.1
00 0     000000             0.  0 0    0                    0    0 0 0    0000000.0   0 0                  0 0 0 00   00 0
00      0                                                  0.   000        00      0       000000    0. 0
0.00400.000                                                (0 0 0.0 040.00010



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Schedule of Early Events
Activity                                                             Target: Date
General
1.  Appoint Consultants                                              Nov. 1978
(a)  Kali Progo                                                      "
(b)  Way Seputih
(c)  Way Sekampung (including Bekri)
(d)  Way Kandis and Way Ketibung
2.  Complete organization of PIBD
(a)  Establish Project Office in Lampung
3.  Employ Advisors
(a)  Design and construction                                     Nov. 1978
(b)  Contracts and procurement                                     "
(c)  Operation and maintenance                                   June 1979
Kali Progo Subproject
1.  Complete detailed design for 1978/79 construction                April 1978
2.  Contract for Aerial Photography                                  Oct. 1978
3.  Initiate Site Investigation and Feasibility Study for
Sermo and Sambiroto Dam Sites /1                               Oct. 1978
4.  Inititate design for tertiary systems                            Oct. 1978
5.  Complete feasibility report for Sermo and
Sambiroto Dams /1                                              Mar. 1980
/1 Financing of investigations and studies for Sermo and Sambiroto Dams
included in "Investigations and Designs" component, but critical events
are included here for continuity.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Activity                                                          Target Date
Way Seputih Subproject
1.  Initiate detailed design of Irrigation System                Oct. 1978
2. Complete detailed design of Irrigation System, invite
bids and award contract                                    Mar.-July 1979
3.  Initiate construction of Irrigation Systems                   July 1979
4. Initiate site investigation and detailed design for
Segala Mider Dam /1                                        Oct. 1978
5. Complete investigation and detailed design of
Segala Mider Dam /1                                        Sept.1979
Way Sekampung Subproject
1.  Initiate detailed design of Irrigation Systems               Oct. 1978
2. Complete detailed design of Irrigation Systems,
invite bids and award contracts                            Mar.-July 1979
3.  Initiate construction of Irrigation Systems                   July 1979
4. Initiate site investigations and detailed design
for Batutegi Dam and Bekri Irrigation System /1            Oct. 1978
5,. Complete investigations and detailed design of
Batutegi Dam and Bekri Irrigation System /1                Sept.1979
/1 Site investigations and detailed design on Segala Mider and Batutegi Dams
and for Bekri Irrigation System are proposed for funding "Investigations
and Designs" component, but critical events are included here for continuity.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Activity                                                            Target Date
Investigations and Designs Component /L
1. Initiate surveys and site investigations for
Way Kandis Subproject                                           Oct. 1978
2.  Initiate detailed design of Way Kandis Irrigation System          Oct. 1978
3. Complete surveys, investigations and detailed designs
for Way Kandis                                                 April 1.979
4. Initiate surveys and site investigations for
Way Ketibung Subproject                                         Oct. 19178
5.  Initiate detailed design of Way Ketibung Irrigation System        Nov. 1978
6. Complete surveys, investigations and detailed designs
for Way Ketibung                                               July 1979
7. Initiate aerial photography, surveys and mapping for
Dumoga and Gumbasa areas                                       Oct. 1978
8.  Complete reports on Dumoga and Gumbasa areas                      Mar. 1980
/1 Critical events for detailed design for Segala Mider Dam is covered
under Way Seputih subproject and for Batutegi Dam and Bekri area is
covered under Way Sekampung subproject.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General reports and studies relating to the agriculture and irrigation
sector.
A.1. World Bank, "Indonesia Development Prospects and Needs,
Basic Economic Report", Report No. 708-IND, April 15, 1975.
B.   General reports and studies relating to the project.
B.1.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Sir. M. MacDonald and Partners, "Kali Progo
Basin Study," Indonesia, October 1971, 8 Appendices.
B.2.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Sir M. MacDonald and Partners, "Kali Progo
Irrigation Project, Notes and Data for IBRD Mission," Indonesia,
Deczember 1977.
B.3.  Relpublic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Sir M. MacDonald and Partners, "Kali Progo
Irrigation Project, Revised Notes and Data for World Bank
Mission," Indonesia, January 1978.
B.4.  World Bank, "Project Completion Report, Credit 127-IND",
Report No. 127-IND, June 24, 1977.
B.5.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Howard Humphreys and Sons, "Reconnaissance
Report on the Water and Land Resources of Lampung Province",
Indonesia, Draft, January 1977, 2 volumes.
B.6.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Howard Humphreys and Sons, "Special Report
on the Way Seputih Irrigation Project," April 1977 (Draft).
B.7.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Howard Humphreys and Sons, "Survey Areas, Land
Capability, Soil and Land Use Maps," June 1977.
B.8.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Howard Humphreys and Sons, "Feasibility Study
of the Way Seputih and Way Sekampung Basins", Indonesia, Draft,
6 volumes plus 11 supporting Appendixes, dated variously from
August 1977 to March 1978.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
B.9.   Republic of Indonesia, Lampung Provincial Public Works, "Soil
Sampling Investigation in Way Sekampung Irrigation Area,"
May 1977.
B.10. Republic of Indonesia Director General of Water Resources
Development and Binnie and Partners, "Report on the Appraisal
of the Dumoga Irrigation Project, North Sulawesi," Indonesia,
December 1971.
B.11.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Binnie and Partners, "Report on the Appraisal
of the Gumbasa Irrigation Project, Central Sulawesi," Indonesia,
January 1972.
B.12. Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Binnie and Partners, "Review of Design of the
Dumoga Irrigation Project," Indonesia, August 1976.
B.13.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Binnie and Partners, "Review of Designs of
the Gumbasa Irrigation Project", Indonesia, May 1976.
B.14.  Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Binnie and Partners, "Gumbasa Interim Design
Report," Indonesia, April 1977, 2 volumes.
B.15. Republic of Indonesia, Director General of Water Resources
Development and Binnie and Partners, "Dumoga Irrigation
Project, Summary Report for IBRD Mission", Indonesia, September
1977.
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1.   Computer Printouts, Operation Studies for Lampung Province
Subproject.
C.2.   Cost Estimates, Working Papers.
C.3.   Price Structures for Fertilizers and Soybeans (2 tables).
C.4.   Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production at Full Project
Development, Economic Cost and Benefits (2 tables).



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
KAL'I PROGO SUBPROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1978       1979         1980       1981        1982        1983
-79        -80         -81          -82        -83         -84
Indonesian Fiscal Year
KULON PROGO SYSTEM
Kalibawang   Intake                             .......
Kalibawang   Canal                             ,_ _
Papah & Depok Canals                            ...........
Kedundang    Canal
Pekik Jamal Weir & Canal                          ..........   -_
Pengasih      Weir                                          **..,..__
Depok & Galur Canals                                          - _
Sapon Intake and Canals                                 .   ..........
MATARAM SYSTEM
Mataram       Canal                             _        _   _
Van Der Wijck                                   .....                 
Tributary Weirs                                         ... .....
Kebonongan                         _.......  _
TERTIARY SYSTEMS
Survey and Mapping
Design                                                 .............
Construction                                                  a__, __ _....
Drainage Systems                                                                                K ,______
Loan I
O1
Survey                                                                                                                        M
..         --                   -        -.-....-- Design                                           World Bank - 18502
_  Construction



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
WAY SEPUTIH SUBPROJECT
Implementation Schedule
j---  Loan I
IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Detailed Design
Tender and Award                             l
Construction                                                                     m                -
SEGALA MIDER DAM                                      l                                Loan II
Site Investigation and Detailed Design                                       I
Tender and Award
Construction
1978             1979             1980            1981              1982            1983
Calendar Year
World Bank - 18249
OQ
'T
1'J"



INDOlANE'CIA
IRRIGATION X
WAY SEKAMPUNG SUBPROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1      Loan I
IRRIGATION SYSTEM                               I
Detailed Design
Tender and Award                              I
Construction
BATUTEGI DAM
Site Investigation and Detailed Design        I                          unnel       Dam
Tender and Award                                                      _
Construction                                  l                               I   Div. Tu nel                         Dam
BEKRI IRRIGATION SYSTEM                                                          r-- Loan11          Loan III
Detailed Design
Tender and Award
Construction                                              I                                      I                  -                 -
1978             1979             1980             1981             1982             1983             1984
Calendar Year
World Bank - 18250
FJ-
OQ
w



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
INVESTIGATIONS AND DESIGNS
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1978                           1979                           1980
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LOAN 1                                                          1-*- LOAN 2
WAY KANDIS       j          z   - wSURVEY S AND SITE INVESTIGATIONS
(1,250 ha)
I                                 _| X g |   4| 
1__"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__________________ i
I    tz              , _Y  Y YY zyiSURVEYS AND SITE INVESTIGATIONS
WAY KETIBUNG                                   f                   _
m -                                  -   u
~ I    sxz  -    - MAERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY
RUMBIA,                                       A YwASURVEYS AND MAPPING
DUMOGA AND              I    tz  z z                  ' A ffi  7Ay1LAND USE AND SOILSURVEYS    I
GUMBASA                 !                                                 m
ai                          ii umuuuuimuuuuuuumuuuumi            a
I                                     p.. _.-       u mum 
SERMO AND               a                       #_   SURVEYS AND SITE INVESTIGATIONS
SAMBIROTO               |
DAMS                                         I i......mm.....mu..u.mm.u.t41
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I                                                  a
LEGEND
* _ EMOBILIZATION            INEEEEIPLAN DEVELOPMENT
VW wFIELD OPERATIONS         r_ ATENDER DOCUMENTS                                                                Q
_iiiiOFFICE DESIGNS          -  * REPORTS PREPARATION                                      World Bank -18384
(D



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
WATER RESOURCES ORGANIZATION
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND ELECTRIC POWER
lIlLY~
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING AND           DIRECTORATE           DIRECTORATE OF          DIRECTORATE             IRRIGATION              HYDRAULIC
m3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4-,
I       PRODD      |la
E  H                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-~16017   I.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION X
DIRECTORATE OF IRRIGATION ORGANIZATION
Director of
Irrigation
P.i.B.D.                                                                             Administration
Division
Technical                   Finance                  General Afrs
Sub-Division               Sub-Division      lSub-Dvision
Irrigation                  ls Costucio                    2nd Constrmuction                Rehabilitation                Operationteanced
Planning Service                Development                     Development                    Rehabiitationanc
Planning Service          ServiceService                                 Service                                       Service
lst Technicl            |      st Section of    l4th Section of                             1st Section of                 Irrigation Net-
PlanningSehnicale               Construction           _       Construction           _       Rehabilitation                 work Control
Planmng Service        ~~Development                   Development                                                      Section
2nd Irrigation                 2nd Section of                  5th Section of    1           2nd Section of                  Operation and
Technical                     Construction                    Construction                 Rehabilitation                   Maintenance
Planning Section    l            Deve.op.,,       l              rvelooment                                                      Section
3rd Section of                  6th Section of                3rd Section of                Tertiary Network
Design Section                 Construction                     Construction                  Rehabilitation                  Development      |                x
Development                     Development    l                                                 Section
I                                                                                                                             t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
Survey Section   1                                                                                                          World Bank - 18503
Irrigation



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT X
Kali Progo Subproject
Proposed Cropping Calendar
J        F        M        A        M         J         J        A        S        O         N        D
Wet Season Paddy                                                                                                    1
34,700 ha                                                                                                                            T
mmM                                                                       mm
H
Dry Season PaddV                                              C
28,700 ha                                                         T
M
H~~~
(a) Palawija  I                               (a)                        
(    13,500 ha                                                          C H
C
(b) Palawija  II                              (b)                                            M  _H_
H
Notation:                             mm
C - Cultivation                     400
N - Nursery
T - Transplanting30
Average Rainfall (mm) 2g;
M        F        M        A         M  Ma                       A        S m                N         D e
World Bank - 18303



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT X
Way Seputih, Way Sekampung, Subprojects
Proposed Cropping Calendar
J         F        M        A         M         J        J        A         S         0        N          D
Wet Season Paddy                                                                                                                         C
N
Way Seputih         20,800 ha
Way Sekampung       70,000 ha                                                                                                                T
M                                                                         M
H
Dry Season Paddy                                                      c
Way Seputih         3,800 ha                                      N
Way Sekampung       22,600 ha                                             T P
H
C- 
(a) Palawiia  I       Way Seputih            (a)                       Ml 
t    6,000 ha                                                                H *   _
b   Way Sekampung                                                                C
lb) Palawija  II  J'   12,000 ha             (b)                                                       M_                                 H
H
Notation:                            mm
C - Cultivation                    400
N - Nursery
T - Transplant                     300
M - Management
H - Harvest
200
Average Rainfall (mm)
WVay Seputih                 10II
WVay Sekampung
t-1
J        F        M         A        M         .1        J        A         5         0         N         D                    U'
World Bank - 18304                  ;






IBRD 13141
163-                       166                         lbg-
121.
rftw h. bw wo-e-i  W,*
AAALAYSIA                 5 ) U TH                                                                                                                                 O ft          Pt WA* kkh. n.
IA                                                                                            f y W,#Oy
Gd,
A-                                  QNGAPORE                                            7
h.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.d.
P-, R.. S.dy Al.,-
B.Mq %Pg.,
S.dy                                     402,
-11                    -,                                                                                                                                                                        Ii            -                      D-gi
R .... I
K /A    L  I  M    A  N  Ir A  N
'k
p D-h S.bpr.)'O"
3 500 h
J-6.)
5  L)    A  T
BANGK,                                                                                                                                                                                        3,
A,                                                                                                                                                   U  L
000 h.
T                                                         ------
B-,k                                                                                                                                                 6,000
W.y Sklmwg                                                                                                  s.d-9
Wl S-11  pl-."              66'm  h.                                                                                               Sb-p,.*t         p
54,600 h.
ww     1-11111111.lj                           jatdh, poi..t                                V   A                        A
25aooo h*
INDONES                                                                      c6eii- P,di-t                                                                                 Ad.-,         'sww
R                  C-1
IRRIGATION                                      a                                      /88'=                     I Ww" K
92           s.b.i*.v                 8   --- I ;
3%, h.
UM IRRIGATIONPL
RfljcTlaff fmUTA TIQ4- 7"'                                                       k.*
"h                           Cilmh St.,n A       B
JOW h.                                                                                                                                                5eo
Sdy A,.                -A
S..Mp... O." $b-pftjegl
mly
R4.                                   S7             PA  IFIC
CPAN
AA
4                                             mwoo.
14
-i6WBAWA
0              200      300     490                                         N  0    A  N
77                                                                                                                                                                         Jo V4 se.               a"d,
iDo                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S-
mw
WLES I                                                                                                                                                                                IN 0 r.A IV 0 6 A li






320O                                                  3e30'                                                 3"40
KAL I  AWANG
-7'40'                                                            INTAKE and WEIR
Commanded Areas                                                            KARANGTALUN INTAKE                                   INDONESIA                            7'40O
COMBINED              1
IL LKulon Progo Sub-Project                                           HEAD 
Z7ISapan Sub-Project                                                                                       IRIAIN    RJC 
J ~Mataram  Sub-Project                                                                                           Kali Progo  Sub-Projlect
-----Main Canals
Existing Weirs                                                                                   lt
AM Proposed Dams!/Weirs                             4
A     Intakes
-----Roads
Railways
~--~ Rivers
-7'50'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
~~~~~~~~~~7N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SAPON                                r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hin map han bee prepard by the World Banks etef -nol--eey for the    meo
boun Arsshw   on this map do not imply, -n the par ofthe Word Beck -dodit
efi,te,ayijod9mat on the lea  tteofaytrio y or -yedorsmen 
A                     11J          /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JA                   
/                                                                           5.?hhflC   iatitotesepreieut~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h  a--t7400h.
Iii         ,,         ~~~~~~~~~253,00oha  ilo   otr  aSiK5   M.di-e Re~flshitttte  &
PROTO AYAN                                  W       esomem k Ktti r
B$.OOOko  titodo Area 00n5.:oh  cohtteat en1=
"1/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WI
Cttctst>  02,0~~t 30 Osh-coetSico    n
> -8100,                                                                                                                              A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0hAh  O 0h
3'2Y                                                  33                                 tP     A N   0  C F A Arelon,oOa                  0






IBRD 13130
ae10430'                                        INDONESIA                                               105j 00                                                                                                   O5I 30                                                                     NOVr  rr
4-30                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4'30'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43
IRRIGATION PROJECT X                                                                                                            10 o5   20  25  30
Way Seputih and Way Sekampung Subprojecs                                                                                                      KILOMETERS                            2 
=    Way Sekampung subproject                                                                                                           MILES
Way Seputih subproject
reisting irrigation schremes                                                                                                          1-I
A                      l~~- rrigotion projects uMder oerittruo  on//
Potentiil srtface water irrigation                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r \
J         :
- -diE.isting cnorls  r,nd off takes x;  t   2 
.  ,proposed ccnrJls and groaity off takes /  
Proposed dams or weirs                   Jr                                    )ff                                                                                                                                                                         .,
-Roods    J  g
,,w,~~~~~~~~~R,r ,,,.,,,, ,.                                   Ns                                                              -t   \%                                                                 e2w 
U*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00                                                                                                                                                         1oS 30f=   






IBRD 13131
105J 15                                         /05'30'
/                                T l   /t   Ih,o map has be,, prop by the      B tGK
Way           b                 / Sefheih              ioCootlrO O1 ;         5 u M A T E R A
Th. d7,0 te;  /  the4.0 005000   d.  Ai,\ 9k
Sub- Prc,jecutr                                                                                Strdy A,..
e           r                  r~>  tttsr/  oenjtandtid #ftpr3tn   0 410  StudyAre . k-p
\ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Way                           j         ar tny  erq or nY ondoro. noe.<W3 53apr 
X  S >   /   Sekyom                                   W.), ,, . . .    S b.p   \ot
Zat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o SepoI d\bly  
/>4Bekri/AreaJ                                                                   Sukf adana
e t  )  I  v M eAro,oo
INDONESIAketung                                                  /
Paniang~~~~~~~~~~~0                                      oPato
Bekr< ,Way Kandis and                             1                     _Sd
Existing Canals  Tni OfaeKu ngtkara ng                                                      b
INDONESIA             TeukLetung                                ~=                      2
IRRIGATION PROJECT I                                        
- Pan jang                                                       TJbn
Bekri,Way Kandis and                -                                                 f 
Way Ketibung Sub-Projects                  \A                                   
I I4 Design Areass                                                                       r
Under Canstructian Areas  . 
4 4* Existing Canals and Off Take                                             ,WyKtbn 
Proposed Weir                                                                      ub-Project
Roads
-t--+ l Railways
~ Rivers
O       S        10      15       2  N
KILOMETERS
0   5    10  15 #- A t ..... - - - . 6 (1 5 
MILES
105o15'                                        :vf WTo Kalianda
JANUARY 1978



