Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15156
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2808-AL)
DECEMBER 5, 1995
Private Sector Development, Finance, and Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Equivalents in dinars of US$1, since 1985
1985               5.0
1986                4.7
1987                4.8
1988                5.9
1989                7.5
1990                8.6
1991               17.4
1992              22.5
1993              22.0
1994 (Dec.)       43.7
1995 (June 1)     44.8
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAD         -      Algerian Development Bank
CTTP        -      Public Works Technical Quality Control Agency
ENTP        -      National College of Public Works
ISFF        -      Railways Advanced Training Institute
MEAT        -      Ministry of Public Works and Regional Development
MOT         -      Ministry of Transport
MPW         -      Ministry of Public Works
RN          -      Primary (national) road designation
SNTF        -      National Rail Transport Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Sunimary  ..................................-.                                -
PART 1:        Project Implementation Assessment from the Bank's Perspective   - 1 -
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives .- 1 -
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives .- 2 -
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project   - 4 -
D.  Project Sustainability .- 10 -
E. Bank Performance.                                                        - 10 -
F.     Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- 11 -
G.  Assessment of Project Outcome .- 12 -
H. Future Operations .- 12 -
I.  Key Lessons Learned .- 13 -
PART II.       Project Implementation Assessment from the Borrower's Perspective
PART III.    Statistical Annexes
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Performance Indicators
Table 6:  Estimated Project Costs
Table 7:  Project Financing
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:  Missions
The Borrower has not provided his own assessment of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. las contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.  l






DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2808-AL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
(i)   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fifth Highway Project, for
which a loan of US $120 million to the Government of Algeria was approved on May 12, 1987.
The loan became effective on January 28, 1988, and was closed on December 31, 1994 after two
deferments beyond the date originally envisaged, namely December 31, 1991.  A final
disbursement took place in August 1995, leaving an unused balance equivalent to
US$5,766,793.52, which was canceled with effect from August 23, 1995.
(ii)   This ICR was prepared by Michel Loir, in conjunction with Claude Archambault
(MN1PI), and was reviewed by Amir Al-Khafaji, Division Chief (MN1PI), and also by Rene
Costa, Project Adviser (MN1DR). Circumstances prevented a mission from visiting Algeria to
facilitate preparation of the ICR, which is therefore based mainly on material contained in the
project files and on recapitulative documentation supplied by the Borrower during the first six
months of 1995. The Borrower has not contributed directly to preparation of the ICR, nor has
he provided his own assessment of the project, which therefore could not be included in the
Annexes.






EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Fifth Highway Project was carried out in circumstances of increasingly serious economic and
financial crisis and growing uncertainty, factors that need to be taken into account in evaluating its history
and impact. The design features which made it similar to a sectoral project became more marked over
the years of implementation, and despite obvious deficiencies there can be no doubt that the Fifth
Highway Project enabled Algeria to advance much further than the four earlier projects toward solutions
to structural weaknesses in its management and execution of road works. This project's contribution to
the establishment of conditions that augur well for future effectiveness in the country's road sector must
be emphasized.
2.    The project objectives were focused on essential priorities: making up the maintenance backlog,
strengthening capacity to manage the road system, eliminating price distortions, and developing human
resources. While circumvention of and solutions to the acute shortages of aggregates and bitumen ought
to have been collateral objectives, some among the various other secondary objectives added to the project
during the execution process were untimely (para. 1.3).
3.    Achievement of project objectives was uneven:
i     Accomplishment of physical objectives exceeded projections significantly, mainly because of a
three-year deferment of the project closing date and appreciation of the US dollar (para. 1.4).
i     Institutional development in road system administration was satisfactory, even though some
management tools were not introduced (para. 1.6).
3     Public enterprises in the road construction business suffered the consequences of unfavorable
contractual terms and conditions. Conversely, however, the maintenance component of the
project contributed to the development of private sector enterprises in this field (para. 1.7).
i     The maintenance backlog worsened because local budgets were too small (para. 1.8).
4.     The majorfactors affecting the project were: cross-financing arrangements between the Fourth
and Fifth Highway Projects (para. 1.10); successive amendments to the Loan Agreement to respond to
new needs (paras. 1.12 and 1. 13); chronic problems with the disbursement process (para. 1.15); shortages
of aggregates and bitumen (para. 1.20); and partial failure of certain studies, in particular those managed
by the Ministry of Transport (paras. 1.21 - 1.24).
5.     The sustainability of the project is dependent on a return to conditions of security and on success
in returning government finances to a sound footing. As some worksite checks and controls leave
something to be desired, doubts arise regarding the probable useful life span of project works. The Sixth
Highway Project incorporates key actions that could not be completed under the Fifth Project (para.
1.27).
6.    Bank performance is characterized by a detailed preparation of the project which extended over
6 years, from 1981 to 1987 (para. 1.28), an appraisal showing certain shortcomings, successful
supervision of the road component, but only moderate success of the management of the Action Plan
(paras. 1.29 and 1.30).



- ii -
7.     Borrower performance was satisfactory. Where there were weaknesses, they had to do with
procurement, contract management, the slow pace of disbursements, and delays in submitting audit
reports. They were weaknesses that should have been identified better at the outset. With regard to audit
requirements, in future the services of a private auditor should be specified (para. 1.35).
8.     The assessment of project outcome is a generally positive one, although mention should be made
of the partial failure of a number of project studies, and the sometimes mediocre quality of certain project
works (para. 1.37).
9.     The key lessons to be learned have to do with overestimation of local works execution
capabilities, the need for adopting untried supervision methods in view of the deterioration of the security
conditions during the project lifetime, and the organizational constraints affecting associations between
local and expatriate consultants (paras. 1.40 - 1.42).



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2808-AL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives
1.1   The objective of the Fifth Highway Project, as set out in the Staff Appraisal Report of April 17,
1987, was to assist the Government in concentrating its reduced resources on preservation of existing
roads and in improving the efficiency of land transport. A secondary objective was to assist with the
timely preparation of technical studies for the railway and port subsectors. It was anticipated that this type
of focus would contribute to: reducing the backlog in pavement strengthening works; rationalizing
planning and supervision of these works; improving planning and operational efficiency in road
maintenance; eliminating distortions in maintenance costs; and strengthening personnel management and
training functions in the both Ministry of Public Works (MPW)' and government-owned transport
enterprises, so as to improve planning, operational efficiency, and policy formulation in the transport
sector as a whole.
1.2   This approach was warranted. Algeria had experienced a long period of rapid growth that had
raised GDP per capita from US$540 in 1973 to US$2,880 in 1985. This apparent prosperity, however,
was already eroded by deep-seated economic distortions, to such an extent that the 1986 drop in oil prices
caused a sharp reversal, forcing the country in 1989 to opt for the path of financial stabilization and
structural reform. The Fifth Highway Project was in advance of the general restoration of order in the
economy and government finances, in the sense that it took the new budgetary constraints as a warning
to focus on optimum use of available resources. Several aspects were particularly well identified.
(a)    The road system, the dominant component of the transport network, had to accommodate
a rapidly rising volume of traffic (increases of 13% per annum between 1972 and 1976, and 8%
per annum between 1976 and 1985), which brought with it greater demand for both maintenance
and pavement strengthening works. The first two five-year plans, covering the period 1980-1989,
had channeled roughly DA 26 billion into network development, modernization, and heavy
maintenance, although the latter accounted for only 20% of the total road investment budget.
Including periodic and routine maintenance, they accounted for only a third of all road spending.
This weak resource level meant that an average of no more than 500 km of primary roads, out
of a total system of 20,000 km (not counting secondary and tertiary roads), could be attended to
annually. The structure of road budgets was therefore biased toward extension of the network.
(b)    The need to rationalize the planning of road works was all the more pressing because this
responsibility had been greatly deconcentrated in the mid 80s, threatening the coherence of
overall road system administration, especially as regards compliance with technical standards,
and creating a risk that national road policy would be diluted by local policy. It was necessary
1.     Now the Ministry of Public Works and Regional Development (MEAT, Ministere de I'Equipement et
de l'Amenagement du Territoire).



- 2 -
to define the roles of the relevant central government departments better, develop analytical
instruments, and strengthen management capabilities in both the Ministry of Public Works and
the Wilayas. Creation of a road data base and a computerized network management system was
essential. A further requirement was for the development of technical quality control capabilities
now that the practice of executing works on force account, the norm up until 1984, was giving
way to contracting.
(c)    Eliminating the distortions affecting the market in road works was a major concern, not
only so that conditions could be created that would enable contracting enterprises to develop
normally, but also to ensure that the benefits of quality road works at least cost would be
available. Price controls, shortcomings in contractors' finances and accounting, the excessive
importance placed on vertical integration, and the existence of monopolies were all reasons why
market prices did not reflect cost prices accurately -- a situation that resulted in wasting of certain
products such as bitumen, and in the lack of incentives for using more economical technical
solutions that would have substituted local materials for more traditional materials hauled in over
long distances.
(d)    The Government allocated considerable volumes of capital for the building of new
infrastructure to foster the beginnings of economic development in disadvantaged parts of the
country and the Hauts Plateaux region -- one ambitious objective being the proposed construction
of rail and road loops. Instances of massive port and rail investments (the cost-effectiveness of
which had been compromised by construction problems, poor coordination with other
investments, and their premature nature) were ample reason to reinforce the Ministry of
Transport (MOT) planning capabilities, especially in view of the risk that scarce budget funds
might be diverted into operations unlikely to show satisfactory returns over the short run.
1.3    The quest for solutions to shortages of aggregates and bitumen should have been a collateral
project objective, with its own specifically targeted actions, but was omitted. However, other new
objectives were added to the project during the implementation process. Whereas acquisition of an
equipment fleet for routine and emergency maintenance in the southern sector would have been well
within the logic of the project (and therefore signals a gap from the outset in formulation of the set of
project components), by comparison the assistance provided for development of a freeway program had
a more tenuous connection with the goals of the project and introduced a risk of diluting the broad,
overall emphasis that was supposed to be given to maintenance. In the end, both Borrower and Bank put
considerable energy into this freeway component, but without much success, mainly in the sense that
many steps were left incomplete and will have to be resumed as part of the Sixth Highway Project. Still,
there is no doubt that this component contributed to raise awareness of stakes and complexity involved
in sound programming of freeway investments.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
1.4    Physical Execution of the Project: Accomplishment of the physical objectives of the project
exceeded projections, as may be seen from Table 5 in the Annexes, which compares achievements as of
the loan closing date with the objectives set out in the Staff Appraisal Report. The original physical goals
were to strengthen 400 km of primary road pavement and perform periodic maintenance on 2,000 km
of roads in seven Wilayas over a two-year period. In December 1990, the original project completion
date, barely a fourth of the primary road pavement strengthening had been completed, and half of the
periodic maintenance that was to take place in the seven pilot Wilayas. In December 1994, a total of 634



km of primary road pavement had been strengthened and 7,000 km of roads had received periodic
maintenance -- representing a 220% increase in achievements (58% and 250%, respectively, compared
to the original projections). These results are attributable to the deferments of the project closing date
and significant appreciation of the US dollar against the Algerian dinar. With regard to equipment and
supplies, an amendment to the Loan Agreement made possible the procurement of numerous items of
maintenance equipment not originally anticipated, such purchases being the consequence of failed attempts
to contract out routine maintenance.
1.5   Institutional Development: Side Letter No. 2 to the project legal documents provided for the
Project Action Plan set out in SAR Annex 1 (which details project objectives, measures to be introduced,
and proposed implementation scheduling) to be updated as the execution process went ahead. Periodic
updating would have given a way of adjusting better to the major changes that affected the
macroeconomic and financial environment, and project slippages made that need even more compelling.
However, the Plan was never updated, in spite of numerous requests by the Bank, mostly because the
Borrower considered the Plan not as a flexible management tool, but rather as a final and definitive
document that could not be modified even under new conditions.
1.6   The goal of developing local road system management capabilities was only partially achieved.
Establishment of a road data base on 5,000 km of the primary network, and adaptation of HDM-II1
software to the conditions prevailing in Algeria, were still incomplete at project closing. Programming
of road strengthening works throughout the Fifth Highway Project was handled according to the usual
govermnent methods. Performance in traffic counting and axle weights measuring deteriorated, as
existing arrangements were undermined by equipment breakdowns and thefts. However, the training
provided for road system management personnel, the publication of guides prescribing national pavement
strengthening and maintenance standards, and the reinforcement of CTTP, the Public Works Quality
Control Agency capacity to provide engineering designs for and monitor execution of necessary road
works were project actions that will guarantee future progress. Standardization and generalization of road
deterioration assessments procedures significantly improved road works programming.
1.7   Project results in promoting local road contracting firms were mixed. In rehabilitation and
pavement strengthening works, the majority of contracts were awarded to public enterprises. Faulty
knowledge of cost prices, plus competitive pressures, led these enterprises into signing contracts not
remunerative enough to enable them to replace and modernize their equipment. Inflation and payment
difficulties added to their problems, so that by the end of the project many of them were on shaky
ground. In contrast, the maintenance program included in the pilot component spurred the development
of small private contracting firms, one of which was eventually able to qualify for a third-tranche
pavement strengthening contract. However, enterprises working under maintenance contracts were
prevented by lack of access to foreign exchange from taking full advantage of a healthier market.
1.8   The priority prescribed for road maintenance materialized finally, although late. The Action Plan
objective of increasing maintenance allocations for primary roads from DA 500 million in 1987 and to
DA 600 million by 1989 was achieved. Inflation and budget allocations drawdown rate below 100% had
already eroded the real value of the 1989 allocation by 25%, however. After 1989, inflation accelerated
rapidly but allocations were not adjusted -- until 1992, when there was a nominal 39% rise in credit
consumption compared to the previous year, although it was still 20% below the 1987 allocation in real
terms. Doubling of the allocation in 1993 finally restored road budgets to their original levels, but
increased financial constraints began to erode them again in 1994. The conclusion, then, is that while
the project exceeded its physical objectives it did not manage to halt road system deterioration, which



- 4 -
would have required additional action on a relatively large scale and with central government financing.
The proportion of the primary network in good repair (paved or not) actually declined from 52 % in 1985
to 41 % in 1991 (more recent data are not available). On the other hand, the provision of training in the
road maintenance field for over 500 MEAT staff, the drawing up of standard forms of road maintenance
contracts, and the adoption of uniform procurement procedures are clear evidence of the importance the
Ministry attaches to the maintenance effort.
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
1.9   Ent) v into Effect: There was no special condition of effectiveness. However, it took seven months
from signing of Loan Agreement 2808-AL for its entry into effect on January 28, 1988 (originally
scheduled for October 22, 1987) -- as a result of delays in submitting legal opinions and authenticated
copies of the decree ratifying the loan.
1.10   Transfers of Funds between Fifth and Fourth Highwav Projects: The Fourth Highway Project
was left with an unspent credit balance of US$27 million, and no prospects of spending it by the
scheduled project closing date of December 31, 1988, as there would have been too little time to carry
out planned maintenance work on national route no. 9 or procure security equipment for the Kherrata
tunnel. These were the only two project components still not executed at that date. At the Borrower's
request, it was decided to reallocate these Fourth Highway Project funds to the first tranche of pavement
strengthening works and the 1987 and 1988 tranches of the pilot maintenance program of the Fifth
Highway Project. These works absorbed a total Bank contribution of US$18.4 million accordingly
transferred from the Fifth to the Fourth Highway Project -- distributed as follows: US$7.4 million for
the first tranche of strengthening works (more than 140 km of national routes nos. 3, 4, and 5); and
US$9.3 million and US$1.7 million, respectively, for the 1987 and 1988 road maintenance programs.
Conversely, Loan 2808-AL was used to finance works on national route no. 9 and equipment for the
Kherrata tunnel, for a total equivalent to US$8.5 million.
1.11   Successive Amendments to the Loan Agreement: The Loan Agreement was amnended four times
for different reasons:
(a)   January 1, 1989: An increase from 45% to 50% in the disbursement rate on civil
engineering contracts, a change warranted by depreciation of the dinar and the accompanying rise
in the foreign exchange share of project costs.
(b)    May 24, 1989: Extension of the pilot program originally covering seven Wilayas for the
period 1987-1989 to 28 Wilayas for the period 1990-1993.
(c)    December 20, 1991: (i) addition of a US$6 million "bitumen importing" component
(which, as indicated below, served no purpose); (ii) addition of a component to procure routine-
maintenance and emergency- repair equipment at a cost of US$19 million, and thereby fill a gap
not identified at the project appraisal stage; (iii) extension from 400 to 450 km of the road
strengthening and rehabilitation program; and (iv) inclusion of three new studies -- the first on
ways to optimize execution of the freeway program in economic terms, the second on ways to
optimize road maintenance policy, and the third on rehabilitating and developing urban transport
systems in Algiers, Oran, Constantine, Annaba, Blida, and Setif.



(d)    November 30, 1993: (i) Extension of the maintenance pilot program to all 48 Wilayas
for 1994; and (ii) an increase from 50% to 65 % in the disbursement rate on civil engineering
contracts.
1.12   The main purpose of these amendments was to preserve the integrity of project objectives
threatened by far-reaching changes in the macroeconomic and financial environment. The studies
program was broadened because the Bank wished to assist the Government in rationalizing its freeway
policy and in developing the National Freeways Authority, a statutory body created in 1992 for this
express purpose out of one of the divisions of the Highways Department. Although the urban transport
study was somewhat outside the project mainstream, the Bank agreed to finance it so as to help the
Government in its search for a sustainable solution to the crisis in this subsector; and in any event it did
fit into the project preparation process in the same way that the port and railway studies included from
the beginning in the Fifth Highway Project had contributed to preparations for the Second Railway Project
(Loan 2976-AL) and the Third Port Project (Loan 3105-AL). In addition, the Borrower was anxious to
make good use of undisbursed loan proceeds.
1.13   Two detailed engineering studies for the construction of freeway sections were also added to the
project, although their connection with its objectives and description was considerably less clear than in
the instance referred to in the preceding paragraph. Furthermore, they were premature, since it would
have made more sense to await the findings of the economic and financial study on the freeway program
before selecting priority sections and launching engineering studies of this type.
1.14   Disbursements: The slow pace of disbursements was a chronic problem throughout the Fifth
Highway Project. As may be seen from Table 4 (Annexes), less than US$50 million had been disbursed
by December 1991, the closing date originally scheduled. It was only after 1992 that the disbursement
rate accelerated, following numerous consultations between the Bank and the Borrower and the steps
taken by the Algerian Development Bank to streamline its administrative practices and procedures.
1.15   There can be no doubt that the time-consuming nature of contract award procedures, failures to
keep works on schedule, and the Borrower's reservations concerning various important studies were at
the root of a very mediocre disbursement record. However, three other major factors also came into
play:
(a)    Devaluation of the dinar: The Algerian dinar, worth 21 US cents in March 1987, had
fallen to 8.5 cents by December 1990 and to roughly 2.2 cents by June 1995. Domestic inflation
lagged behind devaluation, so that numerous works contracts expressed in dinars became less
costly. This explains why project objectives were largely exceeded, with costs very much lower
than SAR projections. The Algerian administration initial practice of requiring fixed price
contracts only exacerbated the difficulties, as the contract addenda inevitable in the circumstances
involved lengthy expenditure approval procedures.
(b)    Proiect budgetary organization: Although many other Bank projects were conducted on
an off-budget basis, Fifth Highway Project works payments were handled through Treasury
channels. The contractor was first paid in dinars by the Treasury of the Wilaya concerned. The
file was then sent through the Ministry to the Algerian Development Bank, which disbursed the
funds. It was only at the end of a long roundabout course that the contracting firm received the
credit in convertible dinars to which it was entitled. Characteristic of this procedure were delays



- 6 -
in disbursement from the Special Account, and belated recognition of rights to foreign exchange
(whittled down, anyhow, by intervening devaluations of the dinar).
(c)    Denial of right of access to foreign exchange to contractors paid from the current budget:
The road maintenance pilot program was a source of work for contracting firms entitled only to
dinars payments. Loan 2808-AL arrangements for funding of this component were therefore
simply a means of supporting both the balance of payments and the Government budget. There
were few local inducements for the kind of rapid remittal of supporting documents that might
have facilitated disbursement of loan proceeds, other than the relatively steady flow of injunctions
from the MEAT's central departments -- which, however, had long been handicapped by a
mediocre file follow-up system.
1.16   The sum initially deposited in the Special Account, in 1988, had been US$15 million. The slow
pace of disbursement meant smaller replenishments, the first of them not until February 1991 (US$11.5
million) and the second in late September 1992 (US$8.8 million). Subsequent replenishments involved
amounts of less than US$5 million.
1.17   Disbursement administration was complicated by the high proportion of small contracts.
Expansion of the periodic maintenance pilot program during project implementation, and then its
extension to all Wilayas, were the original causes of these difficulties. Particular mention should be made
of works supervision contracts, whose value by the time the project closed was no more than a few
thousand dollars on average, but which still had to be analyzed and itemized at Bank headquarters in each
instance, being single-source contracts. Two observations are warranted on this subject:
(a)    The Loan Agreement provided for recourse to the statement of expenditure (SOE) system,
which might have simplified disbursement administration. However, the SOE facility was never
implemented.
(b)    The Borrower's administrative and financial entities, not being fully aware of the
advantages afforded by the SOE system, continued to send fully documented withdrawal
applications to the Bank. The Bank's underestimation of the constraints surrounding application
of the system prevented it from being introduced in the course of project execution. Participation
by a disbursement specialist in a Project Launching Seminar provides an effective means today
of rectifying these defects in the appraisal process.
1.18   Shortages of aggregates:  The Fifth Highway Project provided for action in the matter of
aggregates, the quality and availability of which were too often unsatisfactory. Improving the quality of
aggregates at worksites was difficult as they were in very short supply, and it required strict specifications
and more frequent and stringent laboratory checks that did not materialize. The shortage is partly a
question of security concerns that make it almost impossible for quarries to obtain supplies of dynamite,
which obviously holds up the production of aggregates. In addition, major administrative constraints
impede transactions between Wilayas, to the greater disadvantage of those without quarries. In the final
analysis, the Fifth Highway Project at least succeeded in making the Government more fully aware of
these problems and of the need for it -- with Bank technical assistance -- to search for solutions. As a
result, an action plan was eventually finalized in 1994, the expectation being that it will be carried out
as part of the Sixth Highway Project.



1.19   Supplying worksites with bitumen:  As early as April 1988, the Bank poinited to the serious
disruption of bitumen supplies to worksites and the resulting prejudicial effects on project costs and work
schedules, requesting that the Government undertake a study of the problem and that il the  eleantlinle
road works enterprises be allowed to import bitumen directly without having to go thlroughi NA] I-AL.
An interministerial working group was then set up, but the mission to Algeria in late 1988 wo iied ahout
at NAFTAL's dilatoriness in acting on the recommendations made. Bank missionis also observed (i) a
tendency toward overuse of bitumen at worksites, and (ii) nonicomplianice with specifications, whichi was
compromising the quality of surface dressings and their "durability". The Bank cainie to take on an active
part in the quest for solutions, through two initiatives. Following a November 1989 mllissionl suogee[ston
that the Borrower use Fifth Highway Project proceeds to finance the bitumeni imports nceded to cover
1991 and 1992 needs (130,000 metric tons), the Loan Agreement was amenided in DJecemiber 1991 to
allocate US$6 million for bitumen imports, subject to certain conditions. Late in the p ocurleent process.
NAFTAL decided not to use the facility it had requested, so that the allocation achiieved nothino. [ile
Bank took its second initiative by financing a May 1993 mission of specialists with a manidate to develop
a plan of action; this plan was subsequently approved as part of the conditionalit\ set lor the Sixth
Highway Project, which will implement it. Thus for many years, the sector greatly suffered I roin the "de
facto" monopoly of bitumen supplies.
1.20   Shortcomings of local laboratories:  An audit report, commiiissioned by the Bank,  on the
Borrower's four local public works laboratories identified the following key problems   nt cotitacts
between laboratories forming part of the same organization, providing idenitical services, anld operating
in the same market; a serious lack of long-term capital, and working capital with large shorttiLlls, iainily
because of delays in payment, no systematic general study programiis. and above all n1o applied research.
particularly on local materials; mediocre quality of the services performed; impossibility ol deterniininiilg
the cost-effectiveness of the different sectors of laboratory activity; no centers of expertisC ahle to identfify
and serve as grouping points for engineers and specialized teclmiciaiis; a shortage ot ;Killed  tchilical
personnel but a surplus of other categories of salaried employees; insufficient training arrangenments;
minimal computerization; and general obsolescence of the testing equipment in use. to the detrimilenit of
test quality. Creation, within the framework of the Sixth Highway Project, of the Lahorator- Networ-k
should solve many of these problems, especially as regards the quality of services performed. IVime Filth
Highway Project must be given credit for raising strong awareness of the need to reniedy shor-tcollings
of local laboratories.
1.21   Disappointing results of study and training programs: The econiomic and finanicial stud! on the
1,100-km east-west freeway, to be conducted under MEAT supervision, was launched inl late 1993.
following lengthy negotiations mainly concerned with the organization of working relations between the
two consulting firms selected to carry out the commission. The preliminary report oni the study noted
that the National Transport Study results were unusable (although their use had been) a contractual
condition), because they were erroneous and did not constitute a reliable data base for proceeding with
the proposed works. The study is being continued as part of the Sixth Highway Project.  Fhanis to
methodical Bank supervision, the detailed engineering study lfor the Bounmedfa-Klhenis M'iliana section
provided an opportunity to sensitize the Government to the complexity of freeway projects across difficult
terrain. However, like the other studies planned, it unfortuniately caime up against serious diff'liculties of
implementation and then had to be abandoned for security reasons.  The Governmen.lllts tardiness in
presenting the study file for the Hnamitz-Lakhdaria section resulted in its tranisfer- to the Sixth Ilighway
Project.



- 8 -
1.22   The vocational training for enterprises operating under the supervision of the Ministry of
Transport mainly benefited SNTF (Railway Corporation) personnel. The aim was to expand and equip
the Railways Advanced Training Institute (ISFF) to provide training for technical personnel. Selection
of the consultant took 15 months. The contract (for some US$2 million) had hardly been signed when
it came up against the problem of inclusion in the budget and then had to be amended so that the Institute
itself could be designated as executing agency. Although the consulting firm began its work in 1989, it
did not receive its first payment until October 1991. Various other problems then took their toll:
imprecise assessment of ISFF training, organizational, and management needs; questioning of training
objectives by SNTF following turnover in its director-generalship; ISFF's own difficulties in establishing
credibility with SNTF and in working in conjunction with it; death of the mission leader in an accident;
and questions regarding the quality of the services provided. Contract implementation was suspended in
May 1992. An amicable settlement of differences was finally reached in June 1995, although too late
for the arrears due to the consulting firm (approximately US$150,000), or pending budgets for other
services (expert advise on/provision of training for trainers), to be disbursed under Loan 2808-AL. ISFF
also submitted a request for financing for teaching equipment and materials, in January 1994.
Uncertainty as to whether the conditions that would ensure the success of this new component still existed
two years after the departure of the consultant, and lack of time to complete the operation prior to loan
closure, led the Bank to suggest that it be carried over to the Sixth Highway Project. In summary terms,
this technical assistance amounted to: advice on teaching concepts and methods; training courses, rendered
less effective by participants' lack of previous experience; and failure of the assistance with ISFF
expansion. The lessons to be noted are as follows: it was ill-advised to include a small railway
subcomponent of no real urgency (a railway project was in preparation; Loan 2976-AL was appraised
in September 1987) in a complex road project where it would easily be lost sight of; transfer of the
subcomponent to the railway project would have facilitated its maturing; and the consultants should have
waited to obtain all the required signatures before beginning their work.
1.23   Another objective was to assist the Ministry of Transport in studying that sector's problems and
in developing a Transport Planning Research Center. The request to include this study was made shortly
before project negotiations (January 1987). The initial concept (utilization of the Ministry's staff and the
enterprises under its supervision to carry out the study with assistance from consultants) evolved toward
full contracting out to a consulting firm, the selection of which took a long time. Establishment of the
Transport Activity Studies and Analysis Bureau (BEDAT. Bureau d' etudes et d'analyses des activities
de transport), and its substitution for the Algiers Metro Authority (Entreprise du metro d'Alger) as
executing agency for the study, meant that negotiation of the contract was not finalized until August
1988. As the Bank objected to certain clauses in the contract, they were rewritten, adding to the services
required from BEDAT and emphasizing the principle of joint responsibility but with BEDAT acting as
the managing partner and the external consultants providing leadership in technical matters. The amended
contract (for an estimated equivalent of US$5.2 million) did not come into effect until May 21, 1989.
After a satisfactory initial period, the study began to suffer the effects of discord between the partners,
which surfaced in June 1990. It was completed in June 1993, two years behind schedule. Strictly
speaking, one should conclude that the study was a costly failure (with the equivalent of US$3.5 million
disbursed): the 30 or so reports produced describe and analyze situations and policies that had been
superseded by the end of the study period; the data base assembled has become obsolete; and the
computer model for projecting demand contained gaps identified in 1994 by a Bank-financed specialist.
However, due value should still be placed on the transfer of knowledge that was effected during the
study, through either the training activities provided for in the contract or the work relationships
necessarily established, and on the influence the consultants had on the formulation of sector reform plans
between 1989 and 1995. The lessons to be drawn from this study are: (i) if its implementation period



-9-
becomes overlong, a study loses much of its impact; (ii) the steering committee did not play its
anticipated role; (iii) the Bank failed to realize the extent of the problems early enough to assist with an
urgent search for solutions; (iv) the Bank should have rejected a contractual provision that required the
external consulting firm to contribute 6% of the local consultant's foreign exchange budget; (v) the
partnership between an internationally renowned consulting firm and a newly formed local consulting
group was too lopsided to ensure the harmonious functioning of an association calling for joint
responsibility; (vi) execution of the study suffered the effects of bureaucratic delays and indecision on the
part of the authorities; two years elapsed between the submission of bids and contract effectiveness; and
(viii) the Bank should enforce greater consistency between the complexity of studies and the extent of
related supervisory means mobilized by the executing agency.
1.24   Although the urban transport study was not among the initial project components, the idea
surfaced at a quite early stage: as a result of the June 1987 mission, the Borrower saw a need to add a
program of study and training in the urban transport field to the project. Several sector missions visited
Algeria to assist with the development of this component, but it was not until November 1991 that the
Loan Agreement was amended to allow, among other things, for a study on "urban transport enterprises
operating in a selection of the Borrower's cities and towns." While the choice of a consultant took ten
months, the subsequent deterioration in security conditions led to lengthy renegotiations over
organizational arrangements for the study and the sharing of tasks between the local consulting entity and
its foreign associates. A revised contract was finally submitted to the Bank in October 1994, with notice
to proceed being issued on the following December 27. As the study was expected to take eight months
to complete, its financing under the Fifth Highway Project became problematical. In the interest of its
immediate start up, the Bank agreed as an exceptional matter to finance it up until April 30, 1995 (a
deadline later extended to July 31), after which it was to become part of the Sixth Highway Project. In
actual fact, the Fifth Highway Project would finance only the start-up advance, as the client rejected the
first-phase report (a diagnostic assessment of the existing situation). There are two lessons to be drawn
here: (i) The Bank, knowing that external consultants were no longer in a position to enter Algeria,
should have encouraged the Borrower to defer this operation; and (ii) the terms of reference written four
years earlier should have been brought up to date, a detail that escaped the attention of both the Borrower
and the Bank. In 1991, the recent survey data then available would have served the purposes of the
study, whereas they were no longer valid by 1995; in the circumstances. the contract should have
included provision for new surveys.
1.25   Training in the road subsector: The MEAT underestimated the importance of training in the early
years of project implementation, then entrusted ENTP, the National College of Public Works, with its
delivery. ENTP failed to meet the objective, and CTTP, was assigned to carry out training with initial
support by foreign consultants. More than 500 participants were trained during the second half of the
project execution period. Its main function was to organize: training programs in road maintenance,
contract supervision, drafting and dissemination of road maintenance guides, and pavement strengthening
and rehabilitation; and seminars to disseminate knowledge of techniques and practices in these fields.
CTTP performed services of considerable value to MEAT technical departments.
1.26   A stocktaking of CTTP activities shows that beyond its role in the training arena it had as other
main responsibilities the supervision of Fifth Highway Project pavement strengthening and rehabilitation
works, plus the execution of general studies called for by MEAT in these fields. CTTP serves as a
consultancy bureau to the Executive Branch: with its 100 or so engineers. it is the largest public works
quality control organization in Algeria. It made the transition to computer use successfully, especially
with regard to collection of field data and formation of computerized data bases. On the other hand,



- 10 -
introduction of the HDM-III software for analyzing maintenanice program priorities fell behind schedule
and was still not completed on the date the project closed. The very size of CTTP gives grounds for
fearing that MEAT regional laboratories may be relegated to the background, and that confusion between
principal and agent may occur where supervisory functions are concerned. The Sixth Highway Project
includes an action plan to fine-tune MEAT staff training, procure new laboratory plant and equipment,
launch a quality campaign, and strengthen technical cooperation.
D.    Project Sustainability
1.27   Generally speaking, the sustainability of the project depends on developments on the security front
in Algeria, and on appropriate road management decisions. For sure, the mediocre quality of worksite
supervision in some places is no guarantee of the resistance of new road layers to the effects of time!
despite the fact that Bank and Borrower made a serious effort to ensure systematic identification of
improvements required and to seek the right solutions. Sustainability will be dependent on successful
completion of certain Sixth Highway Project components, and to a large extent also on leadership and
personal commitment on the part of MEAT mid-level management and professional resourcefulness on
the part of MEAT decision-makers. Finally, the objectives of some project studies are a long way from
having been achieved and their outcome is of little value to guide future action.
E.    Bank Performance
1.28   Identification: The project was identified as early as April 1982. Treated at the outset as a road
project, it evolved in 1983 to become a multi-modal operation (judged to be too ambitious and risky),
only to return to its initial vocation when the emphasis was placed on road system modernization and on
training. It was expected the loan would be for US$160 million. The steps taken by the Bank in the
period 1983-1985 to awaken the Government's interest did not succeed. A new project brief put out in
March 1986 was approved in principle by the Government. This became the Fifth Highway Project, a
notably more modest operation (total cost of US$150 million, for a loan of US$80 million). The update
of June 1986 was a response to two Government aims: to add a "transport" component and to shorten
the execution period. Three major problems to be solved were identified: (i) price distortions affecting
inputs used for road works undertaken by governmenit enterprises; (ii) price distortions affecting fuel oils,
but especially diesel ore; and (iii) shortconmings in local procurement practices.
1.29   Appraisal: To the extent that execution of the Fifth Highway Project was adversely affected by
serious difficulties in supplying worksites with bitumen and aggregates, and by the impact of mediocre
local laboratory performance on1 the quality of road works, there is reason to think that the solutions
introduced at the beginning of the Sixth Highway Project (through its Specific Action Plans) should have
been identified and developed as part of the Fifth Highway Project, especially as these problems predated
the economic crisis, which inevitably exacerbated them. Appraisal of the institutional organization
required for success of the training components is another sphere where shortcomings existed: executing-
agency capabilities were sometimes overestimated, as in the case of ENTP and ISFF. And lastly,
appraisal of the financial organization of the project left something to be desired: bookkeeping systems,
payment procedures and checks, and the ability of the General Inspectorate of Finances to conduct and
report on audits within the time periods scheduled are examples of matters that were analyzed
superficially and affected project execution adversely.
1.30   Supervision :  Bank supervision was frequent, especially during the initial years of project
execution. In the following spheres, it was clearly intensive and constructive: execution of road works,



- 11 -
development of local road management capabilities, monitoring of contracts and of improvements in the
competitiveness of the road works market, and the search for solutions to the serious shortages of
bitumen and aggregates and to the organizational shortcomings of laboratories.  The numerous
communications from the Bank and the number of aide-memoires left with the authorities in Algeria
constituted considerably more than technical observations intended to help the Borrower assess problems
accurately and draw lessons for the future; they also contributed to local institutional development and
to the excellent relationship between Bank and Borrower which continued right through to project closure.
The quality of supervision of the project components managed by MOT, although acceptable, was not
as high, possibly as a result of interruptions in the monitoring of their technical aspects. The Bank could
have been more insistent in requesting an update to the Action Plan, in view of the high inflation rates
prevalent during the execution of the project, and of the two extensions to the project closing dates that
were granted, the first from December 1991 to December 1992, and the second to December 1994.
F.    Borrower Performance
1.31   Component Management: By and large, MEAT carried out its responsibilities effectively, and
kept the Bank informed regarding execution of the components of the project and whatever problems
arose. This is less true, however, of the components for which MOT was responsible, the information
on them that was remitted to the Bank often being late and scant. The Project Action Plan was never
brought up to date (despite repeated requests from the Bank, the first of them dated June 1988), and did
not have the expected effects, which were to have been: uninterrupted discipline in the pursuit of project
objectives; and formalization of the Borrower's renewed commitment to taking the actions that were its
responsibility in ways and according to a timetable better suited to the prevailing circumstances. Among
those actions were many focused on transport infrastructure that were not accomplished, in particular:
road taxation reform, formulation and implementation of a road taxation program, and planning and set
up of a maritime transport development program.
1.32   Procurement: The generalized resort to competitive procedures in awarding periodic maintenance
contracts was a major improvement over the previous practice of direct but lopsided negotiations between
contracting firms and local government authorities. In the case of contracts for studies, however, serious
shortcomings were observed, for instance: lack of precision in the bidding documents and the terms of
reference; time-consuming official examination and approval of bidding documents; governmental
interference, after signature of contracts, in the relations between consultancy groups operating in
consortiums; and a general lack of transparency. The Borrower would have been better advised to model
its procedures more on those advocated by the Bank.
1.33   Contract Manaeement: This was made difficult by poor unit cost control and accelerating
inflation, although the usual practice was to award contracts at fixed prices. Inclusion in contracts of
clauses allowing for price adjustments subsequently became widespread, but in circumstances that were
not ideal owing to the mix of formulas used and delays in the publication of indexes. Problems were
frequently the result of inadequate program funding and the burdensome nature of adjustment procedures.
In certain instances, contract execution was disrupted by disputes between the local and foreign partners
involved. This was very much the case with the transport component, because the Ministry did not know
how to go about resolving such conflicts rapidly.
1.34   Disbursement Management: The Algerian Development Bank was responsible for administering
the Special Account. Organizational shortcomings, outmoded working methods, and inadequate staffing
were some of the reasons for the delays in disbursement. This problem, which affected World Bank



- 12 -
loans as a whole, led to the establishment in 1992 of a Commission to review the procedures in question.
The internal reorganizations which then followed led to notable improvements. Close to US$68 million
(60% of the loan) was disbursed over the last three years of the execution period, compared to US$46.6
million over the four and a half years from January 1988 to June 1992. Partly responsible for this
progress were the Department of Roads and the Road Management and Maintenance Department, which
took effective steps to speed up the remittal of documents from Basic Infrastructure Departments in the
Wilayas.
1.35   Project Audits: Auditing of the project, by the General Inspectorate of Finances (IGF), was
greatly complicated because no formal project accounts were kept. A weak system for classifying
vouchers, the fact they were not available in one place, and the nonexistence of annual financial
statements created particular problems. IGF performed this exercise relatively well, however, but behind
schedule. Its workload was too heavy to permit carrying out of audits by the deadlines set. Audit reports
were received by the Bank as follows: for 1988-89, on January 6, 1991; for 1990, in December 1991;
for 1991 and 1992, in May 1993; and for 1993, in December 1994. It is clear that at the negotiation
stage the Borrower had overestimated IGF's ability to execute project audits within given time frames,
and that it paid little attention subsequently to complying with Clause 4.01 of the Loan Agreement. This
experience should induce the Bank to require that audits of its projects be conducted by independent
private auditors.
G.    Assessment of Project Outcome
1.36   Generally speaking, given the prevailing socioeconomic circumstances, the results of the project
may be described as satisfactory. Although it consisted of numerous relatively small-scale components,
it achieved, even exceeded, not only its key physical objectives, but also its training objectives,
particularly those focused on CTTP and the organization of road maintenance. The results of some
studies funded through the project were disappointing, however, and the corresponding reports of little
use. Other factors, unforeseen at the appraisal stage, disrupted implementation and explain the
shortcomings in performance noted on the part of both Bank and Borrower. All in all, main results of
the project can be regarded as sustainable, in view of the publication and dissemination of technical
guides, CTTP development, and the increased awareness of the importance of adequate road maintenance
allocations to the MPW budget.
1.37   Despite undeniable successes, the quality of projects works left something to be desired on
occasion. On this score, it may be noted that the last supervision mission advised: improving detailed
engineering studies, especially in connection with diagnostic assessments of road condition; taking better
account of obstacles to water flow and repair of shoulders; greater standardization of laboratory services;
greater precision in drawing up specifications and writing terms of reference for consultants retained to
monitor compliance with them; greater strictness at work sites in application of these technical
prescriptions; and better organization by contractors of their logistics and self-check systems.
H.    Future Operations
1.38   The data base on road and traffic conditions on the country's national highways will need
continuous updating. The MEAT must make more extensive use of the HDM-III software in
programming its maintenance and rehabilitation works. The experience gained in the maintenance and
rehabilitation of national highways will be applicable (after suitable modification) to secondary (Wilaya)



- 13 -
and local or tertiary (community) road systems. These objectives will be pursued within the framnework
of the Sixth Project.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
1.39   Works execution capabilities were overestimated.  In the case of pavement strengthening
operations, the projected execution rate had been US$20 million/year on the first tranche and US$33
million/year on the second. Actual figures were well below these estimates and the rate of execution also
decreased, falling from US$15 million/year on the first tranche to US$13 million/year on the second and
US$8 million/year on the third. Road maintenance production figures were also similarly overestimated:
while the SAR had projected a rate of US$54 million/year, average expenditure over the eight-year
project period was US$9 million/year, with a peak of US$11.7 million in 1989.
1.40   A road project can be supervised, even in difficult circumstances, when the services of active
local consultants are available, and it is monitored by a Bank headquarters team which is well acquainted
with the country's general difficulties and its road sector problems in particular and has been able to
create a climate of mutual confidence between Bank and Borrower.
1.41   Execution of the studies called for during the last two project implementation years unfortunately
came up against the security problems that eventually affected travel in Algeria, so that the results
obtained were generally disappointing. Terms of reference for studies need to spell out clearly what is
expected of consultants. In addition, care should be taken not to dictate work organization patterns to
consultants, and especially not after signature of a contract. While the principle of partnership between
local consultants and expatriate consultants is unquestionably a sound one, it should not be "pushed" by
the authorities without insisting on performance requirements, on subjects, where local experience is still
limited; the handling of contract performance should be left to the more experienced of the two groups.
The MEAT's pressing request for implementation of some of the late studies did not match with the
human resources mobilized for their prompt launching. To that extent, it would have been preferable not
to undertake the studies, as they proved to have been a mistake and a poor use of loan proceeds.






Table 1: Sunmnary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives           SubsLantial            Partial          Negligible       Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                       -                  -                  x
Sector policies                          -
Financial objectives                    -
Institutional development               x
Physical objectives                     x
Poverty reduction                                           -                                     x
Gender concerns
Other social objectives                                     -                                     x
Environmental objectives                -                                       x
Public sector management                x
Private sector development                                  x
B. Proiect sustainability              Lik                           Unlikely                         Uncertain
x a/
Highly
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory                  Satisfacor                         Deficien
Identification                                                      X
Preparation assistance                                              x
Appraisal                                                           x
Supervision
D. Borrower performance              satisfictory                  Satisfac                           Defi
Preparation                                                         x
Implementation
Covenant compliance                                                 x
Highy                                                           Highly
E. Assessment of outcome             satisfactory   Satisfactry                   Unsatisfactory    unsativsfac
x
Notes:  a/ positive impacts on following projects.



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/credit title                      Purpose                   Year of aproval Status
Loan 1407-AL         Construction of a road, consulting setMcss for the 1977    Completed
2nd Highway Project   Ministry of Public Works & Construction, and
traning of sttf
Loan 1683AL          Increase the cost effectiveness of roed     1979           Completed
3rd Highwa Project   maintenance organization, rehabilitation and
reconstruction of road sections, training of
maintenance staff wd strengthening of the
pl[ning capacity of the MPW
Loan 1992AL          Improve overall road maintenwice, reconstruct   1 3O       Completed
4th Highway Project   a road sectio n, i m prove the efficiency & p roduct Mty
of the construction industry, and help develop
a p:ogran to increase acess to rural rcoads
A;V&rwzA4
Loan 3839AL          Ennance the capability of Algeria to manage its   1994     Active
6th Highway Proiect   road sector, reconstruct and maintain road
sections and bridges
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycde                                    Dae Planned       Date actud/
latest estimate
Identification                                                                    March 86
Preparation                                            April- September 86  April' September 86
Appraisal                                                 September 86          September 86
Negociations                                                                      March 67
Board presentaion                                           March 87               May 87
Signing                                                                           June 87
Effectiveness                                              October 87            January 68
Loan Closing                                              December 91           December 94
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY88   Y89    FY90   FY31   FY92   FY33  FY94   FY95   FY 96
Appraisal estirmate          22i000   58,000   93,000 115,000 121000
Actual                       16,410   28,750   28.800   45.800   46.620  64,750   81.758 112,460
ActuS as%  of estimate   74.8%    4S1%    31.0%              398%      3a9%    540%    saix           937%



Table 5: Key Performance Indicators2
Indicators           |     Appraisal Report       [  Actual Achievements Dec. 31,
Estimates         |               1994
1. CIVIL ENGINEERING WORKS
Pavement strengthening            400 km of primary roads     634 km in three tranches over 8
over 2 years               years, at average cost of
US$175 ,000/km
Periodic maintenance               2000 km in 7 Wilayas over  7037 km over 8 years entirely on
2 years (competitive       contract after competitive bidding, at
procurement pilot program)  average cost of US$10,000/km
Technical assistance for CTTP      80 man-months              Only 1% achieved
Research program on use of        Studies on ENTP second      Not achieved
natural materials                 cycle
Training of Ministry of           282 man-months. plus 152   Training in maintenance for 555
Infrastructure personnel          man-months of traininlg     staff (of whom 75 sent abroad)
abroad
Training of Ministry of Transport   (lncluded in above itemii)    (Included in above item)
personnel
2. STUDIES
Country-wide multi-modal                                      Study completed but not yet
transport study                                               accepted by Government
Study for rehabilitation of 200 km  T                         Not carried out
of railway track
Study for modernization of port                               Carried out
equipment and facilities
Study for maritime transport model                            Carried out
Economic and financial study for    Not originally planned    In progress. Preliminary report
east-west freeway                                             submitted. To be completed as part
of Sixth Highway Project.
Detailed engineering studies for  Not originally plained      Suspended because of security
Boumedfa-Khemis Miliana freeway                               problems
Not possible to obtain from Borrower the data on traffic anld unlit costs needed to update project rate of
return calculations. This information has been requested.



Detailed engineering studies for  Not originally planned      Carried over to Sixth Highway
Hamitz-Lakhdaria section of                                   Project
freeway
3. PLANT AND EOUIPMENT
Purchase of vehicles              20 light vehicles           None
Personal computers                Number not specified        Number received not specified
Instructional manuals and other   Number and particulars not  Number received not specified
materials                         specified
Special equipment for vehicle     Number and particulars not  None
inspections                       specified
Miscellaneous equipment           Not originally included     575 vibrating tampers, 176 vibrating
rollers, 105 binder sprayers, 194
dumpsters, 216 K-66 trucks, 82 K-
1 10 trucks, 312 trailers



Table 6: Estimated Project Costs
Appraisal Report3         Dec. 31, 1994 Estimates
(millions of US$)            (millions of US$)
Local  | Exchanges   Total    Local   Exchanges   Total
currency |            _      currency   ___
Civil Engineering Works
Pavement strengthening       68.9       56.4   125.3      45.9       47.6    93.5
Road maintenance            75.1        53.7   128.9      31.5       49.5    81.0
Planning monitoring training  12.0       3.7    15.7      12.2        3.8      16.0
Subtotal                    156.1      113.8   269.9      89.6       100.9   190.5
Technical Assistance          4.8        8.4    13.1       2.7        7.0      9.7
Equipment, Vehicles,         0.6         3.3     3.9       0.0       18.7    18.7
Supplies
TOTAL                       161.5      125.5   287.0      92.3      126.6   218.9
Table 7: Project Financing
Appraisal Report           Dec. 31, 1994 Estimates
(millions of US$)             (millions of US$)
Local   Exchanges   Total   Local   Exchanges    Total
currency                     currency
World Bank                 --        120.0  120.0       --        114.2      114.2
Government of Algeria    161.5         5.5  167.0       92.3       12.4      104.7
TOTAL                    161.5        125.5  287.0      92.3      126.6      218.9
3 Provision for implementation contingencies and price increases is allocated proportionately
in each category



VWn Vate! 09/02
at 10.19
VP   PXE41R PAST & trc mR$jC7  Pra  OfmPCE
t'n  - CrNWfY DEPAR11-r I
29440 - n#ASIflmlltP OtV9MIGM  LIlV
mou  - latest Ststtrq of Cbv-'nt CVre  lance
1  11.05 - NNIFX D5
nfl-I s9n rAft 09/3fl/ I
10. ~    ~ .iT!MT            ..                . .              .yq 
rPasc 11 t li,, of t"evanlt                                nrenta
tcan/                                                               original  Pevlinxd
-redit                                       Cb'-ennnt               ru, fill f  nI I      I f tI
Narer,-r.nt  kater  rext Pefelrn-re                     Class feq)    Stt ti   rlate        Pate
A.          1.2a00n   4.02                               5              C                               feport Vy pulot wilaym  on fit prmject cy!le                rb coven
fy,arly en-I rpnrtetlyl rlaRted to pa'tiv A an-I n 
4.02                                5              1                               (11 Onatterly reports cn training at t9n', l?,             lb  carent
CllP, ad Transport fl*erprlaes  11) prepare
bi-rartal reports on glotal marrxwer In St aid 
traft4mrt
4.01                                1             C                               hNiltinci of Project Icc:vmts anrd of SpecIal               lb ctnsvlt
caccout within 9 erwitis of exca   fiacAl year
3.05 (b)                           12             C        01/30/A9                (1I Petalted erltnpering of 2001cm of rilltrads            lb cvoanrnt
(ii) tNtalled  rngineering of Port PrAlbilitatlon
In Algiern s
3.05 (a)                           12             C        03/31/89               tbvplete a ntudy on Port  il'p-rent                         lb crrnt                                                      M
3.05 (a)                            12            C        06/30/99               Carrying ait a Transport Stuly                              the study was carpleted In Decenler 1992.  Delays
rwe f(c  dispites within the cwnsultant grrop.
3 d hI                             S lC                    o6f/nd/a               fiad Safety   llrnet to he proctred                         lb action was taken
3.04 (a)                           5              ts        In/I1/01              Sly.eping  Lint to be sutbtitted for texttook9,             Actlon not taken lOtyitern have rnot been acrlred Ui
eoavtxters anti tralning e.iterialn                        anrl the er-nhiering sc)vyit did rot perform
aqnately.I
3.03                               S              C                               Selectirn of priority projects based cn acceptable  lb problem.
retibodologles rndl itnlJn" rates of return, aid
execiitin of natal ewtntenar'e prcgraln.
3.02                               5              c                               Crw  Oxention to be maintained thrxgh executlon  lb prmble  experienced.
Statst,  C    - aCiT 1ed with
CD - apiliae  after Melay
*C Ibt ampilied with
9Xt- Cbrp)laire btqeted in teasnatiy  Sltrt Tlt
CP   - bipliead with Pattlally
riD  - tbt Yet lbs



Table 9: Missions
Stage of                  No. of   No. of    Specialization
Project Cycle Month/Year  Staff   Days in    Represented'  Ratings2 Nature of Problems
Field
Through           9/81        2        22     HE
Appraisal         2/82        1        13     HE
10/82       2        4      HE,
1/83       2        22      HE,
5/83       2        21      HE,
11/83       4        14     TE, HE,TG
3/84        1        5      HE,
10/84       2        18     HE,
12/84      4                HE, E,
Appraisal         7/85        6        28     HE,
7/85       2         19     TC, HC
2/86       3         17     HE,
4/86       3         9      HE,
6/86       5         19     TE, FE, E
9/86       5         12     HE, TG,
11/86       1        7      HE
12/86       2        7      HE,
1/87       4        17      HE, TG,
1/87       3        10      HE,
2/87       11
4/87        1        11     TG
5/87        1        7      HE
Supervision       6/87       2         2      HE,                 ]
10/87       5        ?
12/87       1        6      HE,
3/88       2        21      HE,
3/88       1         10     HE,
3/88       2         19     TG,                 2
10/88       6        21     HE,
11/88       3        12     HE,                 2
2/89        1        6      HE,
3/89       1         9      HE,                 2
4/89        1        6      TG,
7/89       3         13     HE, TE, HC          2
10/89       2        23     HE, HC,
11/89       2        7      TE, HE,             2
5/90       2         14     HE, TE,
6/90       2         15     HE, HC              2
9/90       1         5      HE,
9/91        1       26      HE
4/92        1        6      HE,
10/92       3               HE, TE, HC
5/93       2         14     HE, TE,             2
3/94        1       40      HE,                 2
HE - Highway Engineer                        TE - Transport Economist
HC- Highway Consultant                       TG - Training
E - Economist









IMAGING
Report No:      15156
Type: ICR



