Document if
The World Ban
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6527-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 17, 1987
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1987)
Currency Unit           Algerian Dinar (DA)
DA 1              =     US$0.21
DA 4.70           =     US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                          British/US Sy;tem
1 meter (m)                             = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        = 0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kMn)                - 0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)                    = 0.9842 long ton (lg ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                         = 2.2046 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CTTP     =    Technical Quality Control Organization
OW       =    Secondary (Regional) Road Designation
DIB      =    Basic Infrastructure (transport) Directorate, in each region
(Wilaya).
DP       =    MOT's Port Directorate
DPGER    =    Road Maintenance Planning and Management Department, in LNTP.
DTT      =    MOT's Land Transport Directorate
ETR      =    Regional Roadworks Enterprise (contractor)
INDEFE   =    Enterprise Career Development and Training Institute
LMS      =    Laboratory for Marine Studies
LNTP     =    National Public Works Laboratory
LTP      =    Regional Public Works Laboratories
MOF      =    Ministry of Finance
MOP      =    Ministry of Planning
MOT      =    Ministry of Transport
MPT      =    Ministry of Professional (vocational) Training
MPW      =    Ministry of Public Works
RD       =    MPW's Roads Directorate
RN       =    Primary (National) Road Designation
SDM      =    RD's Road Maintenance Sub-Directorate
SNTF     -    National Railway Service
SNTR     =    National Trucking (freight) Ser,ice
SNTV     =    National Passenger Transport Service
SOE      -    Statement of Expenditures
URC      =    Pavement Strengthening Unit, in LNTP
vpd      =    Vehicles per day



FOl  Oft CIAL US ONLY
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
lable of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Suummary                                           i
I. THE TRANSPOT SECTOR........................................1
A.  The Transport System ..................... ... .......... .     1
B.  Government Organization Related to Transport .........          1
C.  Past Transport Investment                                       2
D.  Government Policy in the Sector                                 3
E.  Proposed Transport Investments ..........................      4
F.  Previous Bank Projetts                                          5
II.  THE H:GHWAY SECTOR              ..................                  6
A. General ...............                                          6
B.  The Network                                                     6
C.  Traffic and Road Transport                                      7
D. Administration 9.....9
E . P lanning .                                    b.*00009*0 e    10
F.  Detailed Engineering                                           12
G.  Construction .1... . ........ ...... .            ........    12
H., Maintenance  ............... ............ .-               .    13
I.  Huan Resources Development         .                          14
J.  Expenditures, Revenues and Accounts ....................P    16
III.  THE PROJECT                 ..................                     19
A.  Project Objectives                                             19
B. Project Description                                             20
C.  Project Costs Estimates                                        26
D . Financ ing .                   -00*aaa04               66*0    29
E.  Implementation                                                 29
F . Procurement ... .    .. ....  @6 . ** .          ... ......... 30
G. Disbursements                                                   32
H.  Accounting and Audit .,....OA..........        .,.......       33
This report was prepared by Messrs. William Matthey (Highway Engineer) and
Roy Knightoa (Transport Economist) on the basis of missions to Algeria in
June and September 1986. Assistance was provided during project prepara-
tion by Mr. Jean-Michel Verdier, (Training Specialist) and by consultants
Jean de Gryse (Financial Analyst), Andr6 Garaud (Highway Engineer), and
Jean-Pierre Noel (Transport Economist).
This docuhwant has a rtricted distfibution md may be used by relpients only in thepeformane
of theioffici duties. Its contents may not otherwi be diclnd without World Bank authortlon.



Table of Contents (contd.)
?age No.
IV* ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..        .......     ................................    33
A.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries      .........................    33
B.  Road Rehabilitation Program .......     ......................  34
C.  Road Maintenance Program .................................     34
D. Project Risk .................................                  36
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................    36
1.  Project Action Plan ..........      ...........................    39
2. Study on Recovering Highway Expenditures
from Users - Outline Terms of Reference ............... .   57
3.  Pavement Strengthening Design Method         ....................    61.
4.  Economic Evaluation         .....................................    67
5.  Overview of Human Resource Planning and Development ....       82
6. Previous Bank Projects and Recent Developments .........        90
7. List of Project File Documents .........................    94
TABLES
1. Implementation Schedule
2. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1. Organization of Ministry of Public Works
2. Regional Government [Wilayal Organization
MAP
I8RD 19890R - Algeria - Fifth Highway Project
(7084D) (Text)
(7077D) (Annexes)



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summarr
Borrower:           Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and Ministry of Transport
(NOT).
Amount:             US$120 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayable in 15 years including three years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project Oblectives
and Description:  The proposed project would assist the Government in con-
centrating its reduced resources on preservation of
existing roads and in improving the efficiency of land
transport, in particular road transport, while collater-
ally absisting with the timely preparation of engineer-
ing studies for the railway and port sub-sectors. The
project would contribute to:  (i) reducing the backlog
of pavement strengthening; (ii) rationalizing planning
and control of this work; (iii) improving planning and
operational efficiency in road maintenance; (iv) elimin-
ating distortions in maintenance costs;  (v) strength-
ening personnel management and  training functions  in
MPW, HOT and transport enterprises, so as to improve
planning, operational efficiency and policy formulation
in the transport sector as a whole. To achieve these
objectives, the project will support: (i) the newly
established   Technical   Quality   Control  Organization
(CmTT) in planning and supervising pavement strengthen-
ing programs; and road maintenance planning and manage-
ment; and (ii) the creation of a transport investigation
study and planning center under MOT's direction, to
improve sector policy formulation. The proposed loan
would finance (i) the road rehabilitation and contracted
maintenance works; (ii) technical assistance to improve:
collection and use oZ road network data, planning,
optimization,   preparation  and  control  of  pavement
strengthening and road maintenance programs; use of
natural material for road construction; and personnel
skills of MPW's, MOT's and transport enterprises' per-
sonnel managers, teachers, instructors, training



-ii-
officers,  as "Io' A^ DIB enginoers, "technicians  and
field laboratory staff through training programs in num-
erous  priority  fields,  including  overseas  training;
(iii) preparation of a comprehensive, multi-modal trans-
port study including diagnosis of road traffic safety
problems and analysis of road user charges; (iv) prepar-
ation of engineering studies and analyses for railway
track rehabilitation, port modernization, a container
term4nal for Algiers' port and evaluation of a maritime
shipping model; #4 (v) procurement of related training
materials and pi1ppent.
Benefits and Risks: The  financial  beneficiaries  of  the  proposed  project
would be the road users benefitting from reduced trans-
port costs.   Institutional and procedural changes would
serve to avoid unnecessary increases of road maintenance
costs through improved planning and control of road
maintenance work and timely pavement strengthening.
Training under the project would support the effort to
improve the e.ficiency of transport and protect capital
investments.  Additional, non-quantified benefits would
accrue f rom (i) improved personnel management in MPW,
MOT, and thrp4h"t the trapsport sector enterprises,
(ii) improvement: in -tbe quality of teaching in MPW's and
MOT's schools, and (iii) preparation of highly important
studies which would provide the Ministry of Transport
with the basis for formulating policy changes. No eco-
nomic risks are associated with the project because of
the high economic returns expected from both the road
maintenance and road rehabilitation programs. There is
hcwever the risk that the introduction of competitive
bidding for maintenance contracts may not be immediately
successful.   Rlipit*tion  of  subsidization  of  certain
maintenance un$t pricis may increase thqse prices more
than  improved  efficiency can  reduce them.   Also  the
response of those road contractors who presently do not
engage in maintenance, may initially be tentative and
limited. The institutional objectives of strengthening
planning and control capability, hiowever, should be
fully attainable, thus serving to assure sustainability
in view of the high priority given by the Government to
road rehabilitation and maintenance. The risk of budge-
tary shortages are minimal. Funds for the road
strengthening prRgram hbve already been included in the
proposed 1987 budgets and the required increases in
maintenance costs for the pilot mqintenance program have
been agreed.



Estimated Costs:    '
Local     Foreign     Total
* -     US$ millions
Pavement Strengthening (400 km) s'    64.2          48.4      112.6
Road Maintenance    (in 7 Wilayase
over 2 years)"o'  66.7         46.9      113.6
MOT Assistance and Studies               4.0         7.0       11.0
Equipmeat, Vehicles and Goods            0.5         2.8        3.3
Total Base Cost                   135.4      105.1       240.5
Physical C6dtingeiacies          '' 10 O.O           8.5       18.5
Price Contingencies                     16.1        11.9       28.0
Total Project Cost               161.5      125.5       287.0
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign     Total
US$ millions -
World Bank                               -         120.0      120.0
Government                             161.5         5.5      167.0
161.5      125.5      287.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FP  1988     1989      1990     1991     1992
Annual                            22.0     36.0      35.0     22.0       5.0
Cumulative                        22.0     58.0      93.0    115.0    120.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Pavement Strengthening:  142-35S with an average
of 232.
Incremental maiutenance: over 100%
1/ Including taxes and duties of about 122.
2/  Includes US$7.6 million for construction supervision and engineering
technical assistance.
3/  Includes US$5.6 million for plandinj and control, including technical
assistance, as well as uWintbnatadi zelated studies and training.
4/  Mainly foreign exchange c6sts of rcd maintenance works which would not
be eligible for financing under the project.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.01     To serve the needs of balanced regional development and rapid
urbanization in Algeria, the transport network is extensive and includes
44,000 km of primary (national) and secondary (regional) roads, of which
about 801 are paved, 33,000 km of local (community) roads, 4,000 km of
railways, 5,000 km of oil and gas pipelines, six main ports, and extensive
domestic air services (radiating from Algiers). Road transport carries by
far the largest share of totel traffic. Over 20 billion ton-km per year or
about 902 of total freight traffic and about 13 billion passenger-km per
year or over 90S of total passenger traffic by common carriers are carried
by road transport. While road traffic has increased at about 102 per year
over the past decade, the growth of rail traffic in recent years has lagged
behind mainly due to inadequate attention to track rehabilitation. Rail
traffic was essentially stagnant from 1980 to 1984 but showed substantial
increases in 1985 of 161 for freight and 9% for passenger traffic on
account of a major increase in domestic cereals production and of the com-
pletion of improvements to the Algiers - Thenia commuter rail line. Port
traffic consists mainly of hydrocarbon exports amounting to some 57 million,
tons in 1985 as well as major import volumes of general cargo, and bulk
traffic (mainly cereals and cement) estimated in 1985 at 10 million tons
and 6 million tons, respectively. Exports other than hydrocarbons traffic
amounted to less than 2 million tons in 1985.
B. Government Ormanization Related to Transport
1.02     In Algeria there are three tiers of government:   the National
Government with central ministries in Algiers, 48 regional entities
(Wilayas) with largely self-contained administrations, each subdivided
further into a number of comunes (Dara) who have local councils but depend-
on the Wilaya for administration. At the central level, the Ministry of
Transport (NOT) has the principal role in overseeing and regulating all
transport activities.   Its Directorate of Land Transport regulates both
railway and road operations, while other directorates regulate maritime
affairs and air transport. A separate directorate coordinates port activi-
ties which are managed by semi-autonomous port authorities. The National
Railway Service (SNTF), a semi-autonomous public agency under MOT, manages
railway operations and is responsible for maintenance and construction of
infrastructure. The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) oversees the mainte-
nance and construction of road, port and airport Infrastructure. The plan-
ning of port development is sometime made difficult by the division of
responsibility between MOT and MPW.



- 2 -
1.03     Alt MPW's responsibilities  'or maintenance and construction are
discharged through the Wilayas. These are politically important and have a
considerable degree of autonomy, which recent decentralization has rein-
forced. They also have a tradition of self-sufficiency so there is little
interdependence, economically or administratively, between neighboring
Wilayas.  The number of Wilayas was increased from 31 to 48 in 1983 in
reaction to relative neglect of the less populated portions of some larger
Wilayas by  their local administrations.   This points to the importance
placed by the Government on balanced regional development and the equitable
sharing of the resources allocated by the National Government.
1.04     Human resources planning and development are performed: (a) at a
macro lev,el through the assessment of manpower needs by the Ministry of
Planning, and (b) by the personnel department of the ministry responsible
for each sector, where the needs of subordinate sectoral units are aggre-
gated. Three committees, at the national level, are responsible for aggre-
gating data, and coordinating the actions between the various ministries:
the National Labor Committee, the National -ionsultative Committee for voca-
tional education and the National Agency for Development of Human
Resources. At the Wilaya level, there is also a human resources division
(Chart II) which covers the relevant activities at this level for all
sectors. Besides the education system operated by the three ministries in
charge of education, I/ the MPW and MOT and some transport enterprises
run their own schools, to provide for some of their needs. Grading of
personnel follows general rules which apply to all the sectors. The salary
attached to comparable posts is the same, whatever the sector. However, in
order to attract qualified personnel, or staff willing to work in the south
of the country (in the Sahara), some national and private enterprises pro-
vide staff with additional advantages such as the use of a car and housing.
C. Past Transport Investment
1.05     Until the late 1970s, very little had been done to improve the
transport system. However, rapidly increasing traffic volumes during the
1970s led to major investment in the sector during the 1980-84 Development
Plan, particularly for road infrastructure.   In spite of this, the rapid
growth in traffic, the large distances involved, and the size of the origi-
nal backlog, require continued effort to meet the needs for modernization
and rehabilitatiun, including strengthening, of the existing road infra-
structure. With a rapid increase in port traffic of about 8S per year from
1975 to 1984, the six major ports have experienced considerable congestion,
particularly in the eastern part of the country. This led to the develop-
ment of new facilities including extensions at the port of Bejaia, and a
start on a new port at Djen Djen.   Furthermore, although considerable
efforts have been made to improve productivity of the existing facilities
by eliminating direct delivery and making greater use of storage facili-
ties, there remains an urgent need for modernization and reduction of
handling costs in the ports. The railway has been hampered by a lag in
adjusting rail tariffs and has demonstrated low absorptive capacity for
investment, with priority having been given to construction of new lines.
17    Responsible for primary and secondary, university level and
vocational education, respectively.



The real priority for rehabilitation of a decayiuig network has until re-
cently been ignored mainly due to lack of local capability. There exists,
in consequence, a critical requirement for track overhaul on the mwin rail-
way network. Added to this picture are the transport needs generated by
regional development efforts, particularly on the Hauts Plateaux, and the
integrat4on of the deeper, desert southern areas with the rest of the
economy.
1.06     Total investrents in the transport sector during 1980-84 amounted
to about DA 30 billion (US$6.5 billion) compared with a planned amount of
DA 39 billion (US$8.5 billion). However, during implementation of the plan
there was a major shift in emphasis with road irfrastructure accounting for
over 50% of the investments, almost twice the level initially planned
(para. 2.31). In contrast, investment in railways were only one-third of
the planned level with much of the investment going into the construction
of new lines for which the economic justification remains to be demons-
trated.
D. Government Policy in the Sector
1.07     Despite increasing resource constraints, the Government continues
to give high priority to the development of the transport  sector.   In
effect, the current decline in oil revenue is bringing a greater sense of
urgency in dealing with many of the problems in the sector. Among the main
issues which the Government is quite correctly starting to address are the
need to: (i) improve operational efficiency and reduce operating costs in
the road transport industry, in the ports and in the railways; (ii) ration-
alize the transport investment plan by concentrating on high priority
rehabilitation programs and deferring some major investments in new infra-
structure, (iii) establish a sound pricing and fiscal policy including cost
based tariffs for railways and adjustments to road user taxation so that
trucks bear their share of road infrastructure costs; (iv) strengthen plan-
ning, project preparation and implementation at both the central and local
level; and (v) improve operational efficiency (reduce costs) in the mainte-
nance and improvement of the road network.   The proposed project would
include assistance and training for MOT to strengthen its planning, re-
search and coordination capabilities, including the creation of a ceiitral
transport data bank.
1.08     Until recently,  little attention has  been  paid  to appropriate
infrastructure cost recover.y and to pricing in the transport sector and
there has never been a clear policy on rail/road coordination. The Govern-
ment now inte.ads to give the railway the means to increase its role in
transport of long distance bulk traffic and to allow the SNTF to move
fairly quickly towards cost-based tariffs. An average increase in freight
tariffs of about 402 has recently been approved (August 1986), the first
such increase since 1979. However, the effect of this increase has already
been largely absorbed by recent retroactive salary increases and by inter-
est charges  on an  overdraft  of  DA 1.7 billion  (US$360 million).   As a
result the Government is actively considering a major financial restructur-
ing of SNTF.   Port tariffs already cover operating costs, although they
have not been adjusted in recent years. Two projects in the railways and



ports subsectors, which have been proposed for Bank financing and which are
currently being prepared, would address any financial issues in these sub-
sectors (para. 1.10). With these developments, it is now even more impor-
tant to establish a sound road user kaxation policy and particularly to
remove the current distortion in road transport costs which is the result
of the low cost of diesel fuel (para. 2.36).
E. Proposed Transport Investments
1.09    Although initial proposals for investment in the transport sector
during the 1985-89 Development Plan amounted to DA 58 billion (US$12.5 bil-
lion), actual levels are likely to fall far short. With the recent decline
in oil revenues and an expected fal'l in GDP growth from 62 to less than 12
per year, the focus of the Second Five-Year Development Plan (1985-89) is
now clearly on raising productivity in key sectors and enhancing economic
efficiency.
1.10    For the transport  sector,  this policy  implies  that  the major
thrust of investments in the sector will be toward: (a) planned preserva-
tion of existing infrastructure (maintenance, rehabilitation and strength-
ening rather than new construction); and (b) improving the financial viabi-
lity and efficiency of transport enterprises. A five-year core program,
identified during a Bank plan review mission, is being reviewed by the
Government. It would amount to about DA 44 billion (US$9.5 billion). Road
infrastructure would account for about 402 of the total and railways about
302. The emphasis would be on rehabilitation of existing infrastructure,
particularly for the railways,  and on a modernization program for the
existing ports. The construction of new railway lines would be implemented
at a slower rate than originally planned and limited to ongoing projects,
mainly the Beni Saf spur line and the R8mdane Jamel-Jijel line connecting
the  rail  network  to  the  planned  port of Djen Djen.   Similarly,  the
construction schedule for the new Djen Djen port which began in 1985, is
expected to be adjusted in line with revised port traffic prospects. The
Government has recently requested the Bank to support its program of
rehabilitation and modernization of railway and port infrastructure. For
this purpose, the proposed project includes the preparation of detailed
engineering for rehabilitation of railway infrastructure, a stuldy of port
equipment modernization needs and detailed engineering for a container
terminal in the Port of Algiers.
1.11     In  1985,  total  road  investments  reached  a  level  of  about
DA 5.3 billion (about US$1 billion), 30% of which were allocated to local,
rural roads.  Maintenance expenditures increased 40%, compared to 1984,
reaching DA 550 million (US$108 million), equivalent to about US$3,100 per
kilometer for paved roads (para 2.31). This is estimated to be about 60S
of the eventual requirement (para 2.35). The Government plans to continue
to give high priority to road maintenArce and to rehabilitation while grad-
ually reducing new investments on roads during the remainder of the 1985-89
Development Plan (para 2.34). However, while rehabilitation and p-Avement
strengthening schemes will account for the bulk of the future road invest-
ment program, capacity constraints are already being felt on major routes



- 5 -
in the vicinity of many of the larger cities. Further detailed studies are
currently planned on the east-west expressway with a view to continuing
construction of some of the highest priority sections during the current
1985-89 plan.
F. Previous Bank Prolects
1.12     In the transport sector, Algeria has received seven loano from the
Bank, for a total amount of US$495 million, to finance four projects for
roads, two for ports and one for railways. Annex 6 provides a suumary of
the content and  implementation  experiences during  these projects.   The
First, Second and Third Highway Projects (Loans 912-AL, 1407-AL and
1683-AL) have been completed and fully disbursed. The implementation of
the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1892-AL), approved in 1980, is about two
years behind schedule because of delays in bidding and evaluating alterna-
tive bids for construction of a major component. The Railway Project (Loan
996-AL), designed to support the railway's modernization program within the
1974-77 Development Plan, was mainly completed on schedule, however, the
closing date was extended to permit completion of several important
studies. The Bank participated in financing a major port at Bethioua (Loan
995-AL), designed for the export of Liquified Natural Gas. The implementa-
tion of an envisaged Second Port Project at Jijel (Loan 1427-AL) evaluated
in 1976 did not materialize because of the postponement of an associated
new steel complex. The loan was then cancelled in 1980.
1.13     The highway projects were all characterized by delays due in a
large part to (i) lengthy civil works contracting and approval procedures
and (ii) late start up of studies and consequent completion delays. The
project completion reports (and the Project Performance Audit-Report No.
2552, on Loan 912-AL) all concluded, however, that project objectives in
each case were met, although several times project components had to be
revised to keep pace with administrative and organizational changes taking
place in Algeria. A salient feature of the four previous highway projects
was the planning (Loan 912-AL) and subsequent implementation (Loans
1407-AL, 1683-AL and 1892-AL) of road maintenance institutional improve-
ment, coupled with strengthening of force-account maintenance capability
through equipment procurement  and training.   By  the  early  1980s,  the
regional equipment pools in each Wilaya, with their operators and mechan-
ics, had become the mainstay of road maintenance operational capacity.
However, the most recent organization change in 1984, separated the equip-
ment pools into autonomous enterprises (para. 2.13) with profound conse-
quences which are discussed in detail in the next chapter.
1.14     Current Government objectives  (pars.  1.07) are mainly institu-
tional, particularly the need to upgrade efficiency and to improve plan-
ning, control and management of investments. The Government is also aware
of the need to stimulate increased cost-effectiveness of road construction
and maintenance operations by local contractors. The Bank's past support
to the highway sector included financing for consulting services which led
to the start of systematic road data collection (traffic, road condition,
etc.), needed for planning and project preparation. The proposed project
would build on past assistance and focus on coordinating and effectively



using road data which is being gathered, while providing training in manag-
ing contracted road rehabilitation and maintenance operations.   It would
also expand data collection and training to encompass transport operations,
in addition to infrastructure, for all transport modes. The proposed proj-
ect action plan addresses these high priority matters.
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. General
2.01     The dominance  of  road  transport  over  other  modes  in  Algeria
(para. 1.01) is in part a result of the importance of import traffic. The
main transport flows originate from the country's main ports with substan-
tially  less  long  distance  movements  within  the country.   However,  an
increasing emphasis on the development of local production and import sub-
stitution, particularly of basic commodities, will cause a shift in this
pattern. Although the traffic growth rate may tend to decline in the near
future, due to the effect of the recent decline in oil revenues, this could
be offset by a shift in transport flows and an increase in interregional
movements. Together with the need to increase the efficiency of transport
operations and the need to minimize increases in annual road maintenance
costs, these developments will keep efficiency in maintenance and timely
road rehabilitation and modernization in the forefront of national priori-
ties.
B. The Network
2.02     The 48 Wilayas are served by a main road network comprising, in
1985, about 26,000 km of primary roads (RN-routes nationales) and 18,000 km
of secondary roads (CW-chemins de Wilaya). The primary roads interconnect
the Wilaya centers while the secondary roaas link these to other towns
within  the Wilaya.   The  remainder  of the classified network  (as shown
below) consists of tertiary roads (CC-chemins communaux) serving mainly
rural areas.
Road Network (km)               Paved      Unpaved      Total
Primary (National) Roads    RN        20,515      5,336       25,851
Secondary (Regional) Roads  CW        14,452      3,890       18,342
Local (Community) Roads      CC      10,122      23,578       33,700
45,089     32,804       77,893
2.03     This network, however, is far from uniformly distributed but fol-
lows the demographic distribution in Algeria which in itself has been
shaped by the topography and climate of the country. The main centers of
population and economic activity are located in the northern, fertile
regions of the country, in particular along the Mediterranean shore.   In
this region, the Wilaya will typically have a ratio of primary to secondary
roads of close to 1:2, or less. In the Haut- Plateaux, just to the south,



- 7 -
population is scarcer and tends to be concentrated in enclaves. The inter-
connecting national road length begins to exceed that of secondary roads, a
trend which is even more marked in the desert south, as distances between
oases become even greater.
2.04     Over the years the network of primary and secondary roads has ex-
panded through the reclassification of local roads as secondary roads and
some of the latter as primary roads. In this way, the primary and secon-
dary road network increased from 39,000 km in 1980 to 44,000 km in 1985.
During this period there was also a significant improvement in the condi-
tion of the network due to the high levels of investment on the one hand
and improved maintenance operations on the other hand.  In 1985,  it was
estimated that about 75% of the paved network was in good or fair condition
compared to 652 in 1980.
2.05     The efforts made since 1980 to modernize and rehabilitate the road
network (including pavement strengthening) need to be pursued further to
keep pace with the effects of growing and heavier traffic volumes on
lightly surfaced pavements. At the same time, Algeria is starting to face
severe capacity constraints on sections of the main road system, particu-
larly in the vicinity of the large urban centers like Algiers. This latter
concern has led to a planning study of a future east-west expressway
system.  A sub-directorate within MPW's road directorate  (para 2.14) is
responsible for implementation of this program the first stage of which has
already started (para 2.32).
C. Traffic and Road Transport
Road Transport
2.06     The actual vehicle fleet which is operating in Algeria is not
known accurately as vehicle registration data are not adjusted for vehicle
scrapping. The last accurate estimate was in 1976, when all registrations
were renewed.  The total fleet at  that  time numbered  480,000  vehicles
(including motorcycles, farm tractors, and trailers) of which 60% were
private cars, 20% light freight vehicles and about 15% trucks. Since then,
vehicle ownership increased only slowly due to restrictions on imports by
the Government, although recent measures were introduced to facilitate
imports of cars by migrant workers returning to Algeria.
2.07     Road transport is strongly regulatod in Algeria.  The total truck
fleet is estimated at about 65,000 vehicles with e total capacity of about
670,000 tons.  About 801 of the total vehicle fleet capacity is in the
hands of state-owned enterprises with 65X operating on own-account, the
latter serving the needs of large public enterprises as a part of much
larger operations in which the transport costs are not identified sepa-
rately. These operations are relatively inefficient and the Government is
now restricting further growth of own-account trucking as well as contem-
plating reorganization of the road transport fleets. Public freight trans-
port services are mostly provided by the National Trucking (freight) Ser-
vice (SNTR) and by a number of small regional companies. SNTR's role is
mainly in long distance transport and its fleet of about 2,300 tractor-
trailer units is operated efficiently.  The private sector is increasing



- 8 -
but currently represents only 202 of the total trucking capacity, of which
three-quarters operates on own-account. The remainder is composed of pri-
vate owner-operators who, until a recent change in legislation, which
allows war veterans to purchase vehicles of up to 10 tons gross weight,
were limited to the operation of vehicles of not more than 5.5 tons in
gross weight and only on short distances. Road passenger transport ser-
vices which were formerly concentrated in the hands of the state-owned
National Passenger Transport Service (SNTV), have recently been reallocated
among 5 regional companies. These operate about 2,200 buses, representing
about one-third of the bus fleet, on inter-city routes.  The other two-
thirds of the bus fleet are operated by urban transport companies.   The
proposed project includes assistance tc IMOT in its ongoing reorganization
of the road transport industry and related training (para. 3.13).
Road Traffic
2.08     Road traffic knowledge derives from past traffic counts conducted
on behalf of MPW (para. 2.18) by the National Public Works Laboratory
(LNTP). The traffic survey program has been gradually improved with tech-
nical assistance financed under Bank projects, and is now conducted by a
series of continuous count stations backed by secondary mobile stations
which will cover one half of road network annually. Nationwide surveys
were undertaken 1971/72, 1975/76 and in 1985. Based on an analysis of 11
continuous count stations on major routes, the average traffic growth was
about 131 per year from 1972 to 1976 and 82 per year from 1976 to 1985.
However, with the expected stagnation in the economy over the next few
years the rate of traffic growth is likely to fall somewhat in the imme-
diate future.
2.09     Traffic on primary roads, with 2-lane pavement widths generally
between 6 and 7 meters, averages about 1,900 vpd (range, 500 vpd to over
15,000 vpd).   Roads  carrying more  than 6,000 vpd have  generally been
widened to 3 or 4 lanes. About 802 of all vehicle-kilometers per year on
the primary roads are run on about 201 of the length of these roads, which
has served in selecting the top priority road sections for i3vestments in
modernization and rehabilitation.   Average  traffic volumes on secondary
roads, with pavement widths generally less than 6 meters are just under
1,000 vpd (range, less than 500 vpd to 5,000 vpd).
2.10     An axle load survey was undertaken by LNTP in 1985 covering some
60 survey stations.   Trucks with more than 5 tons capacity represented
about 64% of the trucks surveyed or about 152 of total traffic on the
primary road network. About 52 of the truck traffic had rear axle loads
exceeding the legal limit of 13 tons. At most stations 251 to 301 of the
trucks surveyed were empty (loaded to less than 101 capacity) while 151 to
30% were overloaded (gross weight). Although a part of the empty trips can
be attributed to fetching cargo from ports and long south to north move-
ments, nonetheless the data suggests that there is general overcapacity in
the trucking industry. Overloading remains relatively important because of
uneven usage of the truck fleet, but in most cases does not result in
excessive axle loads.



- 9 -
2.11     Road accident rates in Algeria are about three times the average
for most of the Common-Market countries and about twice the levels recorded
in Yugoslavia, Greece and Portugal. Driver's style and mentality contri-
bute greatly to this problem. However, the accident rate has been falling
in recent years due to major improvements in the road network, improved
traffic signs and a program of regular vehicle inspection. The proposed
project's action plan provides for assistance to review the problems of
road safety and to help establish a road safety program (para. 3.13).
D. Administration
2.12     The current organization of MPW is shown in Chart No. 1.   MPW is
directly responsible for all administration and planning of investments and
maintenance for the primary road (RN) network, for which funds are provided
through its budget.  Execution of works on the primary roads .s undertaken
or managed by its regional services (DIBs) in the 48 Wilayas (Chart 2).'
For secondary roads (CW), MPW also oversees the investment program, pro-
vides both technical control and support and ensures the implementation of
works and maintenance through the DIBs.  However,  allocations  for both
investment and maintenance on secondary roads come from the budgets of the
Wilaya who are responsible to Ministry of Interior. There is no organiza-
tion for planning, improving and maintaining local roads which results in a
frequent reclassification of the more important local roads into secondary
roads.  It is expected that the improved management and planning of road
maintenance under the proposed project (para 3.07) would pave the way to
addressing the problem of screening and selection of improvement projects
for local roads by the Wilaya staff (para. 2.34). MPW is also responsible
for port and airport infrastructure, both at the central level and also for
construction and maintenance at the local level through the DIBs.
2.13     Although, the engineering staff in the DIB's are shown on MPW's
recurrent budget and are responsible for ensuring that MPW's technical
standards and specifications are applied, the Director of Basic Infrastruc-
ture, is directly responsible to the Wali (the Government's representative)
for carrying out, on a daily basis, all approved programs. The role of the
DIBs in road maintenance operations, was dramatically changed in 1984. Up
until that time, DIB force account capability had been developed with
assistance from earlier Bank projects (para. 1.13). As of January 1, 1984,
1/ The regional services responsible for road infrastructure until very
recently have been called DIBs - Directions de Infrastructures de Base -
a  title used throughout  this  report.   The  reorganization  of  these
directorates into services is only just starting to be implemented.



- 10 -
the conversion of the DIB equipment pools, with their workshops, operators
and mechanical staff, into autonomous regional enterprises (ETRs), recast
the relationships of DIB engineering and managenent staff into that of con-
tract managers rather than operations managers. The reasorns and effects of
this change are discussed in more detail in section H, hereafter, and in
Annex 6 of this report.
2.14     The headquarters staff of MPW's Road Directorate (RD) is comprised
of a director, three sub-directors (road maintenance, road projects and
special projects), one engineer supported by nine technicians and seven
administrative staff. With the importance given to decentralization, prior-
ity in allocation of new engineering staff trained by MPW (para. 2.29) has
been given to staffing the regional DIBs and construction enterprises. The
DIBs employ about 1250 staff of whom about 325 are engineers (Annex 5) while
the 19 road, bridge and airport contractors overseen by MPW (not including
ETRs) employ about 110 engineers.  Regional laboratories and engineering
enterprises  emp'loy another  200 engineers.   This results in RD depending
almost entirely on consultants and the LNTP for centrally planned works and
relying on contractors, regional enterprises and the DIB staff in the
Wilayas for implementation of both construction and maintenance of the road
network, with sometimes insufficient capability to monitor results or to
adequately support relatively inexperienced DIB and regional organizations.
The Government recently (August 1986) promulgated legislation to expand the
LNTP's role into that of an engineering and technical quality control organ-
ization (CTTP-Organisme national de controle technique des travaux
publics). ' As a first step in implementing this change, and in order to
improve its capability to plan, support and monitor the pavement strengthen-
ing (road rehabilitation) and maintenance programs in the Wilayas, RD has
entered into an agreement with CTTP under which CTTP has established units
responsible for road rehabilitation programs (URC-Unite de Renforcement des
Chaussees) and road maintenance planning and management (DPGER-Direction de
Planification et Gestion de l'Entretien Routier), within a single department
which would be supnorted by the technical assistance component under the
proposed project. a
E. Planning
2.15     The general framework and medium/long term objectives of the sector
are defined in the five-year plans which take into account the MPW and the
Wilayas proposals for priority projects and programs, as well as Governmen-
tal nationwide political goals such as regional development objectives.
These proposals are consolidated by MPW for the highway subsector and event-
ually form the basis upon which a global estimate of the financial needs
1/ The reorganization of LNTP into the CTTP started to be implemented in
1987. Both titles are therefore used in this report, LNTP for references
prior to January 1, 1987, CTTP for reference thereafter.
2/ The names and acronyms URC and DPGER may be changed once the organiza-
tional change is fully implemented.



- 11 -
of the sector is established.  The Ministry of Planning (MOP) serves as a
screening authority to ensure that intersectoral distribution and overall
financial parameters are respected.  A tentative annual breakdown of the
plan reflecting priorities (deglobalisation of the plan) once adopted,
serves as the basis for successive annual budget laws (Lois de Finances)
which authorize implementation. MOP also screens specific project proposals
to ensure their conformance to authorized budgets and actual priorities. In
consultation with MPW it may reduce, modify the timing of execution or
eventually eliminate some initial proposals and, if needed, some new emer-
gency projects can be included in the "Loi de Finances". MOP also oversees
the breakdown of totals into the different budgets which depend on road
classification (primary, secondary or local) as well as into the budget
heads included in the capital and recurrent budgets respectively.
2.16     MPW prepares investment proposals, including pavement strengthen-
ing, for national and regional roads guided, for the most part, by a nation-
wide road master plan prepared in 1976 and on projects requested by the
Wilayas. Major new projects have usually been prepared through feasibility/
design studies performed by consultants. As the need for pavement strength-
ening has grown, MPW has, at times, encountered problems in synchronizing
the timing of such work along the same route traversing neighbouring
Wilayas, in accordance with technical and economic priority.   The Wilayas
tend to iew primarily their local priorities in preparing their budget
requests. Systematic planning of pavement strengthening has yet to be esta-
blished, the current program often being drawn up on an ad hoc basis from
lonal proposals.
2.17     Maintenance planning is largely decentralized to the Wilaya level
although overall budget allocations for national roads are made by the Sub-
directorate for Road Maintenance (SDM) in MPW, based on the programs submit-
ted by the DIBs.  The maintenance budgets for Wilaya roads are provided
through the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of proposals provided by
the DIBs.  SDM is starting to develop a monitoring system for road mainte-
nance operations, which would be further developed and expanCed under the
proposed project.
2.18     Programs of data gathering concerning the national road network,
in the form of road inventories, observed pavement condition, pavement
roughness and deflections as well as traffic count volumes, composition and
seasonal variations were started within LNTP with the assistance of consul-
tants engaged for design studies (para 2.16) under past Bank supported
projects. MPW intends that these data would be used to introduce pavement
management to which it is committed. Besides central planning of pavement
strengthening by URC (para. 2.14), effective pavement management would
require concurrent planning and establishing of priorities for maintenance
operations in the Wilayas. The DPGER, under the SDM's direction, would be
responsible, inter alia, for introducing and assisting with systematic plan-
ning and programming of maintenance operations, at the local level, and
coordinating the local plans with planned pavement strengthening at the
national level.



- 12 -
F. Detailed Engineering
2.19     Road and bridge geometric design standards in Algeria are based on
French standards and practice and are satisfactory.   Pavement design has
similarly followed French practices but has not yet been fully standard-
ized. MPW has traditionally relied on consulting firms, generally interna-
tional firms, for detailed engineering, usually as a second phase of the
road plantning studies. These firms have introduced various systems of pave-
ment dimensioning which will now be standardized by URC (para. 3.04). Cen-
tralized planning and design capability, which was being formed in the late
1970s, was disbanded as priority was given to meeting the demand for
engine-rs in the Wilayas and in road construction firms. Some design staff,
however, served as the nuclei of a number of national engineering enter-
prises, some located in the regions, who have performed an increasing share
of the detailed engineering for new roads, as the volume of construction
swelled  during  the  1980-85  period.   Previous  Bank-financed  pavement
strfngthening projects were also prepared and engineered by international
consulting firms who, in addition, provided technical assistance to LNTP
which initiated the data gathering programs described earlier (para 2.18).
Building on this base, MPW intends to develop local capability for design of
these rehabilitation projects (para. 2.14).
G. Construction
2.20     Construction of major road-works is carried out by contract, after
advertising, either nationally or internationally, depending on the magni-
tude and complexity of the project. Most major road projects during the
past decade have been awarded to a mix of local and international firms.
Local contracting capacity has been progressively developed, in the form of
specialized, state-owned road construction firms which were formed in dif-
ferent regions. In 1983, the larger of these contractors were split up into
smaller firms by separating branch offices established in different regions,
or established for special type works (such as bridges), into independently
managed entities.  Currently there are 19 road and bridge contractors of
this origin and 33 additional firms (ETRs) formed from the reorganization of
DIB equipment services (para. 2.13). This resulted in some shortages of
qualified management staff, which contributed to the delay in completing the
Third Highway Project (Loan 1683-AL). A number of private firms provide a
marginal supplement to this national, road construction capacity.
2.21     To serve other sectors requiring construction (housing, industry,
energy, water resources, etc.) other specialized, state-owned firms have
been formed in a similar manner. Multi-sectoral contracting capability has
not been encouraged and may exist only in some private firms. The Ministry
of Housing and Construction maintains rosters of qualified firms by their
specialities.   To qualify, highway firms uust be  judged  technically  and
financially able to undertake both paving and earthworks. The qualification
criteria are reasonable.



- 13 -
2.22     Competitive bidding  procedures  for both international and local
bidding are set out in a series of laws and regulations governing public
bids. Invitations to bid and the evaluation of bids is, as a rule, con-
ducted  by  the  Wilayas  concerned.   The  composition  of  the  evaluation
committee is specified by regulation and, in the case of highway works,
includes the DIB chief or his representative.  The proposed award of con-
tract is subject to review by a central bid commission before contracts are
finalized. On past Bank-financed projects, difficulties have been experi-
enced due to bid opening not being public, and awards being made only after
lengthy negotiations between the administration with the two, or sometimes
three  lowest bidders.   Although, by using comparative prices and design
refinements, the administration was able to obtain lower prices, the long
delay in awarding the contract often resulted in cost escalation eroding
most, if not all, of the negotiated advantage as well as potential benefits
being lost due to delayed completion of the works. After protracted discus-
sions between Bank representatives and the Government in late 1985, the
Government agreed to use the Bank guidel4nes for future Bank-financed
projects. Revisions to the corresponding regulations are being drafted for
issuance to the Wilayas.
2.23     Supervision of construction is carried out either by consultants
engaged as advisors to the responsible DIB, or directly by DIB staff (some-
times reinforced with additional staff seconded for contract management)
supported by the national and/or regional laboratories (LTP). The LTPs were
formed primarily for this role of quality control but may also provide test-
ing services for detailed engineering. Like the LNTP, they are financially
autonomous and are contracted by the DIBs for specific projects or programs.
H. Maintenance
2.24     Until  1984  road maintenance in Algeria was performed mostly by
force account by the DIB in each Wilaya.   The DIBs were responsible ior
managing the equipment service, procurement of materials and hiring of
labor. Periodic maintenance operations were in some cases placed out to
contract. Programming of maintenance operations was also undertaken at the
local level generally in accordance with service levels, frequencies and
procedures which had been  prepared by consultants' studies in the late
1970's but with little overall monitoring by the SDM. The DIB organization
was also based on the recommendations of these studies but with some modifi-
cations introduced in 1980 when the number of Wilayas was increased. Bank
loans provided support by financing the procurement of equipment and the
provision of training (para. 1.13).
2.25     The 1984 conversion of the equipment services to ETR's (para. 2.13)
created ,zroblems. DIB staff, particularly at sub-division level, trained
over the past decade to control force-account operations, inculcated with
the responsibility of public service and unused to the longer term planning
needed to anticipate maintenance work requirements, have experienced dif-
ficulty in adapting to the loss of direct control of the workforce.   In
consequence, a frequent response has been to rent back the equipment from
the ETRs, in some cases at rates substantially higher than formerly used, so



- 14 -
as to revert to a force-account work style.  Where payment by unit-prices
for routine maintenance operations has been used, in whole or in part, the
ETRs have been reluctant to respond to demands for uneconomical, isolated
repairs for which no special compensation mechanisms have been developed.
Periodic maintenance, such as sealing, for which some tradition of contract-
ing existed, was more easily integrated in the procedures required by the
new organization. In light of the changed responsibilities of the DIB main-
tenance managers, the emphasis in MPW would now be directed more to improve
the planning and management of road maintenance operations.   The proposed
project, while providing support for the strengthening of planning activi-
ties for both road rehabilitation and road maintenance, will concurrently
provide on-the-job management training.
2.26     Maintenance  unit prices, and in many instances equipment rental
scales, are frequently being held down through imposition of rates on the
ETRs, under negotiated contracts, by the DIB directors who, in a dual role,
now participate or head the supervisory council overseeing the management of
the new ETR. Prices for comparable work on new construction or road im-
provements are frequently as much as 50% more than those paid for maintenan-
ce operations.   The financial value of maintenance works often represents
only about 30% to 35% of the ETR's total annual volume. The arbitrary impo-
sition of unit-price ceilings creates cost distortions. New construction
prices appear to subsidize maintenance work, with routine maintenance opera-
tions probably benefitting from the greatest subsidy. The introduction of
competitive bidding procedures for maintenance work under the project should
serve to establish fair market prices and determine the competitiveness of
the ETRs with older established firms.
2.27     Maintenance contracts, within a given Wilaya, are almost  always
negotiated with firms based in that Wilaya.  Preference in most cases has
been given to the ETRs and nearly all maintenance work has been given out
under a single contract, for ease of administration. Efficiency and produc-
tivity have been sought only through the imposition of price ceilings. This
has led to certain anomalies, for instance, ETRs produce and transport their
own crushed stone or gravel products throughout the Wilaya, even to loca-
tions closer to other crusher installations.  They also sell some of their
crushed stone, so their crusher operation does not depend entirely on main-
tenance demands, but sales are limited as a rule only to users in their
Wilaya. There is, therefore, scope for reducing transport costs if a more
rational use is made of installed capacity and if the traditional barriers
to seeking suppliers or customers from neighbouring Wilayas can be removed.
The proposed project would seek to broaden the use of competitive bidding
for maintenance works and to develop the required planning and control
procedures.
I. Human Resources Development
2.28     Within  MPW  the  personnel  and  training  management  organization
includes:
(a) a steering comuittee for public works sector training which
includes representatives of MPW, of the public construction



- 15 -
enterprises and of both the engineering and laboratory enter-
prises over which it has o-ersight responsibility.  This com-
mittee, which operates on an ad-hoc basis is responsible for
approving the pluri-annual training plan to be implemented by
the sector, based on the proposals presented by the planning
and training directorate; and
(b) personnel, and career development (training) sub-directorates.
In addition, in the DIBs there are personnel officers who administer skilled
weirkers and liaise with the Wilaya human resources division, but provide no
direct training, and in the public enterprises there are personnel divisions
as well as training units (in the larger enterprises).  Each enterprise is
required by law to submit annually its updated pluri-annual training program
and its current program for the year in question to the Ministry of
Vocational  Education and Labor.   This  exercise  is  important because it
involves the enterprises in participating in the vocational training effort
(apprenticeship) and also because it responds to the enterprises' need to
improve the qualification of their staff. Annex 5 provides more detail.
2.29     Until recently, MPW was operating two engineering schools,  seven
vocational schools for technicians and supervisors and one training center
in Bethioua for equipment operators and mechanics.   The  latter financed
partly by the Bank (Annex 6) trained a total of about 10 instructors, 125
operators and 130 mechanics as well as providing some satellite, on-the-job
training to operating and workshop staff of public road construction enter-
prises. New assessment of personnel needs, after DIB reorganization (para.
2.13), led to closing of several of these schools including the Bethioua
center in 1986. MPW estimates that about 750 engineers, 1100 higher techni-
cians and 800 technicians will be needed for the period 1986-1990. These
large numbers are the result of new vacancies and decentralization, aggra-
vated by the increase of the number of DIBs from 33 to 48. MPW now operates
only one engineering school and three vocational schools for higher-level
technicians.   By 1990, MPW's schools should be able to meet most of the
demands.   With  the expected  fall  in new  investments  in roads  and  the
increasing emphasis on road maintenance, the present technical skills within
the road construction industry will be increasingly applied to road mainte-
nance works.   If more or better trained personnel are needed,  technical
training at this level would be provided by MPW schools (technicians) and by
the Ministry of Vocational Training (operators and mechanics).
2.30     Personnel management in MPW is static.   Present policy does not
provide encouragement for staff to increase their productivity and exper-
tise.   Engineers  and  technicians  receive  only basic  training  from MPW
schools. There is presently neither the organization nor policy for prepar-
ing and implementing continued training aimed at systematically improving
skills of MPW personnel. The quality of training provided by MPW's schools
and vocational institutions needs the following improvements: (a) skills of
teachers need upgrading and more teachers with a higher educational back-
ground, are needed in the engineering field; (b) curricula need to be
improved and made more specific and relevant to the public works sector



- 16 -
activities, (such as road maintenance, soils laboratories, surveying and use
of computers); and (c) books, didactic material, equipment and materials for
the various schools are also required. MPW is presently receiving support
from EEC and French bilateral aid. As a result, some of the major enter-
prises in the road sector have recently signed contracts with European
institutions and agencies in the civil engineering field to obtain assis-
tance in the development and training of their personnel.   The proposed
project's human resources component will, therefore, aim at complementing
the educational support with project related training.
J. Expenditures, Revenues and Accounts
Expenditures
2.31     Total  investments  on  roads  increased  dramatically  during  the
1980-84 Development Plan, averaging about DA 3.3 billion (US$720 million)
annually compared with only DA 580 million per year (US$145 million) during
the 1976-79 period. Maintenance expenditures on primary and secondary roads
did not increase as significantly during this same period and averaged about
DA 350 million (US$77 million) annually for paved roads, equivalent to about
US$2,600 per kilometer of paved road. However, compared to 1984, there was
a substantial 40% increase in maintenance expenditures on primary and
secondary roads in 1985, reaching DA 550 million (US$108 million).
Expenditures on Roads 1980-85
(DA million - current prices)
1980     1981    1982     1983      1984    1985
Investments'-
Primary Roads             827    1,094   1,560    2,078    2,434   2,825
Secondary Roads           332       495     854      895       938     914
Local Roads               396       509   1,007    1,426    12478   1,553
1,555    2,098   3,421    4,399    4,850   5,292
(US$ million)              (405)    (486)   (745)    (918)    (974) (1,038)
Maintenance Expenditures2'
Primary Roads             221       243     289      265       268     346
Secondary Roads            85        85      69       88       122     204
Local Roads               n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       n.a.    r.a.
306      328     358      353       390     550
(US$ million)               (80)      (76)    (78)     (74)      (78)   (108)
1/ Ministry of Finance, Mission Estimates
2/ Ministry of Public Works, MJssion Estimates.



- 17 -
2.32     Investments  on roads,  during  the period  1980-85,  were  divided
between modernization (50X), rehabilitation, including pavement strengthen-
ing (20%), and construction of about 100 km of limited access expressways
around Algiers (about 301 of the program). Modernization of about 400 km of
primary, roads, supported by earlier Bank highway projects (Annex 6), in-
cluded improvements to the RN5 between Boudouaou and Lakhdaria in the early
1980s, the RN1 between La Chiffa and Berrouaghia, completed in 1985, and
modernization of the RN9 road between Bejaia and Setif, still ongoing. Road
rehabilitation, pavement strengthening and maintenance overlay programs,
which were also supported by Bank projects, reached a rate of implementation
of about 500 km per year on primary roads, a substantial increase over the
low levels during the 1970s, yet insufficient to meet much of the backlog
from previous years. Based on a current estimate of about 4,000 km of roads
with more than 3,000 vpd, many of which will require strengthened pavement,
and taking into account the backlog of maintenance overlays on roads with
lower traffic, the combined rehabilitation levels need to be increased to
about 800 km per year. This would be the main focus of road investments
during the 1985-89 Development Plan.
2.33     Investments in roads during 1985-89 are expected to reach a total
of about DA 17 billion (US$3.7 billion) of which about 602 would be allo-
cated to primary roads, 201 to secondary roads and 202 to local roads. The
investment proposals are as follows:
Core Road Investment Program 1985-89
(DA million - current prices)
Expected         Total          Initial
Actual       Expenditure    Core Program         Plan
1985          1986-89         1985-89         1985-89
Primary Roads       2,825          7,175           10,000           8,000
Secondary Roads       914          2,386            3,300           2,000
Local Roads         1,553          2,447            4,000           7,300
5,292        12,008           17,300           17,300
2.34     A proposed core investment program for roads was discussed with
the Government during a Bank plan review mission (para 1.10).  As a whole,
the proposed core program would remain in line with the initial plan pro-
posals, but the highest priority would be given to the primary and secon-
dary road network where investment levels would be expected to exceed the
initial plan allocations. However. substantial cuts are expected in local
road programs where there is currently a need to improve the selection of
such roads and to rationalize design standards (para. 2.12). The costs to
complete ongoing projects on primary and secondary roads, as of the end of
1985,  were estimated at about DA 5 billion  (US$1.l billion).   Based on
total investments of about DA 9 billion (US$1.9 billion) on primary and
secondary roads, during the remaining four-year period, 1986-89, the re-
mainder of the plan will only allow a limited volume of new investments in
roads. The main emphasis of both the ongoing and planned investments is to



- 18 -
step up the rate of rehabilitation of the main road network to about 800 km
per year (para. 2.32). This would account for about half the total invest-
ment in national and regional roads during 1985-89, with the remainder
allocated to the completion of ongoing projects and to investments in high
priority expressway sections in the Algiers area (para. 1.11).   The pro-
posed project will provide support for this program, in particular by
strengthening  the  implementation  capacity  for  road  rehabilitation.   In
addition to an annual review of road maintenance allocations, MPW would
provide the Bank with its proposed annual expenditure programs in accord-
ance with the pxovisions of the Project Action Plan (para 3.25).
2.35     Current maintenance allocations for 1986 amount to DA 388 million
for primary roads (US$84 million) and DA 221 million (US$48 million), an
overall increase of about 10 over actual expenditures in 1985. However,
estimates of maintenance costs based on work standards, crews and produc-
tivity recommended in the maintenance study of the mid-1970's indicate that
the annual budget for primary and secondary roads should be further
increased to about DA 900 million (US$196 million) in order to provide for
adequate maintenance of about 30,000 km of paved roads.  This estimate of
about DA 30,000 (US$6,500) per kilometer appears high and may, to some
extent, fail to reflect the improvements in road condition and road stan-
dard which have occurred over the past decade.  However, it does take into
account the increasing length of paved roads needing maintenance, the
increased costs of materials and equipment, the contractors overheads and
the taxes levied on all contracts.  Since accurate cost accounts have not
been maintained, data to support the estimates are not available. As part
of the pilot road maintenance program under the proposed project,  such
accounting would be introduced. Meanwhile, the Government has agreed to
continue increasing maintenance allocations for primary roads with the
objective of reaching DA 600 million (US$130 million) by 1989. This would
represent an increase in maintenance allocations on primary roads of about
16S per year during the period 1986-89.   In addition, MPW proposes  to
increase the road maintenance budgets in the project's pilot Wilayas (para.
3.06) to levels generally about 50% above the 1986 initial allocations.
The eetimated costs of the road maintenance programs in the pilot Wilayas
are consistent with these proposed increases.   Implementation of the road
maintenance programs in the pilot Wilayas, under the proposed project,
would serve to better establish the size of the adjustments required in the
nationwide maintenance budget.
Revenue
2.36     Government statistics on road user taxes and charges show that as
a whole road user revenue substantially exceeds expenditures on road
investment and maintenance.   In 1984, total revenue from all taxes and
duties on fuel amounted to DA 7.8 billion (US$1.6 billion) with a further
DA 330 million (US$66 million) accruing from taxes on the sale of second-
hand vehicles and insurance taxes. Virtually all of the revenue from fuel
taxes comes from gasoline which is priced substantially above world market
prices.   On the other hand,  the price of diesel fuel is currently only
one-fifth of the price of gasoline and is equivalent to about US$200 per



- 19 -
metric ton.  Although this is now above the current low border price for
diesel fuel, a pump price increase would probably be justified to provide
cost recovery for transport and storage of diesel fuel as well as a tax
element to cover road infrastructure costs attributable to heavy vehicles.
The Government is now expected to increase the price of diesel fuel, which
should reduce consumption thereby ensuring additional volumes for expott
and at the same time increasing the recovery of road infrastructure costs
attributable to heavy vehicles. The proposed project would include a study
of road user taxation in order to determine the extent of adjustments
required for road user charges for different categories of vehicles.
Accounts
2.37     The budgeting, accounting and control procedures of the Algerian
national and local governments derive from former French practice. Annual
budget laws are approved by the legislative branch, based upon commitment
authorizations requested by the various ministries from the MOP which
issues corresponding program authorizations in order for them to be in-
cluded in the state budget.   These authorizations provide authority for
ministries or Wilayas to enter into multi-annual contracts while the budget
will only provide funds for the fiscal year in question (January to Decem-
ber). Budget preparation takes place in March-April, for submission to the
Financial Commission of the Popular Assembly in July and is voted on,
usually, in September. The approved budget contains global amounts, recur-
rent budgets by ministry and investment budgets by sector. This leaves the
internal distribution of budgetary allocations to the technical ministries.
2.38     The principles and procedures of budgetary accounting are based on
a general regulation which, although no longer a law, is still, by and
large, applied.  Control is exercised by Ministry of Finance (MOF) offi-
cials, placed in ministries and Wilayas, who approve commitments and act as
paying agents. The system of accounts is single-entry, on a cost basis,
but is well suited for project requirements. The "Inspection G6&4rale des
Finances" (Government Audit) carries out yearly programs of audits includ-
ing, when deemed necessary, spot checks (missions ponctuelles).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01     The Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1985-89, places maintenance
of the highway network as the primary objective for road infrastructure
followed by strengthening of principal roads and improvements to certain
main routes, in that order (para 2.34). The Bank's role in supporting the
highway sub-sector in Algeria is to encourage improved cost-effectiveness
of all operations contrituting to the sufficiency, economy and durability
of the road network. During 1987 and 1988, the proposed loan would help
finance about 252 of all new road investment, as well as about 25% of road
maintenance work.



- 20 -
3.02     The proposed project would:  (i) contribute to reducing the back-
log of pavement strengthening requirements; (ii) help rationalize planning
and control of this work, by developing procedures and qualified capability
within na aonal and local administrations; (iii) introduce and test mea-
sures to improve planning and control as well as operational efficiency in
road maintenance, the latter through appropriate introduction of competi-
tion in contracting of maintenance works and by rationalizing maintenance
planning; (iv) serve to eliminate distortions in maintenance costs which
are basic inputs to formulating and optimizing pavement management strate-
gies; (v) strengthen personnel management and training functions in MPW and
MOT; (vi) support the creation of a transport investigation study and plan-
ning center under MOT's direction,  to improve policy formulation;  (vii)
provide related training to staff of MOT and transport enterprises under
its aegis; (viii) identify critical organizational, institutional and phys-
ical constraints in road transport, and formulate a realistic road user
taxation policy; and (ix) provide for preparation of detailed engineering
for high priority railway and port projects.
B. Project Description
3.03     The project comprises:
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
(a) a two-year pavement strengthening program on about 400 km of
primary roads;
(b) a two-year pilot program of road maintenance (1987-88), in
which suitable works, including about 1000 km per year of
pavement sealing, would be contracted through competitive
bidding.
Assistance, Training and Research
(c) technical assistance to CTTP to develop:
(i) improved collection and use of road network data;
(ii) technical and economic optimization of pavement
strengthening programs, preparation of detailed
engineering and supervision of construction thereof;
(iii) systematic preparation, and improved implementation and
control of road maintenance programs.
(d) carry out a program of research into the use of natural
materials for construction in Algeria;
(e) training of MPW personnel, in particular:
(i) strengthening personnel management;



- 21 -
(ii) strengthening skills of MPW teachers and instructors and
training new ones; and
(iii) strengthening skills of field laboratory staff and of
DIB engineers and technicians through the technical as-
sistance provided in (c) above.
(f) training of MOT personnel, and of personnel of transport
enterprises (road and railway) overseen by MOT, in particular:
(i) strengthening MOT's personnel management;
(ii) strengthening skills of personnel assigned to the per-
sonnel and training departments, divisions and units of
the sector;
(iii) preparing and implementing training programs in the
fields of transport, equipment maintenance and spare
parts management, road safety, fuel economy, project
evaluation and management, including overseas training
visits for key staff.
Studies
(g) preparation of a comprehensive, multi-modal transport study
for Algeria, which would include:
(i) identifying critical constraints in road transport;
(ii) diagnosing road traffic safety problems;
(iii) analyzing road user charges; and
(iv) defining the organizational requirements of a multi-
modal transportation investigation and planning center.
(h)  preparation of detailed engineering for 200 km of  railway
track rehabilitation,
(i)  preparation  of  a  port  equipment  modernization  study  for
Algeria;
(j)  preparation of detailed engineering for a container terminal
in the port of Algiers; and
(k) evaluation of a maritime shipping model.
Equipment and Supplies
(1) procurement of about 20 light-vehicles to support activities
by technical assistance and counterpart staff in CTTP;



- 22 -
(m)  procurement of desk-top computers for use in road maintenance
programming and management;
(n)  procurement  of books and other training materials for MPW
tecanicians training; and
(o) procurement of specialized equipment to support MOT's program
of vehicle inspection.
Road Rehabilitation
3.04     About 400 km of road sections would be included for strengthening
under the project. The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost
component of the pavement strengthening contracts, and the cost of detailed
engineering and construction supervision services contracted by the DiBs.
MPW has decided to develop in-country capability to meet the continuous
need to identify, prioritize and engineer this type of roadworks and has
engaged CTTP, under terms and conditions satisfaciaory to the Bank, to
develop detailed engineering, construction supervision procedures and
standards and  to oversee their application by DIBs and LTPs.  The URC
(Pavement Strengthening Unit) within the CTTP assisted by consultants would
be  responsible  for  this  work.   Procedures  for  dimensioning  pavement
strengthening needs (Annex 3) and the method of economic analysis (Annex 4)
would be refined during the course of the project. The Project Action Plan
provides for the appointment of consultants to URC during the first half of
1987. Terms of reference for services and staffing levels were agreed at
negotiations.
3.05     Bids would be invited internationally, in April 1987, for pavement
strengthening on the first 150 km of roads, which include portions of the
RN3 between Ain Touta and Biskra (49 km), the RN4 between Mouzaia, Khemis
Miliana and Rouina (54 km), and the RN5 between M'Chedallah and Borj Bou
Arreridj (50 km). Preparation of the second tranche of pavement strength-
ening would begin in May 1987. The criteria for approval of the roads to
be included in the second tranche are: (i) quality of preparation and
analysis acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) ER of the investment at least
equal to 12Z. During negotiations it was agreed that these criteria could
only be altered by mutual agreement between the Government and the Bank.
Road Maintenance
3.06     Seven Wilayas are included in the pilot road maintenance program
which would be supported by the project: Bouira, Medea and Chlef (Central
Region), Tlemcen and Mascara (Western Region), Batna (Eastern Region) and
Ouargla (Southern Region) (IBRD Map No. 19890R). The Bank loan would fi-
nance the foreign exchange component of programs of maintenance works which
would be let through local competitive bidding, under procedures acceptable
to the Bank (para 3.29). These programs would include all periodic pave-
ment and shoulder maintenance (the most easily contracted work) and
selected, samples, of routine maintenance activities (such as mechanical
ditch reshaping, furnishing crushed aggregates to designated depots, culvert



- 23 -
cleaning and repair and other types of foreseeable works) for cost compari-
son to work performed under direct sub-division management uring rented
equipment. In some cases, equipment rental rates might also be the subject
of bids. During project preparation it was estimated that in 1987 princi-
pally periodic maintenance work would be bid competively, while in 1988
bids would be invited for all maintenance work on primary roads as well as
all periodic maintenance and some routine maintenance on secondary roads.
During project supervision this aspect would be closely monitored to ensure
that adequate evaluation could be made by SDM of the intended objectives.
These programs would be reviewed annually, in 1987 and 1988, by SDM for
conformance with the following criteria for eligibility for financing under
the loan: (i) that all periodic maintenance operations in the Wilaya are
included; (ii) that the proposed bidding lots are suitable (geographically
and by work content) for efficient execution; and (iii) that due consider-
ation has been given to taking advantage of installed capacity (fixed plant
locations  and/or contractor's  operational  bases).   These  criteria  were
confirmed during negotiations.
3.07     The removal of the maintenance equipment pools from direct DIB
control (para. 2.13) also requires a different form of planning, management
and control by DIB staff. In accordance with the Project Action Plan, the
DPGER (Road Maintenance Planning and Management Unit) has been established
within the CTTP as part of the agreement with MPW.  The DPGER with the
assistance of consultants who would bj engaged by mid 1987, would work with
the DIBs in seven pilot Wilayas in improving maintenance planning, proce-
dures, control, management and cost effectiveness. Specifically, improved
maintenance planning would include: (i) developing simple systems for pro-
granmming of road maintenance works according to economic priorities; (ii)
identifying contract packages (grouped by work type and/or location) suit-
able for economic and efficient execution; (iii) establishing appropriate,
competitive contracting practices to stimulate more efficient operations;
and (iv) evaluating alternatives for the execution of less predictable work
executed in isolated locations or small quantities. Training DIB staff to
meet these goals and in improved cost accounting would be included. Locat-
ing both the URC and the DPGER in the LNTP, would permit integrated plan-
ning of pavement strengthening as part of the total road maintenance
effort.   The cost effectiveness of force-account operations compared to
contracted operations under different conditions, representative of the
different regions of the country, would also be defined under the pilot
program for later dissemination to the remaining Wilayas throughout the
country.
3.08     The success of the program would depend not only on the efforts of
the CTTP and DIB staff but also on the response of the Algerian roadworks
contractors  (public and private).  It is expected that these contractors
would be increasingly interested in maintenance works as the volume of road
improvement and new construction work declines (para. 2.34). The overall
road maintenance budgets and the allocations to the pilot Wilayas would be
established in accordance with the provisions set out in the project action
plan. Bank financing would provide for the foreign exchange cost of
(i) agreed programs of maintenance contracts, in the pilot Wilayas, let



- 24 -
through competitive bidding; and (ii) related technical assistance. During
loan negotiations, confirmation was obtained from Government that it would
carry out the maintenance operations in the pilot Wilayas in accordance
with agreed annual programs (i) setting forth physical targets and budget-
ary appropriations; and (ii) identifying maintenance work which would be
contracted by competitive bidding.
Assistance, Training and Research
3.09     The consultants, providing assistance to CTTP would both train
local counterparts and assist these in training of DIB and LTP staff.
Short-term assistance would also be eligible for financing under the pro-
ject for (i) continued preparation and updating of a road inventcry and
data bank; (ii) expanding the program of annual traffic counting and analy-
sis; and (iii) assisting MPW in improving personnel management. All the
consultants would be contracted by the CTTP with the approval of MPW under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. Terms of reference for con-
sulting assistance for URC and DPGER are included in an annex to the signed
convention between MPW and CTTP which defines the terms and conditions of
CTTP '  services.   The convention was reviewed during negotiations and is
satisfactory. A total of about 80 man-months of consultants' services are
expected to be required.
3.10     MPW has also proposed an applied research program during late 1987
and 1988 for improved use of local materials in road building, as in many
areas of the country top quality materials are scarce. This program would
be conducted within the framework of graduate studies at MPW's engineering
school, which would be financed by bilateral aid. During negotiations, as
part of the Project Action Plan, it was agreed that the Bank would be kept
regularly informed as regardls this program.
3.11     The project will also finance as a complement to, and in coordina-
tion with, actions financed by other international and bilateral aid agen-
cies (mainly European Community and French Aid): (i) a program of seminars,
directed both at MPW and DIB engineers and at public enterprise technical
and management staff, using guest lecturers from Algeria and from foreign
public works institutions and (ii) a program of fellowships. The detailed
program would be submitted to the Bank by September 1987 in accordance with
the Project Action Plan.
3.12     The project ir'cludes an estimated 284 man-months of  consultant
services for developing the personnel management function, including train-
ing throughout the transport sector, and preparation and implementation of
training plans for MOT personnel and also for employees of transport enter-
prises, in conjunction with the studies described here below. The project
also provides for 152 months of overseas training, including technical
visits and seminars.  The terms of reference of the technical assistance
required, and the program of proposed fellowships would be presented to the
Bank for review and comment in accordance with the Project Action Plan.



- 25 -
Studies
3.13     The Government is seeking to increase the efficiency of the road
transport sector. To this end MOT intends to have a comprehensive study of
transport in Algeria prepared by staff selected from the main transport
agencies and enterprises as well as from within the ministry itself. This
team would also be assisted by outside consultants and experts. The study
team would (i) initiate data collection and storage in a data bank, (ii)
analyse specific high priority topics (study sub-components) and (iii) pre-
pare recommendations regarding the organization, composition and opera-
tional requirements of a multi-modal transport investigation study and
planning center which MOT intends to establish under its own direction.
During negotiations it was agreed that the overall study would be completed
not later than June 30, 1989.  Specific topics within the overall study
which have been included in the Project Action Plan for early execution are
(i) a study of critical constraints affecting road transport, and of orga-
nizational options for the sub-sector, (ii) a diagnostic study of road
safety, and (iii) a study of road user charges to determine if the existing
price levels and taxation of vehicles and fuel are adequate and equitable.
Draft terms of reference for the studies are in the project file and are
presently under review by the Government. The Project Action Plan provides
for the studies (1) and (ii) to be completed by March 31, 1988, while due
to the large a.mot of data collection required and its complexity (see
Annex 2), study (iii) would not be completed until September 30, 1988.
During negotiations, confirmation was obtained that after taking into
account the Bank's comments regarding the recommendations of the studies,
the Government would formulate action plans and take all measures necessary
to implement them.
3.14     The Government is according high priority to the rehabilitation of
main lines of the railway network. The goal is to rehabilitate at least
400 km of the most heavily travelled sections of the network during the
period 1988-1990. The Government intends to seek Bank financing for the
rehabilitation works. Detailed engineering for 200 km has been prepared
with bilateral financing, and the remainder of the detailed engineering and
preparation of bid documents would be financed under the project. During
negotiations it was agreed that this work would be completed not later than
April 30, 1988.
3.15     The Government recognizes the need to improve the capacity of the
semi-autonomously managed Algerian ports, by means of modernizing port
facilities and equipment including, in particular, adding equipment to
handle container and ro-ro traffic. It intends to seek Bank financing for
this program which would include the construction of a container terminal
in the port of Algiers.  A study of port capacities throughout Algeria,
with special attention to equipment requirements, would be financed under
the project as well as the preparation of detailed engineering and bid
documents for the port of Algiers container terminal.   In addition,  the
project would finance a study of the desirability of installing a maritime
shipping model as an integrated part of planning port requirements. Terms
of reference for these studies are being prepared and after review by the
Bank they would be carried cut by consultants engaged in accordance with



- 26 -
Bank Guidelines. During negotiations it was agreed that the preparation of
detailed engineering and bid documents for the container terminal in the
port of Algiers and the study for port equipment modernization would be
completed no later than March 31, 1988 and that after taking into account
the Bank's comments on the study's recommendations, the Government would
formulate an action plan and take all measures necessary to implement it.
Equipment and Supplies
3.16     As part of the austerity measures  taken by  the Government  to
reduce foreign exchange expenditures, importation of vehicles by government
agencies has been curtailed.  For CTTP and their consultants  to perform
their functions in the pilot Wilayas, an estimated 20 light vehicles would
be needed. The cost of these would be financed under the project. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that MPW would be authorized to pur-
chase the vehicles.
3.17     As a part of CTTP's services in developing improved road mainte-
nance planning and management, it intends to introduce the use of desk-top
computers for data storage, analysis and reporting in the Pilot Wilayas.
The cost of the desk-top computers would be financed under the project.
During negotiations it was agreed that CTTP would present the program and
schedule for this acquisition for review and comment by the Bank not later
than October 31, 1987.
3.18     In parallel with fellowships and seminars to improve educational
quality there is a need for up-to-date textbooks from overseas, in MPW's
schools. The project would finance the foreign exchange cost of purchasing
textbooks  and  training materials.   During negotiations confirmation wasB
obtained that a list of texts and teaching materials would be presented to
the Bank for review and comment not later than October 31, 1987.
3.19     As part of the effort to increase public road transport efficiency
and safety, improved vehicle inspection is being sought by MOT. New in-
spection facilities are being planned for several locations. Based on the
recommendations of the diagnostic study of road safety (para 3.13), spe-
cialized vehicle inspection equipment and/or other hardware needed to
implement improved road safety programs would be eligible for financing
under  the project.   During negotiations  confirmation was obtained that
detailed studies evaluating equipment netds, would be presented to the
Bank, for review and comment by June 30, 1988.
C. Project Cost Estimates
3.20     Project costs by components are summarized in Table 3.1.  All base
costs are estimated at March 1987 prices. The cost of pavement strengthen-
ing for the first tranche (about 150 km) is based on completed detailed
engineering while that of the second tranche (about 250 km) is estimated
per kilometer  from  the above  costs.   Unit prices are based on prices
received on bids for projects of similar magnitude and nature. The cost of
the entire maintenance program in the seven pilot Wilayas is based upon
current estimates of maintenance unit prices and work quantities used



- 27 -
in the Wilaya's submission for their 1987 maimntenance programs (Annex 1).
The estimates of maintenance contracts eligible for Bank financing in
accordance with an agreed bidding program in 1987 are based on the costs
of all periodic maintenance operations.
3.21     An allowance for the cost of (f) vehicle inspection equipment or
other safety equipment of US$1 million and (ii) books, teaching materials
and desk-top computers of US$2 million has been provided in the project.
Actual costs for the former would be subject to review after completion of
studies (para. 3.19) and for the latter after review of MPW's proposals
(paras. 3.17 and 3.18). The estimated cost of light vehicles is based on
current prices for imported vehicles.
3.22     Cost of consultants' services are based on average man-month costs
for foreign consultants (comprising the individual's rate, international
travel and local allowances) consistent with currently applied rates in
Algeria for similar short-term services. The local professional man-month
cost was similarly estimated on the basis of going rates depending on qual-
ifications.  Included in these costs are the administrative and support
overheads and an allowance for items such as printing and laboratory
testing.
3.23     Physical contingencies for pavement strengthening works and con-
sultants' services are estimated at about 152. No physical contingencies
are provided for (i) road maintenance works, for which programs of eligible
works would be agreed annually; and inspection equipment, teaching mater-
ials and computers since these sums are provisional.   Contingency allow-
ances for price escalation, are in accordance with Bank guideline as shown
in the cost table.
3.24     Estimates of the foreign exchange cost component are based on an
analysis of unit prices for both pavement strengthening and maintenance
operations. It was assumed that one-third of the strengthening works would
be awarded to foreign contractors and that eligible road maintenance work
would be performed entirely by local contractors. Taxes and duties amount
to about 20% of total contract cost for foreign contractors or private
Algerian firms and about 15% for state owned local contractors. Algeria is
presently a net importer of construction equipment, spare parts and
asphalt.  Although self-sufficient in crude oil, fuel, and other locally
manufactured or processed materials, all have significant foreign exchange
components. The foreign exchange components of pavement strengthening con-
tracts are estimated at about 45%, those of periodic maintenance (mostly
surface dressing) at about 501 while that for routine maintenance opera-
tions varies between 301 and 451 (average 35X). Technical assistance ser-
vices and contracts for studies are estimated to have foreign exchange
components of between 20% and 801 depending on the expected foreign input.
Vehicle inspection equipment and vehicles would have a foreign exchange
component of 85X allowing for local charges and taxes.



- 28 -
Table 2.l: Proieut Cost Esti1ates
(March 1987 Prices)
Di nrs imillian)             USt ImillienI             FEC        Bank Loan
Loc1 lEsre1in   Total    LcA1   FOrigan    ntal    I Total    USt million
paymunt strengthening
(1)    First Tranche (1987-88)
RN-3  (49 km)                 31.0      25.4      56.4      6.6       5.4     12.0        45           5.4
RN-4  (54 km)                 37.6      30.6      68.2      8.0       6.5      14.5       45           6.S
RN-S  (50 km)                 32.4      26.3      58.7      6.9       S.6      12.5       45           5.6
(1i)   Second Tranche (1988-89)         170.4    139.6    310.0       36.3     29.7      66.0       4S          29.7
(iii)  Engineering Design
Control & Training (URC)          12.2      4.7      16.9       2.6      1.0       3.6       28           3.6
(iv)   Construction Supervision
(OIBs & LTPs)                   7A.9    -...J..    13.5                           4.0        s           1.0
Strengthening Sub-total          301.5    227.S    529.0      64.2      48.4    112.6                    S1.8
Road Maintenance (Pilot WIlavas)
(i)    1987 Program
-- Periodic  1aintenance          56.9     56.9    113.8      12.1      12.1     24.2        SO          12.1
-- Routine Maintenance           91.2      48.9    140.1      19.4      10.4      29.8       35           0.0
(.i)   1988 Program
-- Periodic Maintenance           56.9     56.9    113.8      12.1      12.1      24.2       SO          12.1
-- Routine Maintenance           91.2      48.9    140.1      19.4      10.4     29.8        35           6.6
(i.i)  Planning. Control and
Training (OPGER)                  15.0      6.6      21.6       3.2      1.4       4.6       30           4.6
(iv)   Materials Research Prcgram        _.4       -2-      -.A                AA S ...0             SO           "AQ
Maintenance Sub-total            313.5    220.5    534.0      66.7      46.9    113.6                    45.4
NOT Assistance A Studies
*1)    Multiiods Transport Study          7.1      9.S      16.6       1.S      2.0       3.5       60           2.0
- road transport diagnosis
- road user charges
- road safety
(ii)   Railroad Track Rehabilitation
Detailed Engineering               4.6      7.2      11.8       1.0      1.5       2.5       60           2.5
(iii)  Algerian Port Capacity Study       2.4       0.5      2.9       0.S      0.1       0.6       20           0.6
(iv)   Algiers Port Container
Facility - Detailed Eng.           1.4      2.4       3.8      0.3       O.S       0.8       60           0.8
(v)    Shipping Model Study               -         0.5      0.5       -        0.1       0.1       80           0.1
(vi)   Training Programs                  La      Ili       ILI4       QZ       LA        3i        80           ILI
Assistance & Studies Sub-total  18.6       33.4      52.0      4.0       7.0      11.0                    9.5
Egut.innt. Vehicles and Goods
(0)    Vehicle Inspection (Safety)
Equipment                         1.0      3.7       4.7      0.2       0.8       1.0       85           0.8
(ii)   Training Materials (including
desk top coeuters)                 0.9      8.5       9.4      0.2       1.8       2.0       85           1.8
(iii)  Liaison Vehicles                   Li       9.2       LA        Li.      Q.        Li.       85 s         L
Sub-total                          2.4     13.1      15.5      0.5       2.8       3.3                    2.8
Total ease Cost                         636.0    494.5   1130.5    135.4    lOS.1    240.5                      99.S
Physical Contingencies                   47.0     40.0      87.0      10.0      8.S      18.S                     8.5
Price Contingencies "                   24        ALA . U 131.1       16.1    l..I       2a.0                    12.C
TOTAL COST                              758.5    590.5   1349.0    161.5    125.5    287.0                      120.0
1/  Based on the following annual inflation rates (in percentage terms):
In!    MfA    -    135
Foreign costs           3.0        1.0      1.0       1.0
Local costs             8.0        8.0      8.0       8.0



- 29 -
D. Financing
3.25     The proposed Bank loan of US$120.0 million would finance about 96%
of the project's estimated foreign exchange component of US$125.5 million
(DA 590.5 million), or about 42% of total project costs (US$287 million or
DA 1,349 million). US$161.5 million would be financed by the Government,
including the foreign exchange component of maintenance work not eligible
for financing under the project (para. 3.06).  The loan would be made to
the Government of Algeria, with MPW and MOT responsible for project execu-
tion.
3.26     Retroactive financing of eligible costs incurred after January 1,
1987, for a total amount not exceeding US$4.0 million is recommended, in
order to reimburse the Bank's share of advanced payments to contractors and
payments for CTTP's services.  Early contracting of the first tranche of
road strengthening and road maintenance contracts is scheduled so that work
can start around mid-1987.
E. Implementation
3.27     Execution of  the proposed  project's pavement strengthening and
road maintenance components as well as related technical assistance would
be the responsibility of MPW.  MOT would be responsible for contracting and
managing consultants for studies in the transport sector and for procuring
vehicle inspection equipment. MOT and SNTF would be responsible for engag-
ing railway engineering cov.sultants while MPW's maritime infrastructure
directorate would engage design engineering services for the Algiers con-
tainer  terminal.   The  project  would  be  carried  out  over  the  period
1987-1989 in accordance with the implementation schedule (Table 1) and the
Project Action Plan (Annex 1) which, in particular, provides for the pre-
sentation to the Bank of annual road investment programs and for appro-
priate adjustments in the road maintenance budgets.  The Project Action
Plan was reviewed and confirmed during negotiations. The first tranche of
road resurfacing works would be contracted by September 1987 with the
second tranche scheduled for September 1988.  Contract durations of 12-15
months are foreseen, depending on the size of the contracts.  Supervision
of the works would be conducted by suitably qualified DIB engineers and
staff from MPW's regional laboratories, under overall supervision of the
CTTP.  Specialists to assist the CTTP would be mobilized during the third
quarter of 1987. Technical assistance for studies and detailed engineering
would start in late 1987 and early 1988 in accordance with the Project
Action Plan.  Vehicles  needed  for detailed engineering and maintenance
field activities, as well as construction supervision, would be procured
early under the project. Although the project is designed to be imple-
mented in less than three years, the possibility of slippage due to delays
in procurement and unforeseen problems in construction may extend the
implementation period to three or three and a half years.  Maintenance
contracts, however, which cannot be carried over into the next year since
they would then fall under the next annual budget, would be completed by
early 1989. The activities most susceptible to delay would be those re-
lated to training and human resource development.   These activities are



- 30 -
estimated to be completed at the latest by the end of 1990.  Hence the
implementation of the whole project is estimated to take four years and to
be completed by December 31, 1990.
F. Procurement
3.28     Pavement strengthening contracts totalling about  US$105 million
would be awarded to qualified contractors, in two annual programs, each
comprised of several road sections, after ICB in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines.  Road sections would be divided into bidding lots of about
US$8 million to US$15 million with qualified firms able to bid on several
lots. Bidders would have to meet the Algerian requirements on qualifica-
tions, so as to be registered with the Ministry of Housing and Construc-
tion, in order to sign contracts. Post-qualification of unregistered bid-
ders would be provided for in the bid documents. Bid documents and model
contracts for the first group of sub-projects were reviewed during negotia-
tions and required revisions are being made. Bid evaluation for contracts
of more than US$6.0 million would be subject to Bank review prior to the
award being announced.
3.29     Contracts for road maintenance works would be relatively smaller
and widely scattered and as such would not be suitable for ICB.  Moreover
Algerian contractors are capable of effectively executing these kind of
works.   These  contracts  would be advertised and awarded by  the pilot
Wilaya's DIBs under local competitive bidding procedures, acceptable to the
Bank.  Local competitive bidding procedures are generally consistent with
the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the works.  There
were, however, a few procedures which were inconsistent with Bank procure-
ment guidelines and others which required clarification. These procedures
and proposals to improve them have been discussed during negotiations, and
agreement was reached regarding the needed changes to make the current pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank. Each participating DIB would furnish its
proposed program of competitive bidding. together with its annual work
program to the SDM who, with the assistance of the DPGER, would review it
for conformance with the agreed criteria of eligibility for financing under
the loan (para. 3.06). Bid documents and evaluation would be subject to
ex-post review by the Bank.
3.30     Algerian bid regulations specify the composition of bid evaluation
committees (para. 2.22).  SDM and CTTP would be responsible for (i) moni-
toring the bidding procedures and the awards of contracts by the DIBs, and
(ii) forwarding to the Bank, together with copies of the maintenance
contracts, a copy of the minutes of the bid evaluation proceedings in ac-
cordance with the procedures set forth in para. 3 of Appendix 1 of the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans.
3.31     Vehicle inspection equipment  (up to US$ 1.0 million equivalent)
would be procured through Limited International Bidding from firms special-
izing in such equipment, with at least four suppliers from three different
countries invited to bid. Due to the small numbers involved and the need
for early delivery, light vehicles (about US$ 300,000) would be procured
either through the state enterprise responsible for large scale importation



- 31 -
of vehicles or through international  shopping.   Similarly,  desk-top com-
puters (up to about US$1.4 million) would be procured either through the
responsible state enterprise or through international shopping.   In both
cases the state enterprics go out to international bidding, which is ac-
ceptable to the Bank, thereby achieving economies due to the scale of their
purchases and obtaining a degree of standardization within Algeria so that
spare parts and services can be arranged. Teaching materials and textbooks
(up to US$ 600,000) would also be procured by international shopping. Con-
sultants services would be provided by qualified and experienced consul-
tants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Bank financing for
consultants services would be for 1001 of total costs.   Table 3.2 below
gives a summary of the type of procurement which would apply to goods,
works and services included under the project.
Table 3.2: Procurement Method
Not
Project Element            ICB      LCB      Other      APRlicable       Total
-    .-   - US   million)- 
Pavement Strengthening   133.9       -         -             -           133.9
(60.2)   (-)       (-)           (-)           (60.2)
Road Maintenance
-periodic                         53.6                                 53.6
(   )   (26.8)    (   )     (   )        (26.8)
-routine                          21.4                   44.6-1        66.0
(7.5)                 ( - )          (7.5)
Equipment, Vehicles                           3.7v                         3.7
and Goods                (   )    (   )    (3.1)         (-)            (3.1)
Consulting Services and                      26.5           3.3           29.8
Overseas training        (  )    (   2   (22.4)                        (22.4)
133.9     75.0     30.2          47.9         (287.0)
(60.2)   (34.3)   (25.5)         ( - )       (120.0)
1/ Costs include estimated contingencies.
2/ Routine maintenance operations not contracted through competitive bidding.
3/ LIB and International Shopping.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the pro-
posed loan.



- 32 -
G. Disbursements
3.32     Disbursements will be made to cover:
(a) 45% of total expenditures for pavement strengthening contracts
and for eligible road maintenance contracts;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicle inspection equipment
vehicles, and teaching materials; and
(c) 100% of total expenditures for consultants services and
training visits.
With the exception of civil work contracts (including maintenance)
valued at the equivalent of US$500,000 or less and contracts for vehicles,
equipment or goods valued at the equivalent of US$100,000 or less, all with-
drawal applications will be fully documented. Disbursements against civil
works contracts valued at $500,000 or less or contracts for goods or equip-
ment valued at $100,000 or less, would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures (SOE).  Documentation to support expenditures financed under
S0E would be maintained in the pilot Wilayss or at the responsible Ministry
and made available for review by Bank representatives upon request in ad-
dition to being audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.37).
During loan negotiations confirmation was obtained of the foregoing arrange-
ments.
3.33     To maintain an adequate flow of funds available to finance pavement
strengthening and road maintenance contracts with a minimum of administra-
tive delay, the Borrower will establish a Special Account (revolving fund)
at the Central Bank sufficient to cover about four months expenditures of
these project components (i.e. about US$15 million). Records of the Special
Account transactions would be sent to the Bank for replenishment of the
account and would be subject to annual audit (para. 3.37). During negotia-
tions confirmation was obtained of the foregoing arrangements.
3.34     Based on the loan becoming effective by October 1987, a schedule of
estimated disbursements has been prepared and is shown in Table 2.  For
highway projects in EMENA Region, most of which had complex new construction
components, the disbursement profile averages about eight to ten years with
93S disbursement at the end of eight years. The Third Highway Project in
Algeria (Loan 1683-AL) which comprised rehabilitation and maintenance as
well as new construction, was finally disbursed on June 30, 1986 in less
than seven years.  The proposed project is composed only of two-year pro-
grams of rehabilitation and maintenance works. It includes no new construc-
tion, and is conservatively estimated to be completed in four years
(para 3.27). Allowing for delays in disbursement of one year which are com-
mon in Algeria, the loan should be fully disbursed in five years, by Decem-
ber 31, 1991. The schedule was discussed and confirmed during loan nego-
tiations.



- 33 -
H. Accounting and Audit
3.35     Financing of the proposed project will be provided partly by the
national recurrent and capital budgets, partly by the participating Wilayas
recurrent budgets, which will include ab initio all funds required for the
execution of the proposed project regardless of Bank or other external
assistance. Timely provision of adequate budget allocations will be moni-
tored by the Bank through a reporting system explained below.
3.36     The  identification  - and  ultimately  audit -  of  project-related
expenditure is feasible without undue difficulty.  Each Wilaya or Ministry
will keep accounts showing amounts spent per project item, supported by ade-
quate documentation. Financial reports would be prepared by the participat-
ing Wilayas with help from staff of the URC and DPGER for transmittal to the
Bank not later than 45 days after the close of each quarter.  Agreement on
this was reached during negotiations.
3.37     Audit of  the financial  reports  for the fourth quarter of each
fiscal year was discussed with tne "Inspection G6n6rale des Finances"
(Government Audit) which has the staff, independence, and competence to
carry out such task.  During negotiations agreement was obtained from the
Ministry of Finance that the annual audit of the expenditures summarized in
the above financial reports and of the Special Account would be included in
the  "Inspection  GWnerale  des  Finances"'  yearly  program  and  that  the
auditor's report and opinion would be sent to the Bank not later than nine
months after the close of the fiscal year.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01     The proposed road rehabilitation (pavement strengthening) program
will enable the fullest use to be made of the existing primary road net-
work. Because of its focus on key primary routes linking important urban
centers, industries and major agricultural areas, the program will provide
substantial benefits to a wide variety of road users.  Similarly, through
implementation of the improved road maintenance programs, the country will
eventually benefit from increased efficiency and better management in road
maintenance operations. The main financial benefits of both the road reha-
bilitation and maintenance programs will be in reduced transport costs which
result from improved driving surfaces. Additional benefits are savings from
avoiding higher maintenance costs which would ultimately be required to keep
roads in passable condition and prevent even greater increases in transport
costs.   In addition,  the proposed technical assistance will  considerably
strengthen MPW's capability for the planning and management of the road net-
work and support institutional improvements which the Government is under-
taking.  Similarly,  the provision of technical assistance and training to
the Ministry of Transport, particularly the preparation of the comprehensive
transport study for Algeria which includes road user charges sub-study and
diagnostic sub-studies of the road transport industry and road safety, will
help to improve overall planning and management in the transport sector and
eventually to increase general operational efficiency in the sector.



- 34 -
B Road Rehabilitation Program
4.02     The  proposed  project  would  finance  some  400  km  of  pavement
strengthening during the period 1987-89.  A first-year tranche of the pro-
gram has been prepared covering about 150 km of primary roads including the
RN3 between Ain Touta and Biskra (49 km), the RN4 between Mouzaia, Khemis
Miliana and Rouina (54 km), and the RN5 between M'Chedallah and Borj Bou
Arreridj (50 km).  Traffic on these roads in 1985 ranged from just over
3,000 vpd on the RN3 to 5,500 vpd on the RN5 and 8,500 vpd on the RN4.
Heavy vehicles accounted for about 252 of total traffic.  In view of the
uncertainty over the development of the economy in the next few years, traf-
fic ia assumed to remain constant through 1990 followed by a 4% per year
increase thereafter.  However, the viability of the rehabilitation program
is not sensitive to traffic growth rates and all sections are justified on
the basis of existing traffic.
4.03     Pavement design and the economic analysis cover a ten-year period.
User benefits from rehabilitation derive from the difference in vehicle
operating costs on (a) a poor road surface throughout the ten-year evalua-
tion period and (b) an initially excellent surface progressively deterior-
ating to a poor surface. The pattern of deterioration assumes that half of
the total deterioration would take place in the last two years of the pave-
ment life. Savings of the additional maintenance which would be needed if
the road were not rehabilitated are assumed to be equivalent to the cost of
the pavement overlay and the distribution of the additional maintenance
cost, over time, would build-up as a function of deterioration. Using these
assumptions1', the ERs for the sections included in the first tranche
range frpm 14% to 352 with overall average of about 232. Details of the
economic evaluation are given in Annex 4.
C. Road Maintenance Program
4.04     The economic evaluation of the improved maintenance programs to be
implemented in the seven pilot wilayas has been undertaken considering the
entire Wilaya road network, in order to demonstrate the high incremental
return on these programs. No attempt has been made at this stage to optim-
ize the maintenance programs which are derived from stanidard criteria, based
on traffic and surface condition.  The proposed project includes technical
assistance to CTTP's DPGER which would have optimization of road maintenance
as an objective. This unit was established prior to negotiations and
1/   The deterioration assumptions are simpler than those of the HDM model
for which data are lacking, but the vehicle operating costs were
derived using the HDM sub-program.



- 35 -
will immediately begin the collection of data required for the introduction
of a  simple  pavement management  system.   Although  the  system  is  not
expected to be fully operational until late 1987, priorities for the 1987
program of surface dressing will be established using preliminary data.
4.05     The overall impact of an improved road maintenance program has
been assessed by comparing the condition and associated costs on the road
network under an improved program with the condition under a continuation
of the present maintenance levels.   Improved levels of road maintenance
will follow from a combination of increased budget allocations for mainte-
nance, more productive use of these allocations under an improved system of
contract maintenance (increased efficiency and better quality) and improved
planning and control of road maintenance operations. The analysis has been
carried out for two representative Wilayas (Chlef and Bouira) over a five-
year period (1987-91).  The incremental rate of return has been estimated
for several improved levels of maintenance which involve increasing the
maintenance effort progressively from 55% of the optimum level through 702
of the optimum, 852 of the optimum, up to the optimum level.  For these
scenarios it is assumed that average pavement useful life-' is respec-
tively seven years, eight years and nine years with the optimum program
providing a pavement life of ten years. The evolution of the road network
in the pilot wilayas has been estimated on this basis and total vehicle
operating costs and maintenance costs calculated for each scenario.  The
results of this analysis show high incremental ERs which are in the range
of 1802 to over 300% when the maintenance effort is increased from 551 to
70% of the optimum, thereby increasing the average pavement life from seven
years to eight years.  For an increase in maintenance effort from 701 to
851 of the optimum, and a corresponding increase in pavement life from
eight to nine years, the incremental ER is between 1001 and 2001. For an
increase in maintenance effort from 85S to 100% of the optilmum and an
increase in pavement life from nine to ten years, the incremental ER is
between 501 and 100l. For most Wilayas, it is considered that the existing
maintenance effort is around 70% of the optimum at the present time. At
this level, therefore, a 20% increase in the road maintenance effort pro-
duces typical incremental ERs of about 150%. Details of the economic eval-
uation of the road maintenance program are given in Annex 4.
1/ Useful life is defined as the period between when successive rehabilita-
tion and/or strengthening operations are needed.



- 36 -
D. Prolect Risk
4.06     There are no particular economic risks involved with the project
because of the high ERs expected from both the road rehabilitation and road
maintenance programs. There are, however, two kinds of risk in connection
with the project.  First:  there is a Considerable risk that some of the
desired results from introducing competitive bidding for maintenance con-
tracts, and testing different type contract packages, may not be immedi-
ately successful. Elimination of subsidization of certain maintenance unit
prices may increase these prices more than improved efficiency can reduce
them. Also the response of road contractors who presently do not engage in
maintenance, may be tentative and limited, until they see a longer-term
market for this work.  Two years is a short time for introducing changes
and the results achieved in this period may be partial, but should provide
a sound basis  for further  constructive improvement.   In order for the
effectiveness of road maintenance operations in the pilot Wilayas to be
increased as much as possible, it is important that all measures foreseen
in the Project Action Plan be taken in a timely manner.  Of particular
importance is the early recruitment of assistance to the CTTP.  In view of
the high priority given by the Government to the road rehabilitation and
maintenance program, the institutional objective of developing CTTP's capa-
city to fulfill its role in regards technical quality control of roadwork
and road maintenance should be fully attainable. Once fully staffed and
functioning, the CTTP's planning and monitoring units would serve to assure
continuing, long-term effort to fully attain project goals. Second: there
is a small element of risk that MPW may not receive sufficient supplemen-
tary allocations from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to enable it to in-
crease road maintenance budgets in the pilot Wilayas as foreseen
(para. 2.35). However, the risk of budgetary shortages is considered mini-
mal since funds for the road strengthening program have already been
included in the 1987 budget while the required increase in maintenance
budgets for the pilot maintenance program are relatively insignificant.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During loan negotiations, confirmation was obtained from the Gov-
ernment regarding the following matters which appear as covenants in the
Loan Agreement:
(a) that the agreed criteria for approval of roads to be included
in the second tranche of pavement strengthening could only be
altered by mutual agreement between the Government ard the
Bank (para. 3.05);
(b) that it would carry out the maintenance operations in the
pilot Wilayas in accordance with agreed annual programs (i)
setting forth physical targets and budgetary appropriations;
and (ii) identifying maintenance work which would be con-
tracted by competitive bidding (para. 3.08);



- 37 -
(c) that the comprehensive multi-mode transport studies for
Algeria would be completed by June 30, 1989; and that after
taking into account the Bank's comments regarding the recom-
mendations of the studies, the Government would formulate
action plans and take all measures necessary to implement
them (para. 3.13);
(d) that the preparation of detailed engineering and bid docu-
ments for railway main-line rehabilitation would be completed
no later than April 30, 1988 (para. 3.14);
(e) that the preparation of detailed engineering and bid docu-
ments for the container terminal in the port of Algiers and
the study for port equipmeut modernization would be completed
no later than March 31, 1988 and that after taking into
account the Bank's comments on the study's recommendations,
the Government would formulate an action plan and take all
measures necessary to implement it (para. 3.15);
(f) that a list of, and schedule for, purchasing of (i) desk-top
computers and (ii) texts and teaching materials would be pre-
sented to the Bank for review and comment not later than
October 31, 1987 (paras. 3.17 and 3.18);
(g) that detailed studies, evaluating vehicle inspection and road
safety equipment needs would be presented to the Bank for
review and comment by June 30, 1988 (para. 3.19);
(h) that the project would be carried out in accordance with the
the Project Action Plan, which, in particular, provides for
presentation of the annual road investment programs and for
appropriate  adjustments  in  the  road  maintenance  budget
(para. 3.27);
(i) that documentation to support expenditures financed under SOE
would be maintained in the pilot Wilayas or at the respons-
ible Ministry and made available for review by Bank represen-
tatives upon request, in addition to being audited by audi-
tors acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.32);
(j) that records of the Special Account transactions would be
sent to the Bank for replenishment of the account and would
be subject to annual audit (para. 3.33);
(k) that, in regards all project accounts, the auditor's report
and opinion would be sent to the Bank not later than nine
months after the close of the fiscal year (para. 3.36).



- 38 -
5.02     During  loan  negotiations,  confirmation  was  obtained  from  the
Government regarding the following points, which became the subject of
supplemental letters:
(a) the changes in Algerian bid procedures needed to make these
acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.28 and 3.29); and;
(b) the content of the Project Action Plan (Annex 1).
5.03     During loan negotiations,  agreement was  also  reached with  the
Government on the following points:
(a) that the criteria for approval of the roads to be included in
the second tranche are: (i) quality of preparation and analy-
sis acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) ER of the investment at
least equal to 12% (para 3.05); and
(b) the criteria for eligibility for financing of road mainte-
nance programs under the loan are: (i) that all periodic
maintenance operations in the Wilaya are included; (ii) that
the proposed bidding lots are suitable for efficient execu-
tion; and (iii) that due consideration has been given to
taking advantage of installed capacity (para. 3.06).
5.04     With the understandings indicated above, in paras. 5.01, 5.02 and
5.03, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$120 million to
the Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria for a
period of 15 years including a three-year grace period.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Action Plan
I. Introduction
1.       This annex describes the measures necessary to ensure smooth imple-
mentation of the proposed project.  It includes (i) general procedures and
criteria for preparation of sub-projects of the pavement strengthening com-
ponent, (ii) details of the proposed first-year road maintenance program in
the seven pilot Wilayas (Tables 1 through 4), and (iii) general guidelines
for the improvement of road maintenance management under the project. The
project action plan is summarized in tabular format at the end of this annex
(Table 5).
II. Pavement Strengthening Program
2.       The  Technical  Quality Control Organization  (CTTP)  would become
responsible for preparing the pavement strengthening programs on a regular
basis using updated road inventory and traffic data for some 5,000 km of
primary routes, generally those with traffic volumes approaching or exceed-
ing 3,000 vpd. Training would be provided under the project by consultants
to the URC-pavement strengthening unit (para.  2.14).   The URC would be
responsible for evaluating pavement strengthening needs, establishing prior-
ities and preparing annual programs in line with budgetary allocations. The
unit would organize field surveys in collaboration with regional DIB person-
nel, prepare designs and bidding documents and assist the DIBs and LTPs with
supervision of construction.   Once CTTP has developed standard procedures
for these purposes it would issue guidelines to the DIBs, the regional
engineering enterprises aad the LTPs and provide training in their applica-
tion. CTTP would be responsible for reviewing the engineering and control
work performed in the regions and would monitor implementation of the pro-
grams. A total of about 40 man-months of consulting services are provided
under the project for the purposes of establishing the URC. Outline terms
of reference are available in the project file.  The unit would work in
liaison with the new DPGER which will be responsible for road maintenance
planning (para. 7).
3.       The procedures and criteria used in the preparation of sub-projects
for inclusion in the proposed project are described in Annexes 3 (Pavement
Strengthening Design)  and 4  (Economic Evaluation).   For  the  subsequent



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
tranche of the Bank-financed program, MPW would forward the technical
studies and economic evaluations to the Bank for review.  The criteria for
accepting roads for financing under the loan would be that(a) the quality of
preparation and analysis must be acceptable to the Bank; and (b) the ER of
the investment is at least equal to 121.
III. Road Maintenance Pilot Program
4.       Seven Wilayas are included in the pilot road maintenance program
under  the proposed  project:   Bouira,  Medea  and  Chlef  (Center  Region),
Tleucen and Mascara (Western Region), Batna (Eastern Region) and Ouargla
(Southern Region). These Wilayas account for just over 20% of the primary
and secondary road network (Table 1) and about 252 of total road maintenance
expenditures .
5.       Detailed road maintanance programs have been prepared for each of
the pilot Wilayas for 1987. The estimated quantities for each maintenance
activity on each itinerary in the road network were derived using standard
intervention criteria based on traffic and road surface condition. Details
for each itinerary of the road network (traffic and surface condition), road
maintenance activities and expenditures in 1986, the proposed programs and
budget allocations for 1987 are all available in the Project File. Table 2
summarizes the surface condition of the network in the seven Wilayas and the
volume of traffic on each of the major categories of road. Examples of the
detailed inventories are given in Annex 4, Tables 8 and 9, for the Wilayas
of Bouira and Chlef.
6.       A summary of the pavement maintenance quantities and corresponding
budget estimates for 1987 for the group of seven Wilayas is given in Table
3. Details of the periodic maintenance program in 1987 in each of the pilot
Wilayas is shown in Table 4. The periodic maintenance program proposed for
1987 includes 691 km of single surface treatment, 310 km of double surface
treatment and 57 km of asphalt concrete overlay, or a total of 1,058 km
which is about 12% of the total length of paved roads in the seven pilot
Wilayas. This appears to be a satisfactory level considering that there is
a backlog in periodic maintenance works. Routine maintenance works for 1987
(sealing and pothole patching) amount to just over one million square
meters. Unit prices estimated by the Wilayas vary quite widely. The cost
of the proposed road maintenance program is estimated to average at about
DA27,000 per km or US$5,800 per km. The data base will be further developed
under the project by introducing a simple road maintenance management system
in accordance with the principles defined below.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
IV. Road Maintenance Management
Oblectives
7.       MPW has decided to establish a road maintenance planning and man-
agement department (DPGER) within CTTP (para. 2.14). A total of about 40
man-months of consulting services are provided under the Project for the
purposes of assistance in establishing the DPGER.  Detailed terms of refer-
ence are available in the project file. DPGER's objective is to establish a
simple management system which will allow a rational planning of maintenance
operations taking into account the availability of funds and the character-
istics of the road network in terms of pavement condition and traffic.  The
core of the system would be an updated road data base which combines road
inventory and traffic data.  By adding data on vehicle operating costs and
road maintenance unit prices, and using appropriate micro-computer technol-
ogy the system can develop programs of road maintenance according to sound
economic criteria.  Together with the introduction of competitive bidding
for road maintenance work, this would ensure the effective utilization of
funds on pavement maintenance, which in itself accounts for more than 502 of
total maintenance expenditures.
8.       The data would initially be processed centrally and distributed to
the DIBs.   Later  the processing  function  could  be  introduced  in  each
Wilaya. The proposed system would therefore need to be a relatively simple
one, suitable for local level maintenance management. Initially the intro-
duction of the system would be limited to the seven pilot Wilayas chosen as
being representative of the different conditions which can be found in
Algeria while also having qualified staff and the necessary interest to
participate meaningfully in the proposed program.
Road Data Base
9.       The data base would comprise several files.  Existing  inventory
data, where available, would be reviewed, updated and incorporated in the
expanded road data base. Similarly, the traffic survey system established
by LNTP during 1985 will also form part of the basic system. Visual data
would be collected or updated annually at the regional level and supple-
mented by roughness and deflection measurements conducted by centrally based
teams. A single system would be developed to cover inventory data needs for
the preparation of pavement strengthening programs and for road mainte-
nance. The data base would include for each link:
(a) Road surface and pavement condition: roughness, depressions,
texture, potholes, rut depth, patched area, edge damage, pave-
ment structure;
(b) Traffic: census, date, ADT, vehicle classification;



- 42 -
ANEX 1
Page 4 of 5
(c)  Inventory update:  from completed works plans, age of pave-
ment, last maintenance operations with dates;
(d) Work activities: unit costs and quantities per task;
(e) Committed Programs: planned dates, estimated costs, technical
characteristics of improvements.
Planning Maintenance Programs
10.      In order to select policies and establish priorities  for mainte-
nance works, simple programs will be developed for use on micro-computers.
Given the condition and traffic on each link, externally-set intervention
criteria would determine the maintenance activities required for each main-
tenance policy. The program would compute benefits and rates of return by
comparing vehicle operating costs and road maintenance cost streams of
specified policies and the null policy over the analysis period. By analyz-
ing each link, section by section, a timetable of works would be produced
giving estimated quantities, costs and rates of return by link.  The works
ranked within the available budget allocations for a given year would con-
stitute the programmed works for that year. The model would use the rela-
tionships between vehicle operating costs and road roughness from the Road
Deterioration and Maintenance Sub-model of the HDM.   These  relationships
have already been used in the Vehicle Operating Cost Study prepared for MPW
by consultants in 1985. To the extent possible, an attempt would be made to
establish priorities for the 1987 program in the pilot Wilayas using data
collected during project appraisal.  However,  the system would be  fully
operational in time for the preparation of the 1988 program.
11.      Once the program has been established in the pilot Wilayas, the
system shoula later be expanded to the other Wilayas.  In addition, further
phases could possibly include iterative analyses whereby the costs and bene-
fits of several alternative maintenance strategies could be computed for
each link and for each year in order to optimize the local and national
maintenance programs within the allocated budgets.
Implementation and Monitoring
12.      Standard procedures and documents would be developed for competi-
tive contracting of the road maintenance programs or portions thereof.
These would include: (i) standard contract documents including technical
and/or procedu'al  specifications by type of works; and (ii) alternative
procedures for use in the event of inadequate response by contractors or for
meeting emergency or unforeseen needs. Different types of contract packages
and geographical groupings would be tested to determine those most suitable
and cost-effective. Procedures would also be developed for sampling, test-
ing and inspection of the contracted works. Daily reporting would be intro-
duced to permit, inter alia, actual unit costs to be determined and measures
would be sought to encourage increased productivity.



- 43 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
13.      A monitoring system would be established within the DPGER to follow
progress on maintenance quantities, costs, and network condition and to dis-
seminate productivity and cost information among the DIBs. This information
would be used to improve the planning process and to ensure that budgetary
allocations are adjusted to meet the needs of maintaining the road network.
The DPGER would work in close collaboration with the URC, responsible for
the preparation of pavement strengthening programs (para. 2) so that these
would be taken into consideration during the maintenance planning process.
Other Analyses
14.      Particular attention would be given to procedures which might be
adopted for efficient execution of those routine maintenance tasks which are
difficult to program in advance.   The main consideration in this respect
would be to improve the flexibility of the maintenance system in order to
meet requirements of this type.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pilot Wilavas
Paved Road Network Data - 1986
Surface          Length                                ADT      2 Total
Condition          (km)         (10 veh. km/year)    (vpd)         Lenth
Very Good            330.4             723.8           6,000         3.7
Good              4,410.0            2,137.7           1,330       48.7
Fair               2,540.7             896.2             965        27.9
Bad                1,330.1             315.4            650         14.7
Very Bad             453.2              n.a.            n.a.         5.0
TOTAL          99064.4           4,073.1           1,230       100.0
Source: MPW, LNTP.



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
ALG6RI,
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORt
FIFTH HIGH MAY PROJECT
Pilot nMilaas
Surface Conditign - 196
Very                                         Very
Andffi     lad         EaIr         aOTAL
Batna              76.5        705.7       372.4      50.3      32.0    1,236.9
Bou1ra             99.0        493.5       269.5     81.0       94.S    1,037.5
Chief              88.2        324.5       268.8     120.0      93.0       894.5
Wsscara             --         922.5       100.3      109.3     --       1,132.1
"de&               46.8        865.7       242.7      144.0    233.7    1,532.9
TlMcen             19.9        467.6       963.5     343.0      --       1,794.0
Ouargla             --         f2AJL               3            -4a _        6
TOTAL                330.4      4,410.0    2,540.7   1,330.1    453.2    9,064.4
Bata&             163.1      334.5       166.2      12.0        n.a.     675.8
Boura             142.9      343.2       104.4     32.7        n.a.      623.2
Chief             276.5      103.4       123.3      21.3       n.a.      524.5
nascr              ---       601.2        95.6      22.7       n.a.      719.5
Pedk              102.5      18S.3       134.2      22.1       n.a.      444.1
Tle n              38.8      346.3       224.8      37.9       n.a.      647.8
Ouargla            _         2L.A         47.7    Ifif7        n.a.       3a.2
TOTAL                723.8   2,137.7        896.2    315.4        n.a.   4,073.1
Source: HPW, LNTP



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pilot Road Maintenance Prograr
A. PavKent Maintenanea eroarami: 19a7
2            Unit        2
AAreaImL)           Erices nDAI)
SURFACE DRESSING (periodic)
Single Treatuiot
Batna                                      1,089,200                    15.0
Bouira                                       361,500                    10.5
Chief                                        568,650                    11.5
Mascara                                    1,201,900                    12.0
Medea                                        864. OAfa 8.0
4,085,250
Road Length (km)                                 691
Dauble TreatINnt
Bouira                                       3S7,370                   23.0
Madea                                         30,000                   24.0
n ecen                                     1,136,000                   22.0
Ouargla                                      42.ODJ D                  32.0
1,943,370
Road length (kn)                                 310
Asphalt Concrete
Bouira                                       102,000                   36.0
Ouargla                                      29B0J8                    40.0
382,000
Road Length (kn)                                  57
Total Road Length Periodic Maintenance (kn)       1.058
f&TtICUZ (routine)
SealPNnt                             Potholes
Arga (m I    Unit  Prices          ArA lm I    Unit PrlUL
Batna                       1,000           90                71,125          1SO
Bouira                    172,100           35                  --
Chlet                        --                               79,310           47
Mascara                   611,000           13                  --
Hedea                      16,470           29                34,420           SS
Tlemcen                    13,838           SO                57,OO0           50
Ouaigla                    3 0              30                -
84,408                             241,15s
1/ As estimated by DIG services.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pilot Road Maintenance Program
B. Expected Maintenance Costs: 1987
('000 DA)
Average
Total           Unit Costs
Cost             (DA/km)
Surface Dressig
Single Treatment                        48,008
Double Treatment                        47,372
Asphalt Concrete                        14,872
110,252             12,163
Patching                                   35,265               3,890
Other Works -                             100,329              11,068
Total                                  245,846              27,121
Equivalent US dollar cost                 54 million            5,845
11 Including ditch cleaning, shoulder maintenance, vegetation control,
structures, routine maintenance, road safety equipment, emergency works.



p~~o3
8a~~~~~~~~~Wa
ORIGIN   ENS    ~~07TY~           TYPE                                     ORIGV ITT!    TYPE
National Roads                                                                       Eat1amR.badS
Ui S1        FP  2+000    PK 11+000       6S.000    single treatment                 on  0        Pt 105.00    PKt 16.760    2S.120     double treatnt
Pt 14.000   FP  25*000      77.030            *                                    Rt 109*100    P  118.000    64. 00
KR 87         Pt S2U       FK 47.000      90,00                                      U R 25       PK   0000    Pt  5.00    2.09
PK 606       PK 76s500     10,0I                                       a 2         ft 370    PK  9+750    73,*0 
MRln          P K. 16000    PK 3100       NAL                                        m            IP20  R .O222S    M        AL5 S.0
Sub-total                  66.6 km           442,00                                   Sub-total                33.7S km          216,370
Regional                                                                                       _df minm1 kd
01  6         ft 2+000    ft 5+000         18,000    single tretent                  Oil 1        ft 12.00f    ft  19.000    35.000      doubl* treatmnt
W  7          Pft 0+000    ft 6.000       20.00              Uc 20                                PI 104+000    Ft 114*000    40.0 
01 26         ft 0.000    Pt 20+000      100.030                                     c m1 40     ft  6+000    ft  16+900    6,0O
cm 26         Ft 7+.00      t W00N       157,200                                     CM 97        ft  0*000   FPt 19041    95.000        single ttetmnt
ft 40.00    fK 49+000       54,090            '                       C  99        fKt  0000    ft  6*0          0,00              '
01 3S         Pt 10.000   ft 26+000      112,000            '                        C125         Pt  01000    ft 41.        221,.00             -
01 40         Pt 6000    PKt 0000        120.000            *                        CW125A       ft  0.0    ft  20           tt,tO0             *
CM 161-A      PK  8     t a       L I*000    -AM  It                                 06127        P             5flj3        102."       aSphalt concrete
b-total                   112.2 kl           647,200                                  Sub-total                114.0 so          604.506                                   I
~~UTY ~~TMWI TY
_ ._IGI                              E10 1          TYE           a                   EI                                  {tm}        TYPE
lit omi Roads
Ni 11         ft 1t4*000  ft 10.&+"       16.000    single tmtm_nt                  nU  17        ft 4U000    ft 59.014   123.600        single truatmant
ft 225.00   ft 240+000       0.On                                                  P ft   5      ft  79.500  101 .590
n  19         ft 261+000   ft 270050      50,250            *                       1n91          Pt 21*200    ft  U400   2Mo,
ft 3009   ft 40.500    6".0                   *097                                 PK  18+i 0   PK 64t7..      In.
t 57600  Pt  62,506         2940                                   Sub-total                111.21 Is          70.600
ft   250    ft 64300        14,0t
ft 4.060   ft  76.000       52.000
OM 19A         K 960   FX h1              _JLM
Sub total                  44.ff ko          274,60
Iftm      0 on&ds                                                                                                                                                         i
Cm  2         ft  .00    Pt 4+000          6,0.0    sinsle trotmnt                  cm to         PK  24.000    Pt  23600    66,000      single treatemet             N
Cw  *         ft 79000    ft 4.0o0        so0o0o            *2 n                                  PKt  SON      fKt 15.000     5.6Q00
'4



ftin                                                                     nomUT  naUv   m~
mu
or, TITY                                                                           MZTI,y
007Gb   Fm                  ~~~~~~~~TYf                                                                      TM ~~
Uatamla
Ut I          PK 104.t      t t12S.40   119."*   s31ntT trestment                  t 2          ft 412009   PK  W Ds0u6 t6                 i t me_nt
PK 152.000  PK 17740W    178.500                                     Axe T.6      PK   00069   PK  294406    *63.06
IIRg0         PKt 29100  Pt 47+199    4.09                 *                       UR          f Pt 24140    P  2t58069   119.set
lo   5     PK 145~                     Webb                                     St 99,       K    .W      fKt  190016   65.0"
mm is        PK  20~.   PK  36.s5        1.060                                                  PKf 6470W    PK  7790W    460.69
PK  46.0006  ft 76.00      72.WO             *                                                 PIK~.  1.JJZ"  -fMm 
at         OK8*0   OK..~.   62401    to-a                                    sub-total                 9502                sIWS
Sub-total                 79.6 2            5In.SO6
cm 5          Pt 41*.2     It 404 10     $4.0W    single trea0Wnt                  03           ftM  254W    ft  4O0    MAN            muble tr6t_5nt
01 Ss         ft  +0.0W   PK 20.90W      W9.400                                                 PKf  960W00    ft 96.406    30.90W
cm is         PK  6009   OK 0506-        42.5W 4                                   0c  "        ft    00      ft  149W    9t.990
01 92         ft 0.006    PK  7.006      35.0W                                     cm 43        ft  7*506   ft  13*4006   27.606
0c19          PK 230      ft 44060    1Ws.0                *                       Cna          ft  00069   ft  OWN    45.00 _
cm1G          PK2 ft 900  PK 16.6        S6.00    dumble                           CWI*7 019    ft  7+006   PK  13.006    26.00W                                     I
0 94          fKt *00     f  4_0          0.0  _  Single_ PtK e9#ft 506    ft 2                                             10.0W
PK 1tit.E M.m  F                 1           *                        11_ fs       t PK S06    ft  24.6#4    145.0 t
Sub-total                 77.2 No           365.50                                     0n1169           too~ms   OK..JZi, ..U.                                          '
Sub-total                0. kg            442.090W
mm                           ~~~TM
M1 53         Pt 4000   fPt 1060        42_.0,   duble troont
MS 16         ft 61606   PK 63#0006   140W"   aSeslt Concrete
M 49          S...b"t.  S..       _     143.tsL-
Sue-totl                  1S.6 he           70b,0
01 73         PKt 11406   ft 16066         00              *                       cm 76        PKt  2400   Pt  22*146    9.006 
Ca1o)         ft 29+00    PK 31+066      1206              *                       01 43        PK   0+906    ft t226   115.069
PK $06    Pt 440           34*0              *                                                  OK.I.ShIM -
ft W06    fPK 7s0          76.06n            *                    Sb-total                   5.  km         441,3s                                14'
00102         Pt 400_   PK 12+406        4866                                                                                                                g
0b112         ft 1S.0b0    PK 206        36.0W             * 
C140          PK 19.00    PK 21_46       12., 6
pK 2Um*    KM 2S1                                                                                                                                     -
h*h-total                 49n.   2I4 "66" 



STAFF APFF   L ROT
FIFTH M!1UAY PREm1CT
Aton  Plan
Activt                     Recent Action                           Action to be Taken under Proiect           Resonsbhilitv/Timilna
A. PRQJECT ISPLUfATIN
Pavement Strengthening       Priority given to pavement                  Increase capacity to plan and           MHpI, CTTP
Program                    strengthening with objective of              implement a stepped-up pavement          First half of 1987
reaching 600 to 800 km/year for             strngthening program. Creation of
primary roads during 1985-89 Plan.          a permanent Pavement Strengthening Unit
within CTTP. Definition of selection
and pavement design methodologies.
Technical and economic feasibility           Preparation of subsequent tranehes:         MPW.  CTTP
studies aompleted for first
tranche:
m3 Biskra-Ain Touta (49km)                  First Tranche 11987):
04 Mouza'a-El Attaf (54km)                  Complete Bidding Documents                   02/87
IOS.t'Chedallah4;  (SOkm)                   Basn Review                                  03/87
Invite Bids                                 04/87
Sign contracts                              09/87                              U
Substient Tra nches                     2nd Tranche   3rd Tranche              0
Definition of sub-projects                  06/87          04/U                a
Feasiblity studies (simplified)             09/87          07/88
Biddin Docments                             03/U8          12/88
Bank Review                                 04/U8
Invite Bids                                 OS/s8
Sign Contracts                              09/88
2. Road Maintenance Program      Priority given to improved road maintenance  Ensure local competitive bidding            NPW, Wilayas, ClrP
progrm.  Mlaintenance works undertaken by   for mintenance works in 7 pilot
contract under Wilaya supervision and       WIlayas: 8atna, Bouira, Chleff,
control. Efforts focussed on a pilot        Mascara, Medea, Tlecen. Duarula
program during Initial phase.
Creation of a Road Maintenance              HPW. CTTP
Planning and nagement unit
(OP6ER) within CTTP.                                                    I   2
Ensure funding of OPGER under                PW,  OP moQ 
1987 and subsequent bidgets.                  03/87
0
t.9h



Activitv                    Recent Action                             Action to be Taken under Proiect            ResDonsibility/Timina
Preparation of 1987 program:                  Establishment of typical specifica-           HPW. CTTP
-Road network inventory giving surface        tions and contract documents for              03/87
condition and traffic levels for each        local competitive bidding.
itinerary in each of the 7 pilot Wilayas.   Bank review of typical documents               03/87
-4aintenance works accomalished in 1986       during negotiations.
and program for 1987 established aceord-    Call for bids on 1987 programs.                Wilayas/05/87
ing to standard intervention criteria.       Start maintenance works                       07/87
Supervision and control of works              wilayas/CTTP/LTP
Preparation of subsequent years pro-          NPW/CTTP/Wilayas
grams according to economic criteria
defined by DPGER.
--Provisional 1988 program                    09/87
--Final 1988 program                          12/87
Issue guidelines on road maintenance          NPW/CTTP
plamiing to be sent to Wilayas not
included in pilot program.
B.  HIGHWAY ORGANIZATION AND ROAD FINANCING
1. Operation of Pavement          Following introduction of several pave-       Assign permanent staff to unit in              CTTP
Strengthening Unit (URC)    ment design systems over the years, MPW         following order of priority:
responsible for prepara-      wishes to adopt standard procedures           1 highway engineer (2nd tranche studies)       01/87
tion of annual programs       suitable for Algerian conditions.             I highway engineer (pavement specialist)       01/87                             Un
and for monitoring iaple-                                                    1 highway engineer (supervision of 1st        03/87
mentation at Wilaya level.                                                                        tranche)
1 engineer/economist                          04/87
The new unit will require a training          Call for proposals for assistance to URC       03/87
program in order to establish selection
procedures for sub-proJects, simplified       URC to start operations with preparation
economic evaluations and a rationalization   of 2nd tranche of pavement strengthening.    03/87
of pavement design methods.
Training also to be provided for engineers
responsible for supervision and control of
works at Wilaya level.
Training will be provided by two highway
engineers (studies and control). one
engineer/soils specialist and one engineer/
economist (part-time).
2.  Operation of Road Main-       In order to increase efficiency of road       Assign permanent staff to DPGER:               MPW. CTTP                  .d .-g
tenance Unit (OP6R)          maintenance, MN wishes to establish a         3 highway engineers and 1 economist            05/87
planning unit within CTTP. A new depart-    (highways).  Provide logistic support                                       i I-A
ment (DP6ER) will be responsible for          including technicians, secreteries.
rational planning of road maintenance,        offices and vehicles.
quality control and training at the
Wilaya level.                                                                                                           _



Activity                   Recent Action                             Action to he Taken under Proieet            Restnnsibility/TiMina
The new department will require a training   Call for proposals for assistance             PHP. CTTP
prooram for its start-up phase. The TOR      to DPGER                                      04/87
for this assistance have been established.
Training will be provided by a specialist
in maintenance planning, a maintenance       Start-up of DPGER with mobilization           10/87
operations specialist, a maintenance control of training assistance.
specialist plus 10 man-months of short-term
experts (total 60 man-months).
3. Highway Intestment Program   Priority is being given to preservation of
existing network. Budgetary constraints
are likely to limit investment program to
pavement strengthening program (600 to 800
km/yr for primary roads). to the
completion of ongoing new construction
projects (mainly RI9 and 027) and
possibly a continuation of the expressway
program (Algiers area).
Core investment program for primary and       Present annual investment program to Bank:   MPW
secondary roads under 1985-89 Plan expected  - 1987 Budget during loan negotiations.       03/87
to be around DA 13 billion. with about        - 1988 Budget
DA 9 billion during 1986-89.                    * draft program                             12/87
final version                            03/88
- 1989 Budget
a draft program                             12/8S
a final version                            03/89
4.  Road Maintenance Budgets     Maintenance budgets have been increasing.    AdJustment of annual maintenance               MPW, NOF
1985 expenditures were DA 346 million for    budgets (nEtional and regional roads)         Wilayas
national roads and DA 204 nillion for         taking into account Improved planning.
secondary roads. 1986 allocations Increased  increased productivity. inflation, and
to DA 388 million for primary roads and DA   reclassifications in road network.
221 million for secondary roads.             Present provisional annual budgets to          11/897 for 1988 budget
According to MU. normal maintenance needs   Bank with objective of reaching follow-         I 1/8  for 1989 budget
for paved roads (primary and secondary)       ing levels for national roads:
would require DA 900 million (1986 prices).  1987- DA 500 million
1988- DA 50 million
1989- DA 600 million
FPW proposes to make budget allocations to   The budget allocations for the pilot          MPW, NOF
pilot wHilayas based on actual needs.        Wilayas would correspond to the               03/87 first allocation
r    rqurments of the routine and
periodic maintenance programs for 1987.       07/87 second allocation
Reexamine special effort on pilot             11/87
WHilaya budgets prior to finalizing
1988 budget.
0



ArtivitX                   Recent Action                             Action to be Taken under Pralect            ResIonsibilitv/Timdna
C. TIAMSPORT SECtOR STUDIES
1.  Preparation of a             The Government is concerned with increasing  Define the scope and timing of the
Comprehensive transport      the efficiency of the transport sector in    study subcomponents o? priority trans-
study for Algeria.           Algeria.  To this end it intends to           port atters which could lead, in the          MOT
establish a multi-modal Transport Investi-  short term, to the start of special            07/87
gation and Planning Center under NOT. As    action programs (see below).
a first step it intends to concurrently      Establish team of Algerian experts for        07/87
(a) initiate a program of data gathering     the study.
and analysis, and (b) define the composi-   Conduct and complete priority portions         06/89
tion, organization and operational require-  of the study.
Ments of such a center.
2.  Road User Charges            An Identified Study subcomponent of the       Approval of final terms of reference          NOT, NPW, HOF
Evaluation                   comprehensive transport study (C.l above) is during negotiations.                           03/87
to evaluate revenue from road users comWpared
with publ4c expenditures on the road network 6eneral contlusions of study.                 09/88
and to establish a sound road aser charge
structure.  Draft terms of reference have    Proposals for tax reform and action           12/88
been prepared.  Possible revisions to road   plan for implementation.
user charges would enca Jrage greater effi-
ciency in the transpOrt sector and possibly
savings in the use of energy.
3. Highway Safety and            The accident rate is approximately 3 times   Diagnostic study of present situation.         MOT
Accident Preventlon          European level for comparable types of        Definition of action plan under the           03/88                            n
accident.  Identified as a priority sub-     project, includirg confirmation of
topic under comprehensive transport study    extent to which unsatisfactory mechani-
(C.l above).                                 cal condition of vehicles contributes to
accidents; definition of the vehicle
fleet requiring inspection; related
resource requl remnts and a pilot
implementation program.                      06/88
Approval of terms of reference.              05/87
4.  Preparation of Detailed      The Government Is according priority to       Preparation of contracts for detailed         SNTF
Engineering and Bid          rehabilitation of man-lines of the railway  engineering.                                    12/87
Docunents for 200 km of      network. The goal is to rehabilitate 400 km  Preparation of detailed eneinnering and
Railroad Track Rehabilita-   of the most heavily travelled sections of    bid documents for the rem ining 200 km,
tion                         the network, during the period 1988-1990.    including review and, if necessary, up-
Detailed engineering of 200 km has been       dating of existing bid docmunts so as
prepared.  The Goverrment intends to seek    to adapt them to IMR  procurement
BIRD financing for the 400 ke package of      requirements.                                04/8U
rehabilitation works as well as for
training and other related priority matters  Define bidding program satisfactory to
(to be define4).                             the SUTF and the IBRD.                        05/88
Prequalify contractors.                      12/87
0



Activity                    Recent Action                             Action to be Taken under Proiect            Resnonsibil itvTimino
S.  Port Equipment Moderniza-    The Government recognizes the need to          Define terms of reference for a study of       NOT/DP
tion Study.                   improve the capacity of semi-autonomously    the through-put capacity of existing            03/87
managed Algerian ports, by means of moderni- ports. with special attention to equip-
zing port equipment including, in particu-  ment, in light of the demands generated
lar, adding equipment to handle container    by the areats) serviced by each port, so
and Ro-Ro traffic.  It also recognizes that  as to assess and prioritize equipment
in order for such investments to be soundly  improvement needs and identify other
founded, the improvements should be staged,  constraints (infrastructure/organiza-
with priority given to initially equippi.g   tion) for further study.
a limited number of ports, on a priority      Engage consultants.                            09/87
basis, for container traffic while impro-    Complete study.                                 03/88
ving other port capacity for conventional
or other specialized cargo. It intends to
request IBRD financing for needs thus
identified.
6.  Preparation of Detailed       The Government has been reviewing a study    Preparation of detailed engineering             MPW/LMS
Engineering and Bid           of alternative plans for developing           and bid documents, including
Documents for a Container    container handling capacity of the Port of   foundation investigations and other
Terminal in the Port of       Algiers, and has decided that as a first      related evaluation which would need
Algiers.                      phase, an area of the present port could      to be undertaken.
be modified for this purpose (deferring a    Preparation of terms of reference.              03/87
more ambitious and costly expansion           Execution of the study.                        03/88
program).  Only preliminary engineering       Prequalification of contractors.               06/83
for this scheme has been prepared.  The
Government intends to seek IBRD financing
for the proposed improvements.
7.  Installing a Maritime         The Government is interested in investiga-   Preparation of a short study                    NOT
Shipping Model.               ting the desirability of installing, in       evaluating suitability of the input/
Algeria, a maritime shipping model as an      output of existing models to
integrated part of planning of port require- Algerian requirements, also of the
ments.  However, the appropriateness of       requirements and related costs of
existing models to Algerian port conditions  adapting such models to Algerian
and maritime transport planning, the input   needs.
data availability for model requirements      Eventually assisting in the
and the dependability of the results need    installation of a model if
further quantification.                       necessary.
Preparation of study terms of                 03/88
reference.
Engaging consultants.                         09/88
Completion of study.                          03/89
'0
0s-
0 
ti
en 1



Aclivity                    Recent Action                              Action to be Taken under Proiect             Resoonsibility/Timina
0.  RESERCH/TRAINING
Ministry of Public Works      The  Ministry of Public Works (MPM) in 1986
reorganized its educational/vocational
institutions which now include one
engineering school and three schools for
advanced level technicians. In order to
develop a dynamic personnel management
system for the sector, implementation of
actions aimed at institutional development
of the training function are required,
including formulating a policy aimed at
providing continuous retraining and up-
grading of staff skills. In particular.
this would require support from a
research unit which would be created
within the framework of the engineering
school. MWw receives assistance for its
schools from bilateral and international
aid agencies. The comoonent foreseen under
the present Hghway project would complement
these other programs and would aim, in
particular, at:
(a) the institutional development of the       (a) draw up CTTP's contract.  This             MPW
training function for staff of project         contract would define the training         03/87
related entities by means of organizing        services which would be provided by
training programs designed to be               CTTP in order to achieve the stated
implemented using existing Algerian            objectives.
training institutions to the fullest       (b) designate the coordinator in CTTP          MPW/CTTP
extent possible;                               who would be responsible for all           04/87
(b) preparation, implementation, follow-up         training actions.
and evaluation of training plans and       (c) prepare an overall schedule for the        HPW/CTTP
programs for highway administration            proposed training.                         09/87
personnel (CTTP, regional laboratories,  (d) provide information concerning the           NPA
Wilayas) in the following fields:              applied research programs on use of
programing, design studies, prepara-           road construction materials,
tion. organi2ation, execution, super-          financed by other bilateral aid
vision of road rehabilitation and              agencies.
maintenance works, research into           (e) draw up the list of didactic               #PW/CTTP
appropriate use of road-building               documentation and equipment to             10/87
materials, cost accounting for an              be acquired under the proJect
analysis of road construction and
maintenance operations;
(c) supply of didactic documentation and
equipment for the sector's educational                                                                               P 14
institutions.                                                                                                        U |x
0



Activit                    Rcc-nt Action                             Aetion to  . Takh n undcr Proltet            egmSibhilitv/Tiudn.
2. Ministry of Transport         The ministry of Transport gives high prior-  a. draw up terms of reference for              MDT
ity to hunman resources development.  A sec-    technical assistance to HOT'S              05/87
torial steering committee for training has       directorates for planning and
already been formed. The ministry has           training  nd for road transport.
decided to strengthen its sectorial person-  b. initiate the technical assistance          MT
nel managemnt organizations and to require       defined in a. above.                      07/87
these, with assistance of consultants, to:   c. draw up terms of reference for             MOT/SKTF
(i) estimate personnel needs for the sector     trainins of SiTF personnel.               0/87
by the years 2000 and 2010. (ii) prepare an  d. initiate the technical assistance          MDT/SKTF
overall training plan both for higher-level      defined in c. above.                      08/87
staff and for all SNTF personnel, and (iii)  e. draw up terms of reference for other       NOT/SRTR
to prepare a 1987-90 overall training plan      technical assistance requirements.         06/87
to be implemented under the project.  This  f. initiate technical assistance               MOT/SNTR
latter plan would aim at training staff         services defined in e. above.              10/87
assigned to the personnel manasement and      . list didactic docunentation and            MOT/SMTF/SMTR
training units, also training higher-level      other equipment to be financed under       10/87
staff from MDT. SMUT. SOWAT4AG and SUTF in       the proJect.
the fields of international and regional     h. copletion of technical assistance          12/89
freight transport, manasement and economic/      services.
technical evaluation of projects. The plan
would aim  at training both supervisory and
operational staff assigned to equipment
maintenance and warehousing in the fields
of equip ent maintenance and spare parts
*aemtruent, and would finally provide for
the training of supervisors, and operational
staff of NOT, STR and SONATMAG as well as
drivers in the fields of road safety and
fuel econo.
.0~*
0
-Jg 



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STUDY ON RECOVERING HIGHWAY EXPENDITURES FROM USERS
Outline Terms of Reference
I. General
1.       In the transport sector, the cost of using public infrastructure
can readily be passed on to users in cases where access to such infrastruc-
ture is controlled, i.e. is generally in the hands of a concessionaire. For
railways, ports and airports, the cost of infrastructure use can be re-
flected in railway tariffs, port dues or airport users fees. In the roads
subsector, on the other hand, it is in practice impossible to limit access
to the system as a whole. While a series of toll booths is feasible for an
interurban expressway, such a system cannot be extended to the ordinary road
system except at prohibitive cost and with an overall loss in collective
utility. Yet charging road users for the costs to the national treasury
arising from their use of the roads would respond to the concept of esta-
blishing the true cost of road transport. This would promote better distri-
bution of demand among the various modes, by making costs comparable, and at
the same time improve the overall structure of road transport in terms of
capacity and areas served.
2.       The  only  opportunities  available  to the public authorities  to
recover road-related expenditures are vehicle taxation and taxes on trans-
port activities.  The authorities must therefore look to the proceeds of
such taxes to provide the counterpart to public expenditureR on roads. This
leaves two issues open: (a) the nature and extent of the expenditures it is
felt desirable to recover, and (b) what specific portion of the tax revenues
can legitimately be regarded as intended to offset those costs. By compar-
ing road expenditures and revenue accruing, the Governmnt will be able to
determine whether or not the implicit policy of infrastructure charges is
consistent with a sound allocation of resources. It will then have data at
its disposal enabling it to make any necessary adjustments. To this end,
the Government accordingly wishes to engage the services of a consulting
firm to assist it in evaluating the current cost-recovery situation and to
make recommendations for any needed reforms.
II. Obiectives
3.       The proposed study will focus on the following objectives:



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
(a) Determine the magnitude, both at present and in the recent
past, of the various categories of public expenditure (admin-
istration, maintenance, and capital investment) devoted to
roads, together with their sources of budgetary financing.
(b) Propose a system of cost allocation that would enable these
public expenditures to be distributed in a rational manner to
the various categories of road users.
(c) Determine the significance, both at present and in recent
years, of the tax revenues derived from road use and road
transport activities. Present a separate calculation for each
traffic category.
(d) Prepare a consolidated statement of income and expenditure for
the road system as a whole, broken down by traffic category,
with a view to presenting initial findings in this area.
(e) Propose a cost-recovery system that would best reconcile the
principle of budgetary equilibrium and that of providing opti-
mal service within the transport sector. Determine whether it
would be desirable to develop standard costs for certain cate-
gories of road works and determine the corresponding tax
rates, with or without any proposed adjustments.
(f) Define and separate out from road user taxes those that can be
considered as general taxes and those that may be regarded as
specific to road use.
(g) Evaluate the unit revenue generated and compare this with the
unit costs to be recovered. Draw conclusions with a view to e
possible reform of road user taxation.
III. Scope and Limits of the Study
4.       In principle, the study will examine only the allocation of public
expeuditures relating to the inter-urban network.   The tax base is thus
limited to traffic on that network. It should, however, be noted that urban
traffic contributes its share to total vehicle tax revenues. Urban traffic
should therefore be taken into account in estimating as accurately as poss-
ible the revenues related to inter-urban traffic.
5.       Following the traffic censuses conducted by the Ministry of Public
Works in 1985 and 1986, there are relatively good data on inter-urban traf-
fic on the main highway system, consisting of the national roads and the
Wilaya roads. This system carries the bulk of road traffic, with the ter-
tiary network of communal roads accounting for only a relatively marginal
amount. The study on the recovery of road infrastructure costs will thus be
limited to the main highway system only.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Pige 3 of 4
6.       By applying unit tax rates and charges to estimates of vehicle
kilometer traffic units, the road user revenue contributed by each of the
major traffic categories can be estimated. However, an attempt at an analy-
tical approach would be desirable, which would take into account the tax
component of each sub-item contributing to average vehicle operating for
various classes of vehicles.  Comparison of expected revenues and actual
revenues would make it possible to determine the yield of the various
taxes.  The estimates of vehicle operating costs already available in the
Ministry of Public Works could be used as a basis for this analysis, after a
critical review and updating of these data.
7.       The public expenditures falling within the purview of the study
would provisionally exclude the social cost of accidents, i.e. losses borne
by the community not covered by automobile insurance. An analysis of such
costs will be regarded as falling outside the scope of the study.
8.       Particular attention is to be paid to the system of taxes applic-
able to automotive fuels. Domestic retail prices reflect a controlled price
structure, in particular, ex-refinery prices; in conducting the study, the
estimated level of these prices relative to the CIF border prices for the
same products will have to be considered.  This matter is of particular
significance for diesel fuel used by heavy road vehicles.
9.       A clear definition of the specific and nonspecific character of
taxes levied on road vehicles is a difficult issue.  Some taxes will be
explicitly designated as specific to the sector, while others more clearly
relate to general taxation. For these latter, particularly in the case of
customs duties, any upward or downward deviation from the average general
tax rate may be regarded as reflecting a specific tax.
IV. Services to be Provided by the Government
10.      The Government will provide the consulting firm with access to use-
ful data available to the authorities. To this end the consulting firm will
be assisted by representatives of the Ministry of Transport under the aegis
of a Coordinating Committee made up of senior officials of the Ministries of
Finance, Public Works, and Transport. Implementation of the study will in
particular require access to (a) customs statistics on imports; (b) vehicle
tax revenues received by the Treasury; (c) all data regarding the registra-
tion of road vehicles; (d) data on budget expenditures relating to the roads
subsector whose execution is controlled either' by the Government or by the
Wilayas; (e) the results of traffic censuses conducted      by  the  Ministry
of Public Works, as well as the results of axle load surveys; (f) standards
and costs of road works available from the Ministry of Public Works, etc.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
11.      Should any additional data processing or supplementary surveys be
deemed necessary, the Government will extend its full support. The cost of
such processing and surveys must be included in the consultant's budget.
The Ministry of Transport will appoint and assign to the study team a suffi-
cient number of counterparts whose function it will be to follow up and
update the work carried out within the framework of the study.
V.  Timetable: Au4set and Submission of Reports
12.      In view of the data requirements for the study, particularly the
need to carry out certain additional processing and supplementary surveys,
the study is expected to take at least 15 months. The projected consultant
services budget should not exceed approximately 40-50 man-months of profes-
sional services (engineers and economists).
13.      The schedule for submission of reports will be as follows:
(a) An initial report must be submitted not later than three (3)
months after receipt of the notice to proceed.  This report
will comprise: (a) the definitive methodology to be employed
for the study; (b) analysis and evaluation of available data
that have been reviewed; (c) definition of additional process-
ing and supplementary surveys required, with timetable for
their execution.
(b) A first interim report will present overall estimates of road
infrastructure expenditures and of road user revenues.
(c) A second interim report will deal with recommended cost recov-
ery policy, possibly including recommendations on road expen-
ditures  where  prior  adjustment  might  be  advisable.   This
report. will also deal with the related road user charge struc-
ture, distinguishing between those taxes of a specific and of
a nonspecific nature.
(d) A draft final report will  sum up the main  points  of  the
study. It will contain the study's recommendations on the
subject of road user charges and present in draft form the
implementation measures to be taken, whether immediately or on
a  step-by-step basis.   This  report will  mention  any  con-
straints on road/rail coordination.  It will also assess the
order of the expected impact on consumer prices.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PAVEMENT STRENGTHENING DESIGN METHOD
I. Introduction
1.       A variety of methods for calculating pavement strengthening needs
are in use throughout the world. The majority of these recognize (i) that
pavement life is related to the fatigue effect caused by repeated applica-
tion and removal of the loads transmitted through the tires of passing vehi-
cles, and (ii) that the magnitude of the loads have an exponential effect on
the amount of wear or fatigue which they engender. However, in spite of a
very considerable amount of research and innovation of improved measuring
and testing devices, there is no single, simple sy.tem of establishing pave-
ment strengthening requirements on an absolute basis.  Such  calculations
have to consider an array of indicators and data in order to arrive at
rational results.
2.       In Algeria, consultants engaged for preparation of detailed engine-
ering on past Bank financed projects, left with MPW different (alternative)
systems and procedures for dimensioning overlays. The differences in part
stem from the manner in which field data is applied, which fall under the
caption of "the experience and judgement of the engineers." MPW, desirous
of standardizing on a system which could progressively be refined to reflect
conditions and experience gained on Algerian. roads, entrusted the prepara-
tion of detailed engineering for the project roads to the CTTP (ex-LNTP).
Bank preparation missions included a consultant who provided guidance to
CTTP staff in developing a rational method of applying one of the design
systems so as to produce satisfactory results.
II. Desian Method
3.       A model of a geotechnical report for the RN-4 road concerning over-
lay requirements which serves as an example for other road sections, is in
project files. This includes a chapter on pavement dimensioning, the prin-
ciples of which are summnarised in this Annex.
Two methods for comparison
4.       Pavement dimensions are calculated using two systems which utilize
different input data. When both systems yield essentially the same result,
the solution is considered satisfactory. When they do not, a more detailed
examination is made to try to determine the reason and assess which data, in
each instance, are more reliable. The systems are:



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
- the consultant's guide prepared in 1978 for MPW; and
- a practical guide to pavement dimensioning in developing coun-
tries, prepared in 1980 for the French government.
5.       Both methods utilize the same traffic census data and projected
growth rates (taken as 52 p.a. over the next 10 years), however, in the con-
sultant's guide the number of trucks of over 5.0 ton gross weight (loaded)
in the 10 year design period is the determining design parameter, whereas
the practical guide uses the number of trucks of over 3.0 ton (loaded).
The Consultants Guide
6.       The consuitant's guide provides a catalogue of reinforcement dimen-
sions, from which the engineer may choose based on his experience and judge-
ment in assessing existing pavement condition, for six different ranges of
design traffic loadings. The options provided represent a "light", "medium"
and "heavy" reinforcement option in each design traffic range.
7.       In order  to systematize  to  the extent possible  the engineer's
judgement, it was decided to use the data which has been gathered on the
more heavily travelled national roads in Algeria, namely:  (i) roughness
measurements (Bump Integrator) and (ii) pavement deflection measurements
(Lacroix).   In addition visual inspections were organized to quantify the
areas of apparent distress, types of distress and areas which had been
patched. Criteria were then established so that each of these data would be
classified as a good, fair or bad result. The matrix which was then used to
define which combinations of good, fair and bad would lead to utilizing the
light, medium or heavy reinforcement alternative, for the traffic in ques-
tion, is given in Table 1 to this Annex.
The Practical Guide
8.       The practical guide provides a system for determining road pavement
structure based upon support characteristics of the natural ground and suc-
cessive layers of (i) selected soils, (ii) processed stone or stabilized
materials, and (iii) paving materials. A total required equivalent thick-
ness of pavement structure is calculated in function of design traffic
loadings and soil support.  This is translated into thickness (depths) of
layers  of  the  proposed  pavement  structure  based  upon  predetermined
equivalence values, per centimeter of depth, of alternative subbase, base
and paving materials. The necessary thickness of pavement structure to meet
the requirement is determined by least cost procedures and, usually, an
imposed minimum thickness of wearing course pavement.   Standard practice
also requires that the relative stiffness of successive layers be considered.



-63-                                 4
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
9.       To determine pavement strengthening requirements, two calculations
are made.   The first establishes the equivalent thickness requirement for
the design traffic loading as if a new road were being constructed.   The
second calculates the residual equivalent thickness of the existing road
pavement structure.   The difference between  these  two values gives  the
required equivalent thickness of the pavement strengthening. During project
preparation field sampling was organized to obtain the data needed concern-
ing the existing road pavement structure, the natural soil support, the age
of existing road and improvements previously constructed, to supplement con-
sultation of old design plans when these could be found. Residual equiva-
lent values lower than those assigned the same materials in new construc-
tion, were used to reflect the effects of deterioration, weathering, fatigue
and changes in materials gradation over time. Table 2 to this Annex gives
the equivalence values which have tentatively been established for Algerian
conditions.
III. Comments
10.      Correlation between the two methods was frequently good leading to
the conclusion that the "comparison" approach is sound and suitable for
further improvement or refinement by URC staff during the course of prepar-
ing detailed engineering of subsequent tranches. Lack of correlation gener-
ally pointed to weaknesses in the data base.   Deflection and roughness
measurements were not always as current as could be desired, maintenance
history was often lacking and had to be deduced from observed patching which
could be concealed by localized sealing operations.   These matters could
generally be improved by instituting appropriate record keeping and better
scheduling of field measurements and testing to support the needs of the
program.
11.      Coring of existing road pavements also revealed a number of prob-
lems due to poor or faulty construction, poor control of aggregates or of
natural material selection and other localized defects.   These would be
addressed under the project by URC monitoring the construction supervision
procedures and assuring assistance and on-site training of DIB supervisory
staff when needed.



-64-                                             4
Table 1
ALIERMA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HINWY  PROJECT
Matrix of Data Treat&nat to Select Strengthgning Alternative
using thg Consultant0 i guide (1173).
Strengthening                 Roughness           Deflections Rondition
Alternative               fid Fa1r  l"         Oa   fa1 lE   d I"d  EAI  lAU
Maintenance Overlay           x                    x                   x
x                   x                         x
Light Alternative             x                         x              x
x              x                        x
x              x                   x
x                   x                   x
x                  .x                               x
Medium                             x               x                              x
Alternative                       x                    x              x
.4       x                        x
x             x              x
x                         x                  x
x                         x                         x
Heavy                                    x              x                   x
Alternative                             x                    x             x
x                   x        x
Heavy with corrective                    xx                                       x
Measures
Criteria: -   uoDhness (mm/km)                 CoDndition:
Good        less than 2000                   Good: only local1zed spot failures
rair           2000 - 3500                           and/or patching. or none at all.
Bad         more than MO0
Fair: failures, patching and skin
-Deflection (mm x 10-2)                     sealing insufficient to class
Good        less than 100                            as bad.
Fair            100 - 200
Bad         more than 200                    Bad :generalize cracking or patching
and skin-sealing; evidence of
base or subbase failure;
rutting or shaving; slip
failure in sidehill road sections.



-65-
ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pavement Materials, Equivalence Valuts
A. Existing Construction
Equivalence
PAVEMENT                                                            (cm/cm)
Surface dressings:
- less than 5 cm accumulated thickness                            0
(in good condition, fairly new    1.0
- about 5 cm in thickness      (slightly distressed               0.8-0.6
(distressed                        0
- on asphalt concrete, total  (fairly new                         1.3
thickness about 10 cm       (fairly old or poorly attached    1.1-0.8
Asphalt Concrete
(fairly new                        1.3
- about 10 cm thickness        (fairly old or poorly attached    1.1-0.8
- on surface dressing, total  (in good condition, fairly new    1.5-1.3
thickness about 10cm         (in poor condition or poorly
(attached                          1.1-0.8
BASE
Crushed Stone
less than 20 cm thick                                        0.5
about 20 cm thick                                            0.6
more than 20 cm thick                                        0.7
Natural Gravel
about 20 cm thick                                            0.5
more than 20 cm thick                                        0.6



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
SUB-BASE
Waterbound Macadam                                           0.5
Crushed gravel, screened natural gravels or
mixtures of natural and crushed gravels:
- about 20 cm thick                                          0.4
- more than 20 cm thick                                      0.5
Course natural gravels or sand and
gravel mixes:                                                0.4
B. New Construction
PAVEMENT
Asphalt Concrete
- about 5 cm thickness                                       1.8
- 7 cm or more in thickness                                  2.0
Asphalt Stabilized Crushed Stone
- about 10 cm (not less than 8 cm) thickness                 1.2
- 11 cm to 14 cm thickness                                   1.3-1.4
- about 15 cm thickness                                      1.5
- more than 20 cm thickness                                  1.6
Base and Subbase
Maximum values shown in A above except natural gravels (selected)
would assume values equal to crushed stone (as base) and new subbases would
increase in value by O.1cm/cm if properly selected.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
I. Introduction
1.       This annex provides details of the approach used in the preparation
and economic evaluation of the road rehabilitation and road maintenance pro-
grams. Preparation was undertaken by MPW and LNTP working in close collabo-
ration with Bank missions. Background data and working papers are available
in the Project File and are listed in Annex 7.
IT. Road Rehabilitation Program
2.       Road rehabilitation programs are prepared by MPW on the basis of
detailed proposals initiated by the Wilayas. Technical studies are gener-
ally prepared by consultants (para. 2.19), or by regional design staff
assisted by the central CTTP. MPW now wishes to establish the URC within
CTTP (para. 2.14) which will be responsible for preparation of road rehabil-
itation projects. This unit will use the simple economic evaluation method-
ology which is described below.
Methodology
3.       Pavement strengthening and overlays are designed for a ten-year
life.  The thickness of overlays is calculated as explained in Annex 3.
Cost estimates include ancillary works such as reinstating shoulders, em-
bankment slopes and drainage systems. Pavement widening and minor realign-
ments may also be included when appropriate in rehabilitation schemes but
the latter should not exceed 10% or lf of the total length.
4.       To  maintain  existing  roads  in  serviceable  condition  without
strengthening, maintenance effort and costs would need to increase rapidly
over the period of the analysis. In the absence of such stepped-up mainte-
nance effort, transport costs would increase rapidly due to excessive
deterioration of the pavement up to a ]avel at which traffic diversion or
road blockage would occur. The total stepped-up maintenance cost over the
period of the analysis is assumed to be equivalent to the cost of the pave-
ment strengthening and its distribution would build up as a function of
deterioration. Typical surface maintenance costs for the project roads are
estimated at about DA 20,000 per kilometer net-of-taxes.



- 68 -                              4
ANNE% 4
Page 2 of 4
5.       User benefits from pavement strengthening derive from the differ-
ence between transport costs on a poor road surface throughout the ten-year
evaluation period (without project scenario) and on an initially excellent
surface progressively returning to a poor surface condition during the pave-
ment life (with project scenario). The deterioration curve of the road's
condition assumes that typically half the total deterioration takes place in
the last two years (last 201) of the pavement's useful  life.   Pavement
deterioration is either measured or is based on visual inspection which is
translated into roughness measurements in order to use the roughness/vehicle
operating cost relationships of the Road Deterioration and Maintenance Sub-
Model of the HbM.  The scale used is:
Excellent            2,000 mm/km
Good                 2,200 mm/km
Fair                 2,500 mm/km
Bad                  3,000 mm/km
Very bad             4,000 mm/km
6.       Base  (minimum)  vehicle  operating  cost  figures  are  shown  in
Table 1.  Excess vehicle operating costs for different levels of road rough-
ness compared with a base roughness level of 1,800 mm/km are shown below:
Excess Vehicle Operating Costs/Road Roughness
(Centimes of Dinar - 1985 Prices)
Roushness mm/km
Traffic Comp.   2.000   2,200  2.500   3.000   3.500   4,000
Passenger Car          602           1.0     1.9    3.2     5.4      7.3    9.3
Van                    101           0.8     1.6    2.7     4.6      6.2    8.0
Truck  2/              301           5.1    10.1   17.0    30.3    42.0   55.6
Average Excess VOC    1002           2.2     4.3    7.3    12.8    17.6   23.1
1/ Economic costs compared with base level of 1,800 mm/km
2/ Medium 10-ton truck is taken as representative vehicle
Results for First Tranche
7.       Tables 2 to 4 show the application of the above methodology to the
three road sections included in the first tranche of the road rehabilitation
program.  The IRs vary from 141 to 351 with an overall average of 231.
Other sections under the program will be prepared according to the agreed
methodology and submitted to the Bank for prior review (see Project Action
Plan - Annex 1).



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
III. Road Maintenance Program
8.       The  road  maintenance  planning  and  management  department-DGPER
(para. 2.14) would be operational in early 1987. Although detailed road
inventory data would not be available at that time, an attempt would be made
to establish priorities for the 1987 surface dressing program in the seven
pilot wilayas using preliminary data. However, the planning system would be
fully operational by the end of 1987 so that the 1988 program could be pre-
pared according to the requirements outlined in the Project Action Plan
(Annex 1).
Pavement Deterioration
9.       It is assumed that under optimm road maintenance effort, pavement
life extends over a ten-year period during which roughness increased from
2,000 mr/km to 4,000 mm/km over the period. Roughness does not increase
beyond 4,000 mm/km but continued maintenance costs, at this level of rough-
ness, are high.  Il most Wilayas, the present maintenance effort has not
reached the optimum level, being generally in the range of 50% to 902 of the
optimum. Typically pavement life at these maintenance levels is reduced in
a proportionate maimer as follows:
Scenario 1: For a level of maintenance reaching 85X of the optimum, pave-
ment life is nine years.
Scenario 2:   For a level of maintenance reaching 701 of the optimum, pave-
ment life is eight years.
Scenario 3:   For a level of maintenance reaching 551 of the optimum, pave-
ment life is seven years.
10.      These simple patterns of deterioration for a five year analysis
period (1987-91) are shown in Table 5. They have been applied to the road
networks of two of the pilot Wilayas under the proposed project. For these
two Wilayas - Bouira and Chlef - details of the network by surface condition
and traffic level has been established for 1986 and the number of vehicle-
kilometers in each surface condition category has been estimated (Tables 10
and 11). Vehicles operating costs over the network are estimated assuming an
increase of DA 110 per million-vehicle-kilometers for each 1 m per kilo-
meter increase in roughness (see para. 6). Vehicle operating cost savings
per million-vehicle-kilometers for several pavement life scenarios and for
each initial surface category condition are shown in Table 6.
Maintenance Costs
11.      Under optimum conditions, average maintenance costs are estimated
at DA 30,000 per kilometer of which about half is allocated to the pavement



- 70-
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
(routine and periodic maintenance). It is assumed that maintenance activi-
ties on the road pavement increase with the age and corresponding deteriora-
tion of the pavement, from 102 of the average in the first year to 300S of
the average in the tenth year. For less than optimum maintenance levels,
average maintenance costs are reduced by a coefficient corresronding to the
percentage difference between the actual level of maintenance and the opti-
mum level (e.g. a 10% reduction corresponds to 902 of the optimum mainte-
nance effort). The maintenance costs per kilometer for the different levels
of maintenance and range of roughness values from 2,000 to 4,000 mm/km are
shown in Table 7.  Once pavement deterioration has reached 4,000 mm/km,
maintenance costs would reach a threshold level which represents a conserva-
tive assumption.
Results
12.      The methodology described above has been applied to the road net-
works of two of the pilot Wilayas, namely Bouira and Chlef. For each of
these Wilayas an inventory has been established for each itinerary giving
traffic level and surface condition in 1986 (Tables 8 and 9). In this way,
the number of vehicle-kilometers in each surface condition category has been
estimated. The evolution of each network is then estimated over a five-year
period (1987-91) according to the deterioration patterns shown in Table 5.
For each year, estimates have been made of vehicle operating cost savings,
which would follow from an increase in the maintenance effort from one level
to another, using values shown in Table 6.
13.      Tables 10 and 11 show the five-year streams of costs and benefits
corresponding to incremental changes in the level of maintenance. The esti-
mated ER of increasing the maintenance effort from 551 of the optimum to 702
of the optimum exceeds 300% in Bouira and is about 1802 in Chlef.   An
increase from 701 of the optimum to 85S of the optimum level would give an
ER of over 200% for Bouira and about 1301 for Chlef. The incremental ER for
increasing the maintenance effort from 85% of the optimum to the optimum
level would be about 100% in Bouira and 50% in Chlef. These results are
indicative of the high returns on marginal increases in the road maintenance
effort.



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs 1'
Centimes of Dinar per Km - Economic Costs (1985 Prices)
Trucks
Light   Medium   Trailer
Car     Van     UBs   (6 ton) (10 tons) (18 Ton)
Fuel                           16.9    23.6    40.0      20.9    40.2    56.7
Lubricants                      0.3     0.5      C.9      0.9     0.9      0.9
Tires                           0.5     0.7    34.7       3.5    33.6    47.0
Maintenance                     9.3     6.7    28.7      14.3    44.9    57.9
Depreciation and Interest      15.0    14.2    47.1      32.9    74.2    85.1
Insurance                       4.7     5.8      3.6      3.7     5.0      8.8
Driver Salaries                 -      90.6    58.3      50.0    63.3    85.4
Overhead                        -       8.5    12.8      7.6     15.7    20.5
Total                      46.7   150.6   226.1    133.8   277.8   362.3
Benchmark Speed:  Km/hour      90      70      .60       60      60       60
1/ Level, tangent paved road in excellent condition (1800 mm/km)
Fuel prices adjusted to economic costs.
Source:       Ministry      of      Public      Works,      December       1985



STAFE APPRAISAL POERT
FrFTH Nr1EWAY PON=
Pavgnt Strenathenina R3: Ain Touta - Riskra - 49 Km
Econi e Evaluation
(DA Million)
Ile ftChness mu/km  __osts__     pSuDol ntary VOC 2M Met
Tmairaf      gLa       NMth   SK&    NM        N&k        NMth        Benefits
1987      3,000      3,200   3,200      1.7   43.6      8.1       8.1          -41.9
1988      3.000      3,200   2,000      1.9    1.0      8.1        1.2           7.8
1989      3,000      3,200   2,080      2.3    1.0      8.1        1.5           7.9
199O      3,000      3,200   2,180      2.6    1.0      8.1        2.0           7.7
1991      3,120      3,200   2,240      3.0    1.0      8.4        2.5           7.9
1992      3,240      3,200   2,320      3.4    1.0      8.7        3.1           8.0
1993      3,370      3,200   2,410      3.9    1.0      9.0        3.8           8.1
1994      3.510      3,200   2.500      4.8    1.0      9.4        4.8           8.4
1995      3,650      3,200   2.600      5.6    1.0      9.8        5.5           8.9
1996      3,800      3,200   2,80       6.6    1.0      10.2       7.7           8.1
1997      3.9S0      3,200   3,200      7.8    1.0      10.6      10.6           6.8
-a
1/ Traffic growth: Zero growth 1987-90; 4% per year 1ln1-97.
V/ Supplementary vehicle operating costs In relation to roughnwss level of 1,800 /mJku.
lASlts
ER = 14S                               Costs + 10 Benefits - IOX:
KPV at lO% = DA 7.0 million            ER = 9%
NPV at 10% = OA - 2.1 million



STAFF ARISAL  fPRT
FIFTH H!4UYPm.UECT
Pavgfnk Strenathenina   4:  MOuMaa - hmios Miliana - Rouina - 54 1M
cQnnmai Evaluation
(0A milIon)
Ru hnsLa  k.    .......~a.Costs      &an *mrtaz v.c:             Net
1987      8,C00        3,000    3,000      1.9   52.8       22.8       22.8           -50.9
1988       8,C00       3,000    2,000      2.3    1.1       22.8        4.0            20.0
1989       8,600       3,000    2,060      2.8    1.1       22.8        5.0            19.5
1990      8,600        3,000    2,130      3.2    1.1       22.8        6.3            18.6
1991       8,940       3,000    2,200      3.7    1.1       23.7        8.0            18.3
1992       9,300       3,000    2.270      4.2     1.1      24.6        9.5            18.2
199        9,670       3,000    2.350      4.8    1.1       2S.6       11.3            18.0
1994      10,060       3,000    2,420      5.8     1.1      26.7       13.3            18.1
1995      10,460       3,000    2,S00      6.8     1.1      27.8       15.8            17.7
1996      10,880       3.000    2,740      7.9     1.1      28.8       21.8            13.8
1997      11,320       3,000    3,000      9.4     1.1      30.0       30.0             8.3                                             w
1J Traffic growth: Zero srowth 1987-90; 4X per year 1991-97.
2/ Suppleinntary vehicle operating costs In relation to roughness level of 1,800 m/km.
ER = 35X                                  Costs + i0X Benefit - IOX:
NPV at 10% = OA  57.9 mnillin             ER = 27X
NPV at 10i = OA 42.0 million
El1



STAFF APPRA SAL REpofr
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJET
PavMent Stronathenin RH S: h'Chedallah - a0rdi ou Arreridi - S0 K
[cOniAiC Evaluation
(DA million)
Rouahness RtLkb        Costs         S^iusDtauzctoc 2"         Not
Tra ffitc7z    VLQ       NMth    NQ   W=th                     NM w1th      Benefits
1987       5.500       2.900    2.900      1.7   45.6       11.4       11.4           -43.9
1988       S.500       2.900    2.000      2.0     1.0      11.4        2.2            10.2
1989       5.500       2,900    2.060      2.4     1.0      11.4        2.7            10.1
1990      5.500        2,900    2.120      2.8     1.0      11.4        3.5             9.7
1991       5,720       2.900    2,180      3.2     1.0      11.9        4.4             9.7
1992       5.950       2,900    2.250      3.7     1.0      12.3        5.2             9.8
1993       6.190       2,9o    2,310       4.2     1.0      12.8        6.2             9.8
1904       6.430       2.900    2,380      4.9     1.0      13.4        7.3            10.0
1995      6.690        2.900    2,450      5.8     1.0      14.1        8.8            10.1
1996       6.960       2.900    2.660      6.8     1.0      14.S       11.5             8.8
1997       7.240       2.900   2.900       8.1     1.0      15.1       15.1             7.1
1   Traffic growth: Zero growth 1987-90; 4% per year 1991-97.
Suppimetary vehicle operating costs in relation to roughness level of 1.800 mu/ic.
ER = lSS                                  Costs + 10% Benefit - 10%:
PV at 10% = DA 15.6 million               ER = 13%
NrW at 10% = DA 5.2 million
!11



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pavement Deterioration Patterns as a Function of
Initial Pavement Condition
Initial Pavement Condition - Roughness mm/Km
Year             Excellent        Good           Fair           Bad
1986               2,000         2,200          2,500          3,000
Ten-Year Life
1987                 2,030        2,290         2,675         3,400
1988                 2,070        2,410         2,970         4,000
1989                2,120         2,875         3,360         4,000
1990                 2,185        2,800         3,940         4,000
1991                2,270         3,115         4,000         4,000
Nine-Year Life
1987                 2,035        2,305         2,725         3,455
1988                 2,082        2,452         3,051         4,000
1989                 2,146        2,688         3,537         4,000
1990                 2,232        2,954         4,00&         4,000
1991                2,350         3,386         4,000         4,000
Eight-Year Life
1987                2,042         2,325         2,765         3,530
1988                2,101         2,509         3,167         4,000
1989                2,184         2,779         3,817         4,000
1990                 2,302        3,240         4,000         4,000
1991                2,475         3,901         4,000         4,000
Seven-Year Life
1987                2,050         2,350         2,815         3,625
1988                2,125         2,585         3,320         4,000
1989                2,240         2,950         4,000         4,000
1990                2,240         2,950         4,000         4,000
1991                2,675         3,540         4,000         4,000
Source: Mission estimates



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Cost Savings for Improved
Maintenance Levels Compared with Current Levels
as a Function of Initial Pavement Condition
(DA per million vehicle - Kilometers)
Initial Condition:
1986                   Excellent    Good      Fair         Bad
Nine to Ten years Life 
1987                       550      1,650     5,550      6,050
1988                     1*320      4,620     8,910
1989                    2,860       9,l30    19,470
1990                    5,170      16,940     6,600
1991                    8,800      29,810       -
Eight to Nine Year Life '
1987                       770      2,200     4,350      8,250
21988                    2,090      6,270    12,760
1989                    4,180      13,310    30,700
1990                     7,700     31,460       -
1991                   13,750      56,650       -
Seven to Eight Year Life 
1982                      880       2,750     5,500    10,450
1988                     2,640      8,360    16,830        -
1989                    6,160      18,810    20,230
1990                   11,880      33,000       -
1991                   22,000      10,890       -
V' Increase in pavement llfe from current maintenance level to improved
level.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Road Haintedance Costs According to
Road Surface Condition
(DA per Kilometer - Net of Tax)
Level of Maintenance Effort
Roughness         100              85S              55S
2,000         15,000            12,756            8,250
2,030         16,50(,           14,025            9,075
2,070         16,500            14,025            9,075
2,120         17,250            14,660            9,490
2,185         18,000            15,300            9,900
2,270         20,230            17,210           11,140
2,385         i.j500            21,675           14,025
2,540         33,000            28,050           18,150
2,750         42,000            35,700           23,100
3,045         51,000            43,350           28,050
3,470         60,000            51,000           33,000
49000         60,000            60,000           60,000
Source: Mission Estimtes.



- 78-
ANEX 4
Table 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTN HIGHIAY PROJECT
Road Network InventorX: 1986
Iouir*
god    Wjjh       MI    Exillnt           fad             EaiEr         IiV  Bad                      loa
2000 mu/k    2.200 me/km   2,S00 no/km   3,000 mf/km   4.000 nm/km
Nat1sal Rdada:
RN S      8      8,600      30             68.1               -           -                             98.1
RN a      7      3.775       5              7                20          22                -            56
RN  S    5/6    2,500        -              -                10           -                -            40
RN 18    6.5    2,450       34              4                 3           -                -            41
R  25    6.5    2.080        -              8.6               -           -                              8.6
N 26    6.5    5,600         -              *                 -           -                -             4
RN 29    5       2,360       -              6.5              10           -                -            16.5
RN 30    4/8       820       -             18.3               -           -                9            27.3
RN 33    4/7       400       -              4               30            -               11            46
RN 33A    7        400       -14                              -           -A.              _           1
69            134.5             73          52                20           3'48.5
gimonal Roads
Oi 20     4/7      850       -             1S               55            -                7            7
CW 23     4        250       -              -                -           S                27            32
CO  24    5        380       -             36                19          11                -            66
Cw 27     4        250       -              -                 -           -               12.5          12.5
CW 48     5        280       -              -                11           -                -            11
CW 93     5        760       -             16.5             20            -                -            36.S
Of 97    5/6       630       -             34                 -           -                -            34
Cw 98     6      1,250      23              -                 -           -                -            23
CW99      5        700       -              6                -            -                -             6
CW 12S    S      1,750       -             14               31            -                -            45
CW 12SA   S      1.500       -              -                 3           -                -             3
CW 127    6      3.400       -             32                 -           -                -            32
CS 225    S        560       -            .                   -           -                -             a8.
23            161.5            139          16               46.5          386
Reclassified Regional Roads:
CWR 1     4          SO     -              -                9           8                 9            26
C1R 2     4         7S       -              -                7.5         -                16            23.5
CWR 3     5         75       _             14                 -           -                -            14
CbR 4     5        250       -              9                 -           -                -             9
CbR5      5        1S        -             26                 -           -                3            29
CWR 6     5         75       -             10.5               -           -                -            10.5
CWR 7     S         75       -             12                -            -                -            12
CWR 8     6        375       7              -                -           -                 -             7
CWR 9     5        200       -             1S                 -           -                -            1S
CR 10    4        375       -             11                 -           -                -            11
CGR a1    4        150       -             40                -            -                -            40
CGl1    4/S        250       -             26               27            -                -            43
CM  13   4/6       150       -              5                 9           -                -            14
CWM 14    5        100       -              -                1S           -                -            1S
CWR IS    5        280       -             29                 -           S                -            24
CWR 16    5         75       -                                                                          la -  -  -
7            197.5             57.5        13               28            303
Source: DIB Bouira, June 1986



MMEX 
Table 9
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Netggrk InventorX: 1986
Raa     Vit        MI      Ecel 1Qt       GOn              EaiV  BJad                                 TOAW1
2000 u/km   2.200 mm/km   2,500 mn/km   3,000 m/kM   4.000 wni/km
Nat1pal Roaas:
RW 4     7.2       5,000        6          -                 -           -                -
7       10,000       17           -                -           -                -             -
10.5     11,000       21.7         -                -           -                -             _
2x7     13,500       11.6         -                -           -                              -
RN 19    2x7      11,530        5          -                 -           -                -             -
10.5      S,2S0        7           -                -           -                -
7        3,400       20           7                -           -                -             -
6        4,200        -           9                -           -                -             -
6.S      3,600        -          13.5             24.5         -                -             -
RN 11    6           460        -         45                19.7        0.8               -             -
5.5        270        -           8.5              7.0         7                -             -
6          250        -          14.0             10.0        10.9              -             -
RN 19A   6         2,270       -_-         7.2              34.3          -               -             -
88.3      104.2              9S.5       18.7               -           306.7
gneonal Roads
CW 23    6           490        -          5                 8          -                 -            13
CW 63    6           700        -          6.3               -           -                -             6.3
0w 2     6         1,610        -          -                24          -                14            38
CW 73    6         1,300        -         39                 -          -                 -            39
CW 101   5.5/6       400        -          4                 8         61                 -            73
CW 140   S.5         800        -          -                20.6        1.8               -            22.4
CW 34    6           400        -         39                 -          -                 -            39
CW 34    6           400        -          -                 7          -                 _             7
CW 94    5.5         25O        -          -                 3.6        -                 -             3.6
CW 74    6           250        -         36                 -          -                 -            36
OW 102   5/6         800        -          5                45.3        -                 -            50.3
CW151  5.5/7         860        -         27                20.8        -                16            63.8
CW 32    6           250        -         17                 -           -                -            17
CW 44    6           250        -         23                 -          -                 -            23
CW 132   5.5       1,320        -          -                26          -                28            54
CW 3     5.S/6       720        -          5                 -         38.5               -            43.5
CW 24    6           400        -         14                10          -                 -            24
CW1 s    5            _
220.3            173.3       101.3             93           587.9
Source: DIB Chlef, June 1986



- 80 -
A""EX 4
Table 10
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL RIEPORT
FIFTH HIGHWA PROJECTr
Evaluation of Yirnvyd NaJntenance Proara
for Plot Wilavas
Bouira
A.  No. ot vehicle-Cms in each Surface Cat ogry:  laB6  lMillion vehiki
Excellent   fiQad       LAir      NWi      M.aearxJ/  Iu9L
RN        132.6       255.3      52.5       57.7        4.3       502.4
CW         10.5        74.2      47.7        2.0        5.8        140.2
C'.        -Li'       1.7        ..L.       A.2         Li.  _  
144.1      342.2      103.5      60.6       11.2        661.6
B.  Vehicle Operatino Cost Savinas IDA Millianl:
9/10 Year Life       8    BIYear Lif    7Za Ye4c L1fi
1987              1.58                 1.82              2.27
1988             2.69                  3.77              4.96
1989             5.55                  8.35              9.40
1990             7.22                 11.88             13.00
1991             11.47                21.37              6.89
C.  Mainjtflnce Costs (DA Millioni
1QOt           85fil-         7L            JIL
1987        27.51          24.03          20.58          17.22
1988        32.79          30.02          27.01          23.70
1989        39.23          36.33          35.40          3S.13
1990        44.27          42.85          41.56          40.52
1991        48.91          47.44          51.02          52.72
0. Met Benetit Streams (DA MlliaonI 4/
Scenario I          Slenarip 2         Scenario l
1987            -1.90                 -1.63             -1.09
1988            -0.08                  0.76              1.67
1989             2.77        *         7.42              9.13
1990             5.81                 10.59             11.96
1991            10.00                 24.95              8.59
NPV at 10%       11.51                30.19             22.83
ER              104%                  211%               323%
J/  Derived from Table 2, Annex 1.
2V No change is assumed in the condition of these roads during the analy-
sis period.
3/ Reclassified Wilaya roads.
/  Scenario 1:    Increase in maintenance level from 85% of optimum to
optimum level - increase in pavement life from nine to
10 years.
Sceuarjg 2:    Increase in maintenance level frou 70% of optim  to 85%
of the optimum level - increase in pavement life from
eight to nine years.
SMaia1  2:    Increase in mintenance level from 55% of optimm to 70
of the optimwm level increase in pavemnt life from
seven to eight years.



- 81 -
Table 11
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PRO.IECT
Evaluation of joarov p-Maintenange Proarm
for Pilot WIlaYas
Chlef
A. Ng. of vehicle-Km. in eae  Surface Category:
168 t(million veh/akMl 
ExcMllenk    and        Ea1r      f       VYerX Bad 2/    XuLal
RN        276.5        55.9      65.5        1.8      3/           399.7
C_                    47.5      _Uj        J.h       2/           12AA.
276.5      103.4      123.3      21.3       S/ 524.5
B. Vehicle OnAtina Cost Savinas (DA Million):
i/II Ebr Lugr        AL Year L1ts    78 Yaarw Life
19?7             1.13                 1.16              1.43
1918             1.94                 2.80              3.67
1989             4.13                 6.34              6.13
990              3.99                 5.39              6.69
1991             5.52                 9.66              7.20
C.  Maintenance Coats (DA  tillion
_joz          _A515          _zz_           _A"_
1987        26.04          22.71         19.46          16.48
1988        30.42          28.06         2S.48          22.67
1969        35.42          33.03         32.Sl          32.85
1990        39.04          38.07         37.19          36.49
1991        42.14          41.16         43.S5          44.68
D.  Met Benef t Stream  (DA Million) 3'
_uarL1             Smonarli 2        senar   
1987            -2.21                -2.09             -1.55
1968            -0.42                 0.22              0.86
1989             1.74                 5.82              6.47
1990             3.02                 4.51              S.99
1991             4.55                12.05              8.33
NPV at 10%       4.22                14.54             21.77
ER               52%                 126%               179%
I/ Derived from Table 2. Annex 1.
3/  Not included in Analysis.
3J   ksnariaL 1:   IncreascA in maintanence level from 85% of optimum
to optimum level - increase in pavement life from
nine to 10 years.
scmnaria 2:   Increase in maintenance level from 70% of optimu
to 85% of the optimu level - increase in pavement
life from eight to nine years.
Seenar1j 3: Increase in maintenance level from 55% of optimum
to 70% of the optimum level increase in pavement
life from seven to eight years.



- 82 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Overview of Human Resource Planning and Development
Introduction
1.       This annex describes the Personnel and Training organization in MPW
and MOT and reviews the institution adequacy and capability in the light of
the training needs.
A. Ministry of Public Works
I. Existing Situation
Personnel and Training Organization
2.      A "Steering Committee for Public Works Sector Training" includes
representatives of MPW and the public enterprises (contractors and consul-
tants) of the sector. This committee decides on the pluri-annual training
plan to be implemented by the sector based on the proposal presented by the
MPW planning and training directorate taking into account the training pro-
vided by the Ministries in charge of Education. The committee meets on an
ad-hoc basis.
3.       In MPW (Chart 1) the personnel sub-directorate is under the admin-
istration directorate. It includes a personnel administration division and
a job classification division. This sub-directorate employs three profes-
sionals and  14 administrative staff.  The career development (training)
sub-directorate is under the planning and staff development directorate. It
also includes two divisions.  The first is responsible for upgrading and
retraining of personnel employed by the sector:  organizing  training of
instructors; administering trainees sent abroad; and following up of train-
ing and apprenticeship implemented by the sector entreprises. The second is
responsible for monitoring the adminstration and operation of basic training
institutions under MPW responsibility, including organizing entrance exams;
preparing budgets; and preparing curricula. This sub-directorate is headed
by a chemical engineer, assigned to this position in the middle of 19d6, who
is assisted by two division chiefs and six administrative staff. Personnel
aJsigned to both subdirectorates need upgrading training in the field of
human resources planning and development.



83 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
4.       In the regional DIBs, the scope of the personnel function is very
limited.   Only skilled workers are administered by DIB management and no
training (other than on-the-job practice) is conducted.
5.       In the public enterprises, personnel management and training is the
responsibility of a specific directorate. In the major enterprises there is
also a training officer in each separate branch unit.
Personnel Management
6.       Personnel management is static.  Present policy does not provide
encouragement for staff to increase their productivity and expertise even
for the personnel of the enterprises although (a) incentives are distributed
to individuals and working units, and (b) there is a directorate in MPW in
charge of the control of the enterprises, including setting up production
objectives and monitoring the performance of the enterprises. For several
reasons, the objectives are fixed low. For the time being, long-term fore-
cast of personnel needs are based on ratios and standards prevailing in
other countries (such as number of low level employees and technicians per
engineer). Annually, a list of the vacant posts is prepared and the gradu-
ates from MPW training institutions are assigned by order of merit to these
posts in MPW, DIBs and enterprises. Personnel are ranked based on their
education background and diploma; there is no obligation to rotate in order
to be promoted in the grade. For the time being, MPW is filling the vacan-
cies in its organization chart, without having implemented career develop-
ment streams, related to the posts ranked by level of expertise required.
In principle, promotion by internal examination is possible for technicians
in MPW, however, this procelure is presently not used due to the very low
education and skill level of candidates.
Education and Training
7.       Due to very large needs for qualified manpower and the lack of
specialized training institutions under the education ministries to meet
these needs, MPW established its own schools in the 1970s.  By 1986,  the
creation of training institutions under the Ministries of Higher Education
and Vocational Training, the unsuccessful result achieved for training of
low level technicians (contr6leurs) due to their low educational background,
the changes of profiles needed, resulting from administrative reorganiza-
tion, led MPW to review the scope of in-house training and to close unneeded
training institutions. MPW now operates only a public works engineering
school in Kouba (650 places, course duration:  5 years after high school)
and three vocational schools for high level technicians in Jijel, Mostaganen
and  Ouargla  (1000  seats,  course  duration:   3 years  after  junior high
school).  No pluri-annual training plan exists for upgrading MPW or DIB
personnel. Seminars for engineers are organized only infrequently and on an
ad-hoc basis by Kouba's engineering school.



- 84 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
8. The enterprises are obliged by law to submit their pluri-annual and
annual training plans to the Ministry of Vocational Education. The enter-
prises have to make use of existing training facilities, but they are also
encouraged to establish joint-ventures aimed at creating, cost-effective
training centers and providing instructors when common needs are identi-
fied.  INDEFE,1' an institute under the Ministry of Vocational Education,
financed under the Bank's Fifth Education project (Loan 1803-AL), assists
the enterprises, at their request, to prepare and implement their training
plans.
9. Improving the present situation calls for the following measures:
a)   training structure - the "steering committee for public works sec-
tor training" should meet on a regular basis; the personn,l and
training functions, in particular at MPW's central level have to be
strengthened; a training policy has to be designed and implemented;
b)   personnel motivation - ways to improve personnel motivation should
be tested and implemented, such as career development plans speci-
fying promotion through rotation, and improvement of the incentives
systems.
c)   qualified manpower needs - there is still a large demand for pro-
fessional and middle-level staff. MPN estimates that about 750
engineers, 1100 higher technicians and 800 technicians are needed
for the period 1986-1990. These large numbers are the result of
new vacancies, a backlog due to decentralization aggravated by the
increase of the number of DIBs from 33 to 48.  By 1990, this defi-
cit should be largely reduced by vacancies being filled by the
graduates  from MPW vocational institutions.   Systematic training
plans have to be designed and implemented to upgrade skills of
MPW's personnel; and
d)   quality of training in MPW's institutions - curricula need to be
improved and made more specific and relevant to the public works
sector activities; new streamings and specializations should be
introduced dealing with maintenance, laboratory and testing work,
surveying and use of computers. Also the skills of teachers re-
quire upgrading, and new teachers are needed.   Books,  didactic
materials, equipment and instruments are also required.
1/  IMDEFE:   Institut national  de promotion et  de  d6veloppement  de  la
formation professionnelle en entreprise et de l'apprentissage or
Enterprise Career Devilopment and Training Institute.



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
II. Project Component
10.      The project's human resources planning and development component
will include four parts: (i) strengthening the skills of MPW teachers and
instructors and training of new ones; (ii) strengthening the skills of DPGER
staff, field laboratories and DIB engineers and technicians in road mainte-
nance management, and in preparation and supervision of maintenance works
performed by contracts; (iii) strengthening the URC's capability in planning
and engineering pavement strengthening works and in supervising and training
DIB and field laboratory staff in site supervision of major works contracts;
and (iv) procuring books and other training materials for MPW's schools.
11.      Dialogue between the Bank and MPW will continue to define ways and
implement solutions aimed at improving human resources function in a more
systematic way within the framework of this project and under other projects
as required.
B. Ministry of Transport
I. Existing Situation
Personnel and Training Organization
12.      The personnel and training organization in NOT is similar to the
one described above for MPW. A "Steering Committee for the Transportation
Sector" is supposed to decide on the pluri-annual training plan to be imple-
mented by the sector as a whole, based on the proposal of the training sub-
directorate. However, until now no such training plans have yet been pre-
pared by that sub-directorate.  The Steering Committee meets only on an
ad-hoc basis. At NOT's headquarters level there are both personnel and
training sub-directorates. Only very recently two engineers who were pre-
viously respectively assigned to the ports directorate,, under MOT's general
ports inpector and to Algiers port, as deputy director, have been appointed
to head these sub-directorates. These two engineers bring some val!4 exper-
ience to these posts.  Both have participated in the preparation of the
training plan for the personnel of all the ports in Algeria, worKing with a
Bank mission in June 1984. They have since attended training seminars and
courses organized by UNCTAD, have been involved in the Trainmar program (at
the regional training center in Tunis). The new head of the training sub
directorate has also worked as an UNCTAD expert in a mission which assessed
the training needs and prepared the training plan for the port personnel of
an african country. MOT is now committed to training and is willing to get
Bank assistance in that field. Strengthening of the training
sub-directorate has been initiated, and both the directors of the Planning
and Training Directorate and of the Land Transportation Directorate are
villing to get results through training.



- 86 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
Education and Training Institutions
13.      Three institutions are o erated under MOT's supervision:  (i) The
National Land Transport School - (ENATT) in which operations technicians
and general inspectors for land transportation are trained (courses duration
of 2 and 4 years after high school respectively); (ii) the Maritime Insti-
tute  1' (ISM) where shipping personnel are trained; and (iii) the Hydro-
meteorological Training and Research Institute 3' (IHFR).  ENATT needs to
be reorganized, after personnel needs are defined for the land transporta-
tion subsector. Also, the curricula will have to be updated.
14.      The railways authorIty trains annually an average of 400 middle
level technicians, and 900 skilled workers in its 18 training centers. How-
ever, an important effort is required during the coming years to train in
Algeria high level staff, and middle level technicians, in order to replace
retiring personnel.
15.      MOT operates also one training center for bus drivers and mechan-
ics; a "center of pilot maintenance" should be opened in 1987 for training
of mechanics.
II. Prolect Component
16.      The project's human resources planning and development component
would be directed at training of MOT personnel, and of personnel of trans-
port enterprises (road and railway) overseen by MOT.  The component will
include four parts: (i) strengthening MOT's personnel management;
(ii) strengthening skills of personnel assigned to the personnel and train-
ing departments, divisions and units of the sector; (iii) preparing and
implementing training programs in the fields of transport, equipment mainte-
nance and spare parts management, road safety, fuel economy, project evalua-
tion and management, including overseas training visits for key staff; and
(iv) procuring books and other training materials for MOT's schools.
1   L'Ecole Nationale des Transports Terrestres
3' L'Institut Superieur Maritime
3' L'Institut Hydrom6t6orologique de Formation et de Recherche



MINISTRY OF PUBLIC IWRKS
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION PERSONNEL
INVENTORY OF EXISTING PERSONNEL AND NEEDS
Adminis-
Organization              Personnel       Unit          Deputy   Section           En* Inemrs                   Tech-     Junior     Adminis-    trative
Unit                 Needs   Exist-   head    1/                head   high level middle 1.  others        nician       Techn.     trator      staff
ing   exist.   j  exist.  I exist.  I  exist.  I  exist. I  exist. I    exist. t    exist.     exist. I   exist. _
Minister (Sec.)               4      2                                                                                                               2   t2
Secretary General             5      4     1                                      +1                                                     1           2
General Inspection            9      5     I                                      +1               2   +1                                1    +1     1   +1
Cabinet                      14     11     1                                                                                                        10   +3
Planning and Staff
Development
Directorate                46     19     1            3    +1   2    +7        +4         +6         +2                                     +3    13   +3
Legal (Regulatory.
Contracts and
Claims) Directorate        21     20     1            2         3    +2         +1        -1                                           2          12   -1
Administration
Directorate                40     56     1            2    +1   2    +4                                                                1    -1    52   -22
Control
Directorate                23     15     1            3         1   +5                    +3                  1                                    9
Highway Directorate          27     21     1            3              f6               1  t5                   7    -6     2      -2         +2     7   +l
Airports and                                                                                                                                                      o
Structures
Directorate                18      7     1            1   +1         f4                   +2                  1    +1     2     -2          +2     2   t3
Maritime
infrastructure
Directorate                19      7     1            1    1         +4                   +4                  1                        1           3   +3
1.upport Services            82     87                                                                                                              87   -5
TOTAL               308    253    10            15    f4  8    f32        +7    1 +19       2   +3      1     -S     4     -4    6    +
I/ Such as secretary seneral, inspector, director.
jt: Additional needs (+) surplus (-).
SmrMe: Ministry of Public Works. .7uly 1986.
H!



DIRECTORATE OF BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE - 013
INVE3nORY OF ENGINEERS AND TECHNICIANS
(OPERATIONAL STAFF)
Designation     Director              Eninmer              Tech-     Designation         Director           EnsinWer                Tech-
of OIES                    High   CooP V/Middle 2J Total  nician     of OIBs                     H1gth  Coop I/Middle I/ Total  nician
Level         Level                                                   Level         Level
1. Adrar          1        2       /      K       3        7          2S. Constantine   1         4      I       6        II      46
*2. Chlef          1        4       /      4       a       32         t26. Medea          1         Z      I       I         4     26
3. Laghouat       1        2       /      2       4        7          27. Mostaganem    1          4      I       I         6     27
4. Cua-El -ku*ashi I               /      2       3       20          28. W'Sila         I         2      2       2         6     lI
*S. Batna          1        3       /      1       4       32         *29. sscara         1         6      /       I         7    27
6.DeJata W                 8       /      3       11      33          *30. Ouargla       1         2      J       I         3    20
7. Biskra         1        3       /      2       5       12          31. Ormn           I         S      1       S         9     32
8. echar          1        /       /      3               1 is         2. El-Bayad&      1         I              4         S      2
9. Blida          1        7       /      3      10       27          33. Illii          1                                         9
10. Bouira         1        7       3      I      11       30          34. B.B.A.         1        4      /       I          5     19
11. TAN            1        3       J      I       4        5          3S. Bouirdes       1         5      /       2         7     23
12. Tebessa        1        4       J      J       4       16          36. El-Tarf        1         3      /       I         4     17
'13. Tl1wcen        1        5       I      I       6       26          37. Tindouf        1         /      /       2         2      2
14. Tiaret         1        2       2      J       4        9          38. Tisssilt    1           I      /       3         4     Is
1. Tiai-&izou      1        6       1      3      10       40          39. El-Ouad        1         2      f       2         4      8
16. Alger          1       14       1      3      18       30          40. Khndhela       1         4      J       J         4     1S
17. tjelfa         1        3       I      /       3        4          41. S-AUras        1         2      /       /         4      7
18. Jijel          1        6       3      /       9       4S          42. Tipa           1         5      /       3         8     22                    0
19. Setif          1        I       I      4       S       32          43. Mile           1         3      /       4         7     32                    OD
20 Sa1da           1        2       /      4       6        1S         44. A. DOefla      1         6      J       J         6     22                     1
21. Skikdi         1        2       1      S       4       25          4S. Sam            1         1      /       3         4      6
22. S.B. Abbes     I        I       J      3       4       13          46. Teou0chent    '          4      J       2         6     14
23. Aaba           1        3       /      1       4       17          47. Ghirdaia       1         2      2       3         7      7
24. Guelm          1        4       I      l       6       14          48. Relizne        1         2      J       I         3     19
6ra  Tnti.       U48       163    20       92       27S    930
c=       =c      =       ==       c      =5
I/ Coophrants - Forelgn Technical Assistants
I/ Middle level - Graduates of a four-year enineerins course
S       Mnistry of Public Works, October 19".



IMISTR  OF PUBLIC WS
INVEMTORY OF ENGNES AND TECHNICIANS IN THE ENTPRISES OF THE SECTOR
Existing  Personnel              Enineer
Enterprises          units      Total         Hiah Level        Middle      External          Total       ToCtUctiCl
Sector       Coop. Level          ecoruit-
Mot
3aals an  AtrNort  Suhsactor
Sonatro                11         3400        6                    S            26             34             11
tPTR/Center            02         400         2                                 4               6              7
EPTRIeast              07        60          4                                 9              is              9
EPTR/South east        03          500        4                    1             1              5              3
SITP                   05         900         S                    1             3              9             is
EPTP/Alger             03         920         6                                                 6             11
EPTP/Oran              05         1360        6                    1             2              9              5
EPTP/Constentine       02          340        3                                                 3             10
EPTP/Smn Saaa          02         400         1           1        2             1              5              2
EPTP/Sidi Bil Abbes    03         420         5                                                 5              4
PTP/Tiaret             02          471        3                                  1              4              7
EPTP/aed~r             02         200                              3             2              S
EPTP/Ghardia           03         220         1                     1            2              4
"arIimi -n Parts 5adsecetr
Sonatra                05                     a                                  6             14              1
Sotri                  04                                          4             S             12              1                                             1
Sotranest              04                     2                     1           10             13
Stadlc and Commtruction Control of Bridges Subsector
Enapta                 04
Eneroa                 04                     2                    1             2             5               4
Sno.                   3                      2                                  5             7               3
Seror/Tle.cen          03                     6                    2            14             22              5
Engoa                  03                     4           1        2            17             24
Seroest                0
Tedintcal StdiUes mid Labortories Subsctsr
LMTP                   01                     1S          2        2             6             25             19
LTP/conter             *                      4                                 22             26              3
LTP/west               05                     12                   3            11             26
LTP/east               04                     11          1         1        .22               35             1s
LTP/soutt%             02                     S                                  7             12
LEN                    01                     a                    2            13             23
SETI ( Saeti)                                 30                   3             5             38              4
SET Oran               01                                                                                     12
Set Annaba             01                     12                   3                           15              4
Set Setif              01
Source: Ministry of Public Works. September 1986
' not existins yet



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Previous Bank Projects and Recent Davelopments
Previous Bank Proiects
1.       In the transport sector, Algeria has received seven loans from t;ie
Bank, for a total amount of US$495 million, to finance four projects for
roads,  two for ports and one for railways.  The  First,  Second and  Third
Highway Projects (Loans 912-AL, 1407-AL and 1683-AL) have been completed and
fully disbursed.   The  implementation of  the Fourth Highway  Project  (Loan
1892-AL), approved in 1980, is about two years behind schedule because of
delays in bidding and evaluating alternative bids for construction of a major
component.
2.       The First Highway 2roject (Loan 912-AL), comprising improvements to
84 km of high priority road sections and a substantial program of highway pre-
investment and maintenance studies, resulted in (a) a highway development plan
based on an inventory of about  7,000 km of principal  roads;  (b) detailed
engineering for about 400 km of road rehabilitation; and (c) a comprehensive
study of road maintenance requirements (operational, management and institu-
tional). The project on the whole went well and served as the basis for the
Second Highway Project (Loan 1407-AL), under which organizational change,
separating housiug and urbanization activity from highway infrastructure at
the  regional  level,  and  reforms  of  the  maintenance  organization  were
implemented. In support of this institutional change, the training of opera-
tors and mechanics was started while engineers and equipment managers were
sent abroad for maintenance related training. The Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) also gained experience in International Competitive Bidding and in
contract supervision and management of a major road project. However, delays
in bidding, rebidding, awarding contracts and obtaining approvals delayed
project completion three years.
3.       The Third Highway Project  (Loan 1683-AL) supported  (a) a two-year
tranche (1980-81) of a five-year maintenance program, with purchase of equip-
ment and continued training; (b) a two-year tranche of a paved road strength-
ening program, which had been prepared by technical assistance under the
Second Highway Project; (c) technical assistance to MPW in the preparation of
feasibility studies for the development program; and (d) another major north-
south road improvement project. Progress was made in developing and equipping
a force account maintenance work force (which continued under the next



- 91 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
highway project) against a background of increasing decentralization and
proliferation  of  regional  authorities.   Both pavement  strengthening  and
major road improvement were delayed in starting by lengthy contract bidding
and approval procedures as well as by a major earthquake, which diverted
resources from project contracts to reconstruction.  In the end, inadequate
management of one local contractor also contributed to the delay in comple-
tion which totalled three years.
4.       The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1892-AL) is ongoing.  It comprised
(a) continued  support  for  the  next  two-year  tranche  of  maintenance
(1982-83);   (b) a  second  two-year  tranche  of  pavement  strengthening;
(c) improvement of a critical section of another major north-south road; and
(d) technical assistance for construction supervision, maintenance training,
assistance to the road construction industry and rural road studies. Delays
have again stemmed from lengthy bidding and contract award procedures and
substantial construction quantity increases.  In addition, recent develop-
ments (paras 2.13 aid 2.29) have markedly changed the nature of the mainte-
nance organization, interrupting the acquisition of equipment and terminat-
ing equipment-related training. The project civil works are expected to be
completed by the end of 1988, two years late.
5.       The Railway Project (Loan 996-AL), designed to support the rail-
way's modernization program within the 1974-77 Develupment Plan, consisted
mainly of renewal of motive power, rolling stock, rehabilitation of track
and technical assistance.  Execution of the physical project  components,
including procurement was completed on schedule. Several important studies,
however, were not completed at the scheduled closing date which was, in
consequence,  extended.   Disagreement  between  the Bank and  the  railways
concerning  the  upgrading  to  double  track  standard  the  Ramdane-Jamal
Constantine  line,  with doubtful justification,  led to cessation of Bank
lending to the railway.
6.       The  Bank  participated  in  financing  a  major  port  at  Bethouia
(Loan 995-AL), designed  for  the  export  of  Liquified Natural  Gas.   The
implementation of an envisaged Second Port Project at Jijel (Loan 1427-AL)
evaluated in 1976 did not materializ because of the postponement of the
restoration of an associated new steel complex. The loan was then cancelled
in 1980.
Recent Developments in Road Maintenance
7.       Although considerable progress in improving maintenance was real-
ized during the 1980-1983 period, the procedure of paying f'r the services
of the equipment pool, from maintenance or construction budgets into a
budget-free account (compte hors de budget), led to problems.  The Govern-
ment equipment pools were able to accumulate substantial operating surpluses
in these accounts, whieh were free of the normal budget controls, and to



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
invest these surpluses in additional equipment, buildings or projects not
necessarily directly connected with the purpose for which the equipment
pools had been formed. A similar state of affairs also developed in other
sectors who had budget-free funds and the total amounts of the generated
surpluses were snowballing.  The abolition of all budget-free accounts in
1984 was grounded on re-establishing control of public revenue and fiscal
discipline.  It led to an order from the President's office, at the start of
1984, which required the force-account equipment pools to become local,
state-owned, roadworks enterprises (ETRs - Entreprises de Travaux Routiers)
which drastically changed the organization for road maintenance.
8.       All  equipment,  workshops,  operators,  mechanical  staff  and  most
lower/middle management staff were affected. Regional (Wilaya) administra-
tiona were re3ponsible for implementing the change and it was left to the
regional  services  (DIB's) of the MPW to work out suitable procedures for
performing road maintenance work by contract without any prior training to
reorient the regional managers and field supervisors on their new role of
planning, contracting and supervising works performed by contract. In fact,
MPW issued no procedural guidelines but waited, instead, to see what systems
would emerge in the different Wilayas.
9.       Training of equipment  operators  and mechanics  at  the  Bethouia
center was also affected.  Until then, a responsibility of MPW to support
its regional force account operations, with the change in organization
training became the concern of the newly-formed and older contractors. The
training operation dwindled and closed down in early 1986.
10.      In addition,  this basic  organizational  change  closely coincided
with the creation of the 17 new Wilayas (para. 1.03) and the resulting re-
definition of internal political boundaries. As the internal administration
of each Wilaya is standardized, new DIB managements were needed, subdivision
staffing  remaining  essentially  unchanged.   Also  the  newly  created  ETRa
remained with the Wilaya in which they were based, leaving the additional
DIBs to make their own arrangements.
11.      Understandably, results have not been uniform and there are indica-
tions that some deterioration in maintenance is setting in.  The proposed
project would address finding appropriate solutions including, in
particular, building on regional experience during 1984-86 to develop uni-
form procedural guidelines, improve quality control and management and re-
establish an appropriate division of planning responsibility between
regional and central maintenance units.   In addition,  the project  would
restart forward momentum to integrate pavement strengthening and maintenance
into a comprehensive pavement management system.



- 93 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Recent Developments in Railways and Ports
12.      In January 1987, MCT expressed its interest in preparing a Bank-
financed railway project of which a high priority component would be the
long overdue rehabilitation of about 400 km of the most heavily travelled
sections of the railway network. At the same time, MOT also expressed it&
interest in possible Bank financing for a program aimed at improving and
modernizing the capacity of existing ports in Algeria. Both of these initi-
atives are in keeping with transport priorities recognized in the recent
Plan Review exercise. Due to the time required for related detailed engine-
ering, studies and the start of training, financing for several of these
activities has been included in the project.



- 94 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRhISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWA', PROJECT
List of Project File Documents
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1   Transport Sector Memorandum (White Cover), April, 1982.
A.2   Review  of  1985-89  Development  Plan-Main  Report  (White  Cover),
December 1986.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   Data on road condition and traffic by itinerary, maintenance quanti-
ties and expenditures in 1986 and proposed maintenance program for
1987 in seven pilot wilayas:  Batna, Bouira, Chlef, Mascara, Medea,
Tlemcen, and Ouargla.
B.2   Road  Maintenance   Budget   Estimate,   Ministry  of  Public  Works,
August 1986 (In French).
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1   Unite de Renforcement des Chaussees (URC):  Projet de Termes de RWf6-
rence, Octobre 1986.
C.2   Mise en place d'une Cellule de Planification et de Gestion de i'Entre-
tien Routier: Projet de Termes de Reference.
C,3   Data on First-Year Pavement Strengthening Program, Jean Pierre Noel
(Consultant), July 1986.
- RN 3 Wilaya de Biskra
- RN 4 Wilaya d'Ain Defla
- RN 5 Wilaya de Bordj Bou Arreridj
C.4   Programme d'Entretien:   Cadre  d'Evaluatior. Economique,  Jean  Pierre
Noel (Consultant), July 1986.
C.5   Budgeting, accounting and Auditing Procedures, Jean de Gryse (Consul-
tant), August 1986.
C.6   Modele du Rapport Geotechnique - RN4:  A. Garaud (Consultant), October
1986.



- 95 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
C.7   Report on Training Component and transmittal letter to MPW,  J. M.
Verdier, November 1986.
C.8   Draft Terms of Reterence:  Road Freight Transport Study and Training
Proposed for DYT, C. de Castro, December 1986.
C.9   Convention a Commande entre le Ministere des Travaux Publics et l'Or-
ganisme National de Controle Technique des Travaux Publics (CTTP).



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementati'n Schedule
1987                         1988                       1989                         199
|        ~~~DESCRIPTION                      J1987MI IASOII  ~J|FMAI  J lJ1A IS 010N|D JFMA 1J98A[9                        ONI JTFISAIIi  iA Is L1
PAUWS T STRENGTNENING - PBOJECTS
First Tranche:
Complete Engineering and Bid Documents
Das Rewiew                                     thUS
Invite and Prepare Bids
Ebaluate and Award Contracts                              D_si
Construection                                                   s,muna   unnunnn n3 n ns3u3n
Second Tranche
Idektification and Feasibility Studies             nnn     u_
Completc Engineering and Bid Docusents               hnsunu_ubs            s
nk Review                                                      *mainum .am
Invite and Prepare 8fds                                                          33'."
Evaluate and Award Contracts
Contruction         *                                                                        JnSnn  sunnsimuSnnnnUrWUUUI
Third Tranche
tdentification and Feasibility Studies                           _u3  nw  uo  '
Complete Engineering and Bid  hcsents !tnf
Bank Rev'iew                                                                                             (Third tranche   G  e(rnent Financed)
PAWEMW  sTaUUGang         -  Eom OAGT (cIP)
Detailed Eagineering
Refine nUetaods and Procedures          _ __   n
nefine Standard Specifications
and liddia  Docuents                                nnnnnn              nnnn"u          nn
Dle te and Train Regiona. Engineering
Enterprise  and Laboratories
Samervision and Control
Supervision of works by CTTP                                       u  nnn n n  ,umnumun3n
Test Model Forx and Standard Practice                                     33u, n3nn        hnu
Finalize Form  and Operatioval Instructions                                                    3.""
Dissminate and Train Regional Engineering
Enterprises and laboratories                                                                   nttn InnnnSnnnnnnn_nnn
Quarterlv Reporting                                       muut     ug                    a3           *1    133   333 1_335
0_ 
0



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PP- SL'CT
Implemnentation Schedule
DESCRIPTION                 _    F MAN   3 J A sO ND JtIFIAJMT3IJAA toINID J.F:A                        3iAtSOND  [            r,2 ;J9iA1SlotN,D
MAINrDKAKE PLANNING AND MANAGUUCNT
Draw up Overall Trainitg Program                              gn n 3
Maintenance Planning Methodoloag
BasIc Data Gathering                                *Utshssvsaw
Develop Maintenance Inventory Formt (RIF)           n"sZ.
Disesminate MIF and Train DID Staff                       nnnnSnnn55
Develop Maintenance Planning and
Contract Management System
Train DID Staff In Applying System                                         n n nn n nn
Prepare 1988 Maintenance Program                                 nn n n
Review 1989 Maintenance Proposals                                                             5Vn5n1
Maintenance TechnoloRy
Prepare Provisional Guidelines
Prepare Definitive Guidelines
Guidelines for Contracting ama
Force-Account Marks
Seminars on Applying Guidelines                                                                           ""m e.nnamews#"&
Record and Store Cost Data                           annn.                      n5nnnn                       nn1nn
Record and Store Borrow Pit and
quarry Data
Suvervision and Control
Develop Standard Testing Procedures
aod Contract N_nagenat Procedures                         sSSSu n                      unhhuhnnns
Nanitor Execution of Maintenance                             shsmss.g  ng5nssss555gsg55555s555355in5 m555nn3555nn551s5ss555155
guarterly 8eportinR                                                see     saf    Ms.  gels   ge    1ell  lea         a"t     n      son
OQ a
o0 
iih
I-



ALGERIA
SIAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementati-on Schedule
DESCRIPTION            -T _                                                          F                          sFA U.IJ JIA          iJ S 0 ND  1FF  M1 1SM T    ID J?IM?J!A1SlO  R ID
TRANSPORT SECTOR STUDIES
Comprehensive Transport Study
Complete Terms of Reference                   sancnen,
Establish Team Algerian Experti                       eaM3n
Engage Consultants
Conduct Study                                                     *uIEflwm  331a.sggeSguua.163sSIUgBII I uB33333th33
Road User Charge Evaluation
Complete Terms of Reference                  seist
Engage Consultants                                 s ss.;essuu
Conduct Study                                                      sasuisn  SSmsussgsusSusg,uuUus,USU,si
ighusay Safety and Accident Prevention
Diagnose Existing Situation                        *n
Complete Term of Reference                         $"age#D
Engage Consultents                                      let talonesmn
Conduct Study                                                        Busse' ss.sgs                                (See acquisition a  equipment below)
Prepare Railroad Track Rehabilitation
Detailed Egineering
Egage CoCPultants                                   *n esnrtntnnnan
Prepare Engineering and Bid Docusents                                      sIss
Define Bidding Program                                                           *nn n,
Prequalify Contractors                                     unumntssmsu o                                         (For financing und r proposed railway project)
Port Eauipment Jodernization Study
Complete Tess of Reference                     usufhas
ngDage Consultants                                      hmusu
Conduct Study                                                      nnnn1as sni                                   (For financing und r proposed port project)
Prepare Detailed Engineering for Port
of Aluiers Container Terminal
Complete Terms of Reference                  n nn n
Engage Consultants                                  nsuun n
Conduct Study 1ontrctoc                                                                                           (For financing und r proposed port projeco)
Prequalify Contractors
Study of Maritime Shipping nodel
Prepare Terms of Reference                                                  unen
Engage Consultants                                                               *n nmnnnnn 1 1
Conduct Study                                                                                   nsnms   esssus0 cr
Install Model (eventual)I
__L___                                                      .           |                                                  a tz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
O4



AL.;ER TA
STAFF APPRAISAI, REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
IMSCR I 11 1T ON                 7FF'MiATM IJlJTSIOiNTD   !  !              F11588F tI                                          , I  JIF!MIA 1OIN D JF M    I    9 1    T
_________________A_MJ_9_A_____[                        J  F   M AIM  J   AIS IO1NI             N                              M    .    A O . IN h
TRAIN ING
Ministry of Public Works
Complete CTTP Contract Including
Training Responsibilities                    "s183
Designate Training Coordinator                        sg
Prepare Overall Training Schedule                        s,snass.ssas
List Didactic Docume-ntation and
Equipment Requirements                                          tas              (See acquisition sched ule below)
Conduct Training                                                      Assssa tgSigStsgslsisiSsgStiii
Ministry of Transport
Complete Terms of Refernce for Technical
Assistance for Training and Road Transpor           60asasas
Engage Consultants                                    sass
Consultants Services,                                           2221@|8""""" """|||""|"|0a"w*ws"""aa||"s*|Zsw"s "eo*twsa"s*"""""||aIRb as sss9s.ss
Complete Terms of Reference for SNTF                   auliSt
Engage Consultants                            I       ,s.ssnsngsss
Consultants Services                          |                      sssam.suv ssuuusnsnsaussssssusns             ITo be continled under proposed r;.ilwav proje,tl
Complete Terms of Reference for Other
Assistance Services                                    'as'l
Engage Consultants                                       ssssu    nn na ss
Consultants Services                                                    81110B  sass.  ii .asssssa.,sasss,si BlUSSaSWSiisssSsiSflsssasaseigstssssa
List Didactic Documentation and
Equipment Requirements                                           as.ln,e           See acquisition schec ule below)
ACQUISITION OF VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT AND
DIDACTIC DOCUMENTAT1ON AND EQUIPMENT
Vehicles for Project Use
Define Specifications                               Massa$
Obtain and Evaluate Quotations                           asisesla
Purchase and Take Delivery                                    sass...
Didactic Documentation and Equipment
Bank Review of List                                                     5555
Place Orders                                                              n5  sa                    seass
Purchase and Take Delivery                                                     sasass                            55555t1555 -
Vehicle Inspection Equipment.
Prepare Specifications                                                                      Dssssssm a
Obtain and Evaluate Quotations                                                                      siss   iss
Purchase and Take Delivery                     I                                                                                        _                                O s



- tOO -
Table 2
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1'
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Quarter                     Quarterly                Cumulative
1987
June 30, 1987                           0                        0
1988
September 30, 1987                     3.0                      3.0
December 31, 1987                      5.0                      8.0
March 31, 1988                         5.0                     13.0
June 30, 1988                          9.0                     22.0
1989
September 30, 1988                     9.0                     31.0
December 31, 1988                      9.0                     40.0
March 31, 1989                         9.0                     49.0
June 30, 1989                          9.0                     58.0
1990
September 30, 1989                     9.0                     67.0
December 31, 1989                      9.0                     76.0
March 31, 1990                         9.0                     85.0
June 30, 1990                          8.0                     93.0
1991
September 30, 1990                     8.0                    101.0
December 31, 1990                      5.0                    106.0
March 31, 1991                         5.0                    111.0
June 30, 1991                          4.0                    115.0
1992
September 30, 1991                     3.0                    118.0
December 31, 1991                      2.0                    120.0
'   Corresponds to the implementation schedule and does not reflect the
disbursement of an amount up to $15 million from the loan account to
the special account which could take place starting the second quarter
of FY 1988.
Source: Mission estimates
March 1987



ALGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Organization of Ministry of Public Works
|CENTRAL GOVENMN
MINISTER OF PuBLIC WORKS                        L------                                                 WALU
INSPECTOR GENERAL  ~~~S6CRTAIMAT                                                                                  ---        ---
-I r-__L--I r-~1--
SECRETAQY GENERAL                                                                     DIRECTORATE OF   I    LOCAL ROAD
It BASiC INFRASTRUCTURE I I CONTRACTORS  |
-  L    (_15DB)       I      [ETR)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  -  ,- -  - -- E ,lI l, 
DIRECTORATES    STAFFADENELOPME             LEGAL           ADMINISTRATION          CONTROL        L    NETWORK              STRUCTURES ANF|ASTRUCTURE
SUB-DItECTORATES -  Studies and      -Regultory and       _ Personnel             Plr Equipment   -Hghway          _    Airport         _     Port
Research1           Legat Reviews     -  Budstets             and MaintenOnce      ieveontrenI         Infrastructure       Infrastructure
- New                  ContrJc-ts anct                        - Performonce and   -Rod                     Structures and       Marimsrn
Investments         Claims            -Public lsocial]        Cost Evaluation        aintennce          Brides               Sintn
Relations                                              I E                                                                                    _
St9atistics                                                -      Enterprise Organ     Rood Projects
and Records                                                   ization and Controt    and Standrad-:                                        I
of Skilled Lat>or                 I                                         I                                             t
Career                                                             I            -
Development                                                                        Projects    A
r- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                r-- L--
NATIONAL LABORATORY-PUBLIC WORKS  -I                          REGIONAL SOILS I
I            ~~~AND     I
MATERIALS LABS
r-. L-    ----rj                                                                           Legend
I  CONSULTANTS _-                 STATE OWNED
NATIONAL AND  I                                                   Contr  ActArtoarnents
   REGIONAL ROAD_                                                   Oversight Icion
CONTRACTORS I                                                                                                  o
L                                                         - _-_   Regixnal Rep2resecita
Source Decree No. 85-132 of May 21. 1985.
Note ()1 Not fuly staffed.
(2) Translations reflect sense rather than exact tifles.                                                                                                       World Bank-30874 2



ALGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Regional Government [Wilayal Organization
WALI
INSPECTOR         ~~~EXECUTIVE              SECRZETARY               5C~AI1DiACIF
GENERAL           ~~~~COUNCIL               GENERZAL                SCEAITDIACIF
F -               I                    II                                                                                  -
Divisions    E-CONOMIC               HUMAN                 NATURAL            PRODUCTION            HE ALTH AND         INFRASTRUCTURE          GENERAL
PLANNING             RESOURCES             RESOURCES           AND SERVICES          POPULATION         AND INVESTMENTS          SE'VICES
Serv;ces     Regionol              Educaon           -  Aicuilurol         - Industry.              HeIll'               Ways arcd            RegulQtori
Planning             Planning              Development          HandiOIats                                 Means                (LegoIl
(Feedbackl                                 and Tourism           Socto'
Commerce                                -  Fishing                                    Projects             Basic                 Comn unut
& Prices             Testing-Acad-         Development       - Industrial                                  Introstructure 1     Services
emic & Sports                             Coordinotion and 1    Labor and
- Waler                 Standards       I    Employment            Transport            Pewsonrne
-  Teacher               Resources                                                                            P  Itannrng
Training                                  P post anc       t                          Urban and
Water Supply         Telecommunt -   I                          Housing              B Budget anct
Vocational           ancd Droinage        cation           J                                               Control
Trainig                                                    I|t
- Forests and                           I
-  Youth and            Environment
Sports
Culture                                  r,
Legend                                                                    I   Local
I   Contractors    -
Oversight Function                                            L      _
Contract A-rangements
Source Decree No 86-30 of February 18. 1986
Note (tl Not fully implemented
(2) Translations renlect sense rather than exact transations                                                                         World Bank-30874 I



_IBRD 19890R
ALGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al-ERA                                                                                                     _                                      A -D I
FEBRUARY 1987



