Document of       Fr - 7
FILEt                            The World Bank
iLE  '.OP  r   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            i          i
Report No. P-1919-INE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 7, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            =         Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100             =         US$0.241
Rp 1 million       =         US$2,410
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS        =  National Planning Agency
Cipta Karya     =  Directorate General of Housing,
Building, Planning, and Urban
Development in the Ministry of
Public Works and Electric Power
DKI             =  Special Provincial Government of
Jakarta
GOI             =  Government of Indonesia
IGGI            =  Inter-Governmental Group for
Indonesia
IPEDA           =  National Urban Property Tax
KIP             =  Kampung Improvement Program
NMB             =  National Mortgage Bank
NUDC            =  National Urban Development Corporation
Repelita I      =  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969-74)
Repelita II     =  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974-79)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $52.5 million to
help finance a Second Urban Development Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including four and a half years of grace, with interest
at 8.7 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /_
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia "Public Sector Investment
and Financial Resources in Indonesia" of May 24, 1976 (1187-IND) evaluated
and analyzed Indonesia's public sector investment program in relation to
the resources likely to be available in the next three years. Country data
are shown in Annex I.
3.        In most respects, Indonesia's economic performance over the last
several years has been impressive. GNP growth has averaged 7.5 percent
despite the ups and downs of the international economy, to which Indonesia,
being an open economy, is vulnerable. The rates of investment and national
savings have risen rapidly, and net foreign transfers have correspondingly
declined as a proportion of GNP. Agriculture output has expanded at an
average rate of 4 to 5 percent (with rice production expanding in step),
which must be regarded as a very satisfactory agricultural growth rate.
Modern industry has been set up, and production of fertilizer and cement is
expanding at a rate that is expected to make the country self-sufficient
in the next two or three years. Transport, power and telecommunication
systems and other infrastructure have been improved and strengthened.     In
short, in its third year of the Second Development Plan (1974-79), Indonesia's
economy is basically robust and provides a sharp contrast to the situation
less than a decade ago.
4.        Indonesia, however, is still a very poor country.    The increase in
oil income due to successive price increases in the past few years, though
substantial and valuable, amounted only to about $20 per capita. The popu-
lation growth rate, with a declining death rate, is rising and is currently
estimated at 2.5 percent, and population pressure on Java has been growing.
Substantial new employment opportunities have been created but much more
/L This part is substantially the same as that included in the President's
Report on the Transmigration Project, June 25, 1976 (P-1885-IND).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
needs to be done to provide employment to new entrants into the labor force
and to reduce the existing unemployment and underemployment. General nutri-
tion standards are far from adequate and real wage rates for unskilled
labor are still among the lowest in the region and have shown only a modest
improvement. The Government is committed to the alleviation of these prob-
lems. Projects to develop Sumatra, Kalimantan, and Sulawesi, ameliorate
the lot of the poor farmers, encourage self-help in rural development and
improve general living conditions are receiving the Government's closest
attention. Compared to the First Development Plan (1969-74), the strategy
in the Second Plan is much more socially oriented.
5.        The country's resource position, balance of payments and the Govern-
ment's budgetary situation have been dominated in the last two to three years
by the developments in the oil sector. First, there were the successive
increases in the price of oil in 1973 and 1974, which resulted in its quad-
rupling to $12.60 per barrel within a matter of months. With this increase,
by mid-1974 the balance of payments and budgetary position of the Government
appeared to have improved sustantially. A large increase in the foreign
exchange reserves and, for the first time, in 1974/75 /1 a substantial budget
surplus amounting to Rp 325 billion (about $800 million) were anticipated.
6.        In the course of the year, the Government adjusted its expenditure
plans. Most items in the development budget were revised upwards, some very
substantially, to utilize the prospective surplus. On the current expenditure
side, a large and needed increase in the civil servants' salaries was granted.
Over the first six months of the fiscal year, the country's foreign exchange
reserves registered an increase of $650 million from a level of $930 million
at the start of 1974/75.
7.        In October 1974, however, the first signs appeared of what turned
out to be a substantial financial overextension by PERTAMINA, the national
oil company. PERTAMINA had undertaken a large and diversified investment
program financed to a substantial extent by short-term borrowing. With the
initial signs of a recession, monetary institutions in the industrialized
countries became restrictive, credit became more difficult to obtain and
PERTAMINA began experiencing serious financial problems. In the third
quarter of 1974/75, it started withholding part of the corporate oil tax
it had collected on behalf of Government from the foreign oil companies;
by the end of the fiscal year a total of Rp 346 billion ($830 million) had
been so withheld and used to meet PERTAMINA's financial obligations. Early
in 1975, PERTAMINA failed to meet payments due to some foreign banks, and
the Government stepped in to stem an incipient crisis and took decisive
action. It banned all independent foreign borrowing by PERTAMINA and other
public enterprises and gave Bank Indonesia the sole authority to contract
foreign obligations, instructed Bank Indonesia to provide the funds needed
to meet PERTAMINA's external obligations, undertook a comprehensive review
of the oil company's investment projects and began the process of reducing
and replanning the company's investment program and of cancelling and
/1   Indonesian fiscal year April 1, 1974 - March 31, 1975.



- 3 -
renegotiating many of the related procurement contracts. In the course of
1975, the Government also initiated the reorganization of the oil company,
and in March 1976, replaced its top management.
8.        At about the same time, the recession in the industrialized
countries reduced petroleum consumption, and Indonesian oil sales declined
correspondingly. Non-oil exports, particularly those of timber and rubber,
also began to decrease. The volume of oil production (domestic consumption
being relatively small) declined sharply, to less than 1.3 million barrels
per day (bpd) compared to 1.45 million bpd in the first six months of 1974.
In the 1974/75 fiscal year, there was a shortfall of about $200 million in
net oil exports from the levels projected early in the year.
9.        These two factors combined to create considerable financial dif-
ficulties for the Government. The foreign exchange reserves gained in the
first half of the year were lost in the second; by March 31, 1975 these
reserves had declined to the level of a year earlier (i.e. $920 million).
On the domestic front, the Government, after the promise of a very large
expansion in development expenditures, had once again to revise its plans,
this time downwards. A substantial part of the expenditure authorizations
for the 1974/75 budget had to be carried over into the next fiscal year, and
some other expenditures, relating mainly to subsidies on fertilizer and
rice, had to be financed through Bank Indonesia credit. In spite of the
shortfall in budgetary revenues and the administrative difficulties involved
in the implementation of sonme projects, total development expenditures in
1974/75 amounted to Rp 770 billion ($1.9 billion), about 60 percent higher
(20 percent in real terms) than the level in the previous year.
10.       In the first half of 1975/76, Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves
declined by a further $480 million, despite substantial capital inflows, which
included two syndicated public borrowings (totalling $575 million) from the
international capital market. With continuing recessionary conditions in
Indonesia's principal markets, exports were decreasing while imports rose
again (about 30 percent on an annual basis). Debt service payments on behalf
of PERTAMINA were also very large (about $1 billion). In the second half of
1975/76, there was no appreciable change in export earnings, but imports
and debt service payments were lower and there was only a small reduction
in capital inflows (two more cash loans, amounting to $475 million, were
raised). The country's foreign exchange reserve position was therefore
relatively stable in this period and the decline in the reserves for the
year as a whole amounted to $360 million.
11.       Public sector investments continued to rise rapidly in 1975/76.
The Government's development expenditures amounted to over $3 billion
(Rp 1.27 trillion), including foreign project financing totalling $925 mil-
lion and fertilizer subsidies amounting to $320 million. This is more
than two and one-half times the expenditure in 1973/74; when adjusted for
price changes it still represents an increase of about 60 percent. A
further increase of 50 percent in development expenditures is budgeted
for 1976/77.



- 4 -
12.       The resources for the Government's own investment plans (excluding
government-owned enterprises) have been adequate so far. However, as stated
above, the Government has had to borrow over $1 billion on commercial terms
and has had to divert substantial additional financial resources to completing
PERTAMINA investment projects which could not be economically reduced further
or abandoned. A considerable share of these investments was also financed
through domestic credit expansion. Despite a substantial decrease in foreign
exchange reserves, liquidity increased by over 40 percent in aggregate,
which in turn contributed to domestic inflation at the rate of 20 percent in
1975/76, a rate higher than that prevailing in Indonesia's principal trade
partners and competitors.
13.       The recent financial difficulties will affect Indonesia's external
public debt service obligations during the rest of the decade. Debt service
payments over the next several years will be much larger than previously
envisaged as a result of large commercial borrowings in 1975 and 1976 (most
but not all of which related to PERTAMINA's obligations and projects) by
the Government. Debt service in 1976 is now estimated at about $800 million,
which would be about 14 percent of the value of projected exports, with oil
exports on a net basis, i.e. net of foreign costs of production and distribu-
tion and foreign investment income. Debt service payments on all loans con-
tracted up to December 31, 1975 is likely to reach $1.25 billion by 1978,
before declining as shorter-term loans are paid off. This excludes obliga-
tions contracted by PERTAMINA on account of oil tankers which are currently
being renegotiated. This enlarged debt service will, in future years, sharply
reduce net resource transfers which were of the order of $500-600 million in
1973 and 1974, and between $1 and $2 billion in 1975 and 1976. To keep the
debt service burden manageable, recourse to medium-term commercial borrowing
in the next few years will, therefore, have to be kept to a minimum, and
certainly much below the 1975 and expected 1976 levels.
14.       Confronted with these problems the Government has taken a series
of important, far-reaching and difficult decisions. It has decided that
foreign borrowing must be cut back sharply from the 1976 projected level
of about $3.4 billion to about $2 billion in each of the years 1977 and 1978
before being allowed to rise again to about $3 billion in 1980. With a view
to keeping the debt service burden manageable, it aims to effect most of the
reduction through a sharp cut in the least concessionary borrowings, espe-
cially in the early years. On these assumptions, the debt service ratio is
expected to reach 18 percent in 1980 and remain at about that level in the
1980s.
15.       In view of the expected sharp decline in the net foreign resource
transfers, the Government has decided to increase domestic revenues
in the next few years much faster than was originally contemplated and to
levels much higher than those likely to result from a mere continuation of
the existing tax policies and procedures. The Government also plans to
reduce selectively the aggregate size of the proposed public sector invest-
ment program. These actions are aimed at shifting the balance of the public



-5-
sector investment program back towards a greater emphasis on directly improv-
ing the income earning opportunities, productivity and living conditions
of the mass of the population.
16.       While the recent balance of payments and budgetary difficulties
have forced changes in many of the public sector plans, the balance of
payments position in 1976/77 is likely to be much better than in the recent
past and the long-term prospects for Indonesia's development remain good.
Recovery from the recession appears to be underway in most industrialized
countries, commodity prices seem to have bottomed out and oil exports from
Indonesia have been rising in recent months. The Government has succeeded
in negotiating a further increase in its share of the oil income. The rice
stocks are normal and imports are expected to remain at the average level of
recent years (Government estimate is 1.4 million tons), but prices are likely
to be considerably lower. The country has sizeable stocks of fertilizer, and
only small amounts are expected to be imported.
17.       The country has a substantial potential for productive invest-
ment, employment and income growth. In agriculture a vigorous pursuit of
on-going programs in irrigation, development of new plant varieties and
technical services, provision of credit and current inputs, etc. promise
to yield high returns. In addition, there are opportunities for the
development of new areas, of food and plantation crops - partly in con-
junction with a growing transmigration program. The industrial potential
is good, both for modern capital intensive natural resource-based activites
and for more labor-intensive, partly export-oriented industries.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
18.       The discussion in Part I of this Report underscores the need for
a development program which provides productive work opportunities (with
resultant increased incomes) for Indonesia's presently underemployed and
growing labor force. To assist the Government in attaining its goals the
Bank is planning to maintain its lending to Indonesia at present levels and
in particular to support projects designed to: improve agricultural credit,
research and extension; rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems; improve
nutritional levels; assist transmigration and other land development outside
Java and Bali for and by smallholders; increase non-agricultural employment
in the rural areas and small towns, through the establishment of small-scale
industries; develop the electric power system; construct urgently needed
water supply facilities; and expand the national family planning program.
19.       As of September 30, 1976, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits
totalling $561.8 million and 18 Bank loans amounting to $927 million. At that
date, IFC investments totalled $58.4 million. At the end of 1974 the Bank
Group accounted for about 4 percent of Indonesia's total (disbursed) outstand-
ing public debt; by 1978 it is expected to account for 12 percent of total



- 6 -
outstanding debt and 5 percent of public debt service obligations. As in
the past, some local currency financing will continue to be necessary in
connection with a few projects proposed for Bank assistance in the social
sectors . Projects in these sectors tend to have a relatively low foreign
exchange component and the inclusion of some local cost financing in the
Bank loan is necessary if the Bank is to play a meaningful role in their
financing and implementation. A summary statement of IDA Credits, Bank
Loans and IFC Investments as of August 31, 1976, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects are contained in Annex II.
20.       To date, agriculture accounts for about a quarter of all
Bank Group lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits for estate
rehabilitation, six for the rehabilitation and expansion of the irrigation
systems, two for fisheries, and one each for seeds, beef cattle, sugar,
smallholder tea and rubber, and transmigration. In the industrial sector,
the Bank Group has assisted in three projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer
production and distribution capacity, three for development finance companies
(government-owned and private) which play a major role in fostering the
growth of industrial enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung industrial
estate. Loans and credits have also been extended to the transportation,
education, telecommunications, tourism, power, population, urban and water
supply sectors; one loan for a national resource survey and mapping project;
and four credits for technical assistance to aid the Government in preparing
and formulating its development programs and projects.
21.       Bank Group lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in
1968 for irrigation rehabilitation; almost half of all loans and credits
have been made since mid-1972, with lending on Bank terms commencing in
June 1974. Disbursements on loans and credits are now at satisfactory
levels. The Indonesian authorities have become increasingly aware of the
delays in project execution caused by cumbersome procedures and the need to
establish an effective control system in BAPPENAS (the National Development
Planning Agency). At the Government's request, the Bank has arranged for
assistance under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help
set up a monitoring and control system which it is hoped will lead to better
project administration.
22.       Future Bank lending gives high priority to the agricultural sector
through support of projects to increase rice and other crop production, and
the expansion of resettlement efforts from Java to Sumatra. In addition,
the program provides for further socially-oriented projects in the fields
of water supply and population. Projects for nucleus estates, electric
power, small business development, irrigation and nutrition are expected to
be ready for presentation in the next few months. The proposed project
would be the second urban development project in Indonesia assisted by the
Bank.



-7-
Progress under the First Project
23.       In September 1974 the Bank made a loan of $25 million to the
Government of Indonesia for:
(a) Kampung (neighborhood) improvements in Jakarta over a
two-year period:
(b) Development of a 130 ha 'site and services' scheme in
Jakarta;
(c) Establishment of two new urban institutions: a National
Urban Development Corporation (NUDC) and a National
Mortgage Bank (NMB);
(d) Feasibility study for preparation of site and services
projects in other cities; and
(e) Development of a growth strategy for Jakarta and
preparation of a 5-year infrastructure investment
program.
Execution of the Kampung Improvement Program (KIP), component has been very
satisfactory. In fact, construction costs are expected to be about 5 percent
below appraisal estimates; these savings will be used for improving addi-
tional kampungs. Some of the planned schools and health centers have not
yet been constructed due to difficulties in acquiring land.    However, this
difficulty has now been resolved and the Government expects to have the
remaining structures completed by the end of 1976. Many of the public water
taps have not been in operation due largely to difficulties in finding con-
cessionaires; this problem the Government is resolving by arranging for a
private company to operate all the taps for which concessionaires cannot be
found. The site and services component is behind schedule due to difficulty
in resolving land disputes, which delayed preparation of engineering designs.
Recently, these problems were resolved and the initial contracts are being
tendered. Of the institutions established, the National Urban Development
Corporation (NUDC) has made substantial progress considering that it is a
new organization. The National Mortgage Bank (NMB) will require considerable
assistance and time before it can commence operations on a sound financial
basis as a mortgage institution; many legal and financial issues must still
be resolved. Proposals have been received from consultants to undertake
feasibility studies for urban projects in eight cities and contracts are
expected to be signed shortly. As far as the development of a growth strat-
egy for Jakarta and preparation of an infrastructure investment program are
concerned, the Government has recently established a metropolitan planning
team to coordinate the work.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
24.       With a population of approximately 135 million (1976), Indonesia is
the fifth most populous country in the world. In terms of land area, it ranks
thirteenth. At present, nearly two thirds of Indonesia's population reside



- 8 -
on the islands of Java, Madura and Bali, which represent only 7 percent of
the nation's land area. On these islands, where natural conditions are
favorable for agriculture, population density has reached a level higher
than in Bangladesh. Densities are highest, of course, in urban areas (about
8,000 persons/sq km in Jakarta) but even rural densities on Java range
between 400-600 persons/sq km. The high density in rural Java has created
intense pressures on available agricultural land and consequently pushed
landless farmers and unskilled labor into the major urban centers faster
than the latter have been able to absorb efficiently.    In the interval
between 1961 and 1971, during which Indonesia's population increased by
about 22 percent, its urban population increased by some 44 percent.
25.       There are relatively few urban centers in Indonesia.    In all of
Java there are only 10 cities with populations in excess of 150,000 inhabi-
tants, only four of which have more than 500,000 residents. Naturally,
these major cities attract most of the migrants seeking employment. An
Urban Unemployment Survey in 1972 reported unemployment rates as high as 12
percent for the three major cities of Java, there is also wide spread
underemployment. In most urban areas the poorest segments of the community
have little access to basic amenities, such as paved footpaths, water
supply, sanitary facilities and roads. Only one city in the country (Bandung)
has even a small water-borne sewerage system; no city has an adequate water
supply system. Often mud paths serve as links to the transport system, and
open ditches collect garbage and human waste. These unhygienic conditions
contribute to the spreading of disease which debilitates and reduces produc-
tivity. Cholera, typhoid, dysentery and parasite diseases transmitted by
water are endemic to Indonesia; in 1974, it had the highest number of
cholera cases and deaths from cholera in the world. In addition to disease,
infant mortality and malnutrition are severe urban problems, as seen in
Jakarta where infant mortality runs 20 percent of live births and about
50 percent of children under five years of age show signs of growth stunting
and malnutrition. Government is keenly aware of these conditions and is
endeavoring to solve its urban problems through major sector investments,
housing development programs, and multisectoral improvements for low-income
kampungs, as well as incentives for the expansion of small enterprises to
stimulate employment.
Jakarta
26.       Jakarta, the capital city of Indonesia, has a population of nearly
six million, growing at an annual rate of more than 5.7 percent. In 1971, the
average per capita GDP in Jakarta was $160 compared to $80 in other regions
of the country, yet many thousands were, and still are, earning far less.
According to reports as much as half of the working population is occupied
in the informal service sector earning only minimal subsistence amounts.
The city has an acute shortage of adequate housing. Because most residen-
tial dwellings are individual structures, not apartments, and the transport
system is overburdened, the city has become a thicket of cramped little
bamboo and wooden houses. Each year the situation worsens as new neighbor-
hoods, or kampungs, spring up around the periphery of the city.,



- 9 -
27.       The capital city has no water-borne sewer system; however, a
feasibility study for a sewer system is currently in progress, financed by
UNDP with WHO as executing agency. Jakarta's piped water supply system
covers only 20 percent of the city's area and provides individual house
connections to only 1.5 million residents. It is assumed that another one
million residents living within the service area receive piped water from
street vendors. The rest of the population relies largely on hand-dug
shallow wells. A project to double the water supply from 5 to 10 cu
m/second is expected to be completed by the early 1980s. More than 30
percent of the city's garbage stands uncollected. Although a drainage and
flood control study has been completed, implementation of many recommenda-
tions has been postponed. Hence, large sections of this nearly flat city
continue to be subject to severe flash floods during the rainy season.
Electric power from the public authority (PLN) is available in the urbanized
core of Jakarta to only one of every 44 persons. Currently PLN plans to
improve service and by 1980 to increase generation in the Jakarta-West Java
area from the present 445 MW to 755 MW. The transport network is grossly
inadequate for a city of Jakarta's size. In December 1975, consultants
completed a four-year study of the metropolitan transport network and sub-
mitted to Government a phased program of investments up to the year 2000.
Swift implementation of projects stemming from these sector proposals cannot
be expected, given the large commitment of financial resources required and
Government's present short-term budgetary constraints.
Surabaya
28.       Surabaya, Indonesia's second largest city, with a population of
about 2.1 million was the country's most active port during the Dutch period.
Today major shipping passes through Jakarta's port at Tanjung Priok, although
currently efforts are being made to modernize and reactivate Surabaya's port
facilities. Under the Dutch, Surabaya developed as a thriving commercial
center. Wide streets and urban facilities constructed at the time contribute
to making Surabaya an attractive location for commercial interests today.
Government has stimulated new development by constructing an industrial estate
southeast of the city near the airport. Employment data is very imprecise, but
it is estimated that about 400,000 people (mostly males) come to Surabaya from
the nearby impoverished island of Madura during the dry season seeking tem-
porary employment. This regular migration increases the densities in the
city's poorest kampungs putting a further strain on the inadequate services
in these areas.
29.       Physical facilities in Surabaya are inadequate for the present
population. The municipal water supply system serves only 22 percent of the
population. An emergency program to increase the supply by 25 percent to
about 2,000 liters/second is scheduled for completion in 1977. A full-scale
feasibility study of system expansion is due by the end of 1976. Electric
power facilities are being expanded from 50 MW to 75 MW; about 50 percent
of the populaton presently receives power service. Since the city has no
sewer system, and is subject to periodic flooding, it is a legal requirement
that all sanitary facilities, public or private, be connected to septic tanks,
however, only some 50 percent of the population is served by such facilities.



- 10 -
Kampung Improvement Program (KIP)
30.       A systematic approach to upgrading the services in crowded urban
neighborhoods was first launched in Jakarta in 1969 as part of the city's
first five-year development program. By using its own revenues and funds
distributed by the Central Government on a per capita basis for physical
infrastructure improvements, the city succeeded in improving 20 percent of
its urbanized area, or 2,400 ha in a five-year period. Improvements pri-
marily consisted of concrete footpaths and roads. In the early 1970's, the
Government approached the Bank for assistance in expanding this program
and in 1974 the Bank made a loan (1040-IND) which financed a two-year phase
of the program covering an area of about 2,000 ha and benefitting about
900,000 people. As part of the project Government enlarged its KIP concept
to include water supply, community sanitary facilities and garbage removal,
as well as school and health center construction. To implement this broader
program the Jakarta Government (DKI) established a special administrative
unit for KIP which has its own budget and reports directly to the Governor.
The Central Government and DKI are continuing to improve the program and to
seek ways in which it can be replicated in other Indonesian cities. The
proposed project would aid in the improvement of another 3,000 ha of kam-
pungs with services further modified and improved from the previous project.
31.       Surabaya has an embryonic kampung improvement program which to
date has covered the construction mainly of scattered road and drainage
projects, using Central Government allocations and community contributions
of both labor and materials. Under the proposed project, Surabaya would
begin a comprehensive program similar to that in Jakarta over a total area
of 374 ha.
Institutional Development
32.       The major urban intiative of the Second Five-year Development
Plan (1974-79) has been the formation of the National Urban Development
Corporation (NUDC) established under the first urban project. The NUDC is
buying urban land throughout the country to develop and resell for specific
residential, commercial, or industrial uses. Establishing a government
corporation to undertake such projects offers the advantage of combining
government seed capital with authorization to borrow from both public and
private sources to develop facilities neglected by the private construction
sector. Initially, the GOI capitalized NUDC with about $2.5 million. This
amount is being augmented annually according to the requirements of the
work program prepared in consultation with technical advisers retained
under the first urban project. Most of the government funds allocated for
housing development during the Second Plan period (about $60 million) are
being channeled through NUDC. Because NUDC is still very much in the
formative stages of development it is proposed to continue under this
project services of consultants initially retained under the first project.



- 11 -
33.       In addition to the NUDC, the Government established its first
mortgage institution by restructuring the existing Bank Tebungan Negara.
With consultant services provided under the first project the National
Mortgage Bank (NMB) has begun the process of staff reorganization and is
currently endeavoring to establish procedures for mortgage operations.
34.       Within the Central Government numerous agencies are involved in
various aspects of national programs for urban development. BAPPENAS is res-
ponsible for formulating five-year economic development plans and overseeing
their implementation. BAPPENAS approves the development budgets of all
Central Government ministries. To evaluate the project proposals put forward
for approval, BAPPENAS has a highly competent but small and much overworked
staff of technical experts and sector economists. Since their workload is so
demanding, each technical bureau must of necessity rely heavily on policy re-
commendations and sector analysis done by individual ministries.
35.       For assistance in the urban field, BAPPENAS looks to Cipta Karya,
the Directorate-General for Housing, Building and Planning in the Ministry
of Public Works and Electric Power. This agency has separate directorates
for Sanitary Engineering, Urban and Regional Planning, People's Housing, and
Construction of Government Buildings. Cipta Karya through its Directorate
for Sanitary Engineering is currently executing the Bank-financed, Five-
Cities Water Supply Project (1049-IND). Cipta Karya is also responsible for
supervising the physical planning that takes place throughout the country.
In this capacity it has undertaken the preparation of a physical growth
strategy for the greater Jakarta region, including the satellite towns
surrounding Jakarta of Bogor, Tangerang, and Bekasi - all of which lie in
the province of West Java. The concept is referred to by the acronym,
JABOTABEK. With technical assistance provided under the proposed loan
Cipta Karya would continue refining the JABOTABEK concept to derive specific
infrastructure plans. To coordinate JABOTABEK planning and public investment,
Government established a JABOTABEK Planning Team by Presidential Decree in
July 1976. The Director-General of Cipta Karya will have a key role in the
operation of this new team. And, in addition Cipta Karya is developing a
national model for the improvement of urban kampungs. By supervising the
proposed project it expects to gain experience needed to design future
projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       This Second Urban Development Project, prepared by the Government
with assistance from consultants financed under the first project (IND-1040),
was appraised in January 1976. The Appraisal Report (No. 1184-IND) is being
distributed separately, a loan and project summary appears in Annex III.
Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., August 30 - September 7, 1976.
The Borrower's delegation was led by Mr. Rachmat Wiradisuria, Director-General
of Cipta Karya, Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power.



- 12 -
Project Description
37.       The project is a major part of the Government's efforts to improve
the physical and social conditions of the urban poor at a reasonable cost.
Kampung improvement upgrades services to the existing housing stock in
low-income areas and leaves the residents themselves to upgrade their
dwellings as improvements are made in their environment. The institutional
arrangements for this project, whereby the Government is supporting a
comprehensive KIP program in Surabaya, as well as Jakarta, should establish
the basis for a national KIP program. The project will also initiate pilot
programs for community-based health services in the kampungs to promote
preventive treatment.
38.       To achieve the above objectives, the project comprises:
(a) Kampung Improvement Program: Jakarta. Provision of basic
urban infrastructure including water supply, human waste
disposal, drainage, footpaths, and roads to about 3,000 ha
of densely settled neighborhoods to benefit directly about
1.2 million low-income residents. Primary schools and health
clinics will be provided in the neighhoods and a pilot program
of community health, family planning and nutrition will be
undertaken;
(b) Kampung Improvement Program: Surabaya. Physical infra-
structure improvements similar to those in Jakarta will
be made in at least 374 ha of densely settled neighbor-
hoods to benefit directly about 200,000 low-income re-
sidents. Primary schools and health clinics will be
provided and a pilot program will be undertaken to train
100 volunteer community health workers drawn from the
kampungs.
(c) Supratman Program: Surabaya. Expansion of a present
program of small-scale physical infrastructure improve-
ments in low income neighborhoods throughout the city.
Initiative stems from residential groups who will pro-
vide about 50% of construction costs in kind and apply
to the municipal government for a matching contribution.
(d) Studies and Training. With technical assistance provided
under the project Government plans to undertake the training
of engineers and accountants especially for KIP in Jakarta and
Surabaya; evaluation of growth strategies for metropolitan
Jakarta and analysis of their investment implications; training
of property tax officials in Jakarta; staff training for the
NUDC; monitoring and evaluation of KIP impact; and feasibility
studies for urban projects in other cities (para. 43).



- 13 -
Detailed Features of the Project
Jakarta
39.       Design work for the 1,000 ha in the first year program
has already been completed. Based on these the following estimates have
been made of the various components of the KIP part of the project in Jakarta
for the entire three-year program:
(a) About 575 km of footpaths;
(b) About 120 km of paved roads;
(c) An estimated 75 km primary drainage canal;
(d) Extension of the water supply distribution system and
provision of public standpipes to supply about
20 1/capata/day;
(e) Materials for individual or small communal pit privies
to be constructed by the residents themselves under the
general direction of trained technicians;
(f) Concrete garbage bins, hand carts and 9 garbage trucks
for collection and disposal of solid waste;
(g) Construction of elementary schools in the kampungs to
serve in combination and on a double-shift basis at
least 75 percent of the children eligible to attend
grades 1-6;
(h) Construction of about 45 health clinics in kampungs not
presently served by district clinics, 30 health offices
for the use of community health workers in the pilot
health/nutrition/family planning programs, and provi-
sion of the necessary medical and office equipment.
Surabaya
40.       As in Jakarta, the KIP program in Surabaya will provide paved
footpaths, vehicular roads, water supply, human waste disposal, drainage
and solid waste disposal facilities. In addition, the project would
provide about 15 primary schools, 5 health clinics, 3 health offices and
the necessary equipment for these facilities. Also, the project includes
expansion of the existing city-wide Supratman Program of upgrading community
facilities by matching in funds an amount equivalent to the funds, materials,
and/or labor contributed by the initiating neighborhood groups.



- 14 -
Pilot Health and Nutrition Programs
41.       To alleviate the shortage of health facilities and trained per-
sonnel in the kampungs of Jakarta and Surabaya the project includes pilot
programs of neighborhood-level health and nutrition services. This effort
would be implemented and evaluated in the course of a 2-year period in order
to develop a model that could later be incorporated into a nationwide kampung
improvement program. In Jakarta the pilot scheme would benefit about 100,000
residents through the training of about 360 community workers to deliver inte-
grated services - oriented toward preventive care - by teaching better habits
of nutrition, hygiene and family planning. Operating from small 2-room neigh-
borhood clinics, these workers will spend much of their time with residents
making home visits. Workers will participate in one-month training sessions
and periodic refresher courses provided by the City Health Department. In
Surabaya, about 100 workers will be similarly trained to serve some 500,000
residents. Data collected through the 2-year period will be utilized to
evaluate whether this approach is more effective in terms of reducing the
incidence of disease than large, but more inaccessible health facilities.
Design Standards
42.       Standards for the different items of infrastructure in Jakarta
have been defined in agreement with the project authorities. The level of
service for these items will not be fixed rigidly for each kampung but will
be derived from the existing level of infrastructure, physical condition and
budgetary allocation. This more flexible approach will lead to a closer
match between the specific needs of each kampung and the facilities provided.
It is based on the favorable experience of the first project in which the
KIP unit demonstrated its ability to handle more sophisticated design
procedures. The detailed designs for the Surabaya kampungs in the first-
year program have not yet been completed and therefore, a breakdown of the
project components is not available. However, overall levels of investment
per dwelling have been specified as in the case of Jakarta. The per capita
costs for the kampung programs are estimated to be $59 in Jakarta and $29 in
Surabaya (1976 prices). Costs in Surabaya are lower than in Jakarta because
of the greater existing infrastructure in kampungs in Surabaya and lower
unit costs for civil works. Any savings realized will be used to expand the
coverage of the program. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
variations from the design standards (Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement)
would be agreed by the Bank (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance
43.       Consultants acceptable to the Bank will be retained to assist Cipta
Karya by undertaking feasibility studies of urban development projects in
selected medium-sized cities throughout the country; in the supervision of
project execution; in the development of a national kampung improvement
program through design work and monitoring and evaluation of this project;
and in the preparation of physical growth strategies for the metropolitan
Jakarta area. Additional funds will be provided for extending until March 30,
1978 the services of management consultants retained by NUDC under the first



- 15 -
urban project. In addition, the Ministry of Finance will retain consultants
to assist DKI in municipal taxation, property valuation, and training in
surveys. An estimated total of 57 man-years of assistance will be required
at a cost of about $4.7 million. The average cost per man-month is estimated
to be $5,800.
Project Execution
44.       Overall responsibility for project implementation will rest with
Cipta Karya through its Directorate of People's Housing. However, actual
on-site project execution will be done by the responsible agencies in Jakarta
and Surabaya. The Jakarta KIP will be executed by the KIP Unit whose director
reports to the Governor. This unit has its own budget of $34 million annually
and operates the entire program, including kampung selection and supervision
of engineering design by the Public Works Department, tendering, construction
supervision, and monitoring of operations and maintenance. Establishment of
a similar unit in Surabaya to execute both the city-wide Supratman Program
and the KIP and appointment of the unit director is a condition of disburse-
ment for the Surabaya component (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
45.       Total project cost is estimated at $104.8 million of which about
$28 million is in foreign exchange. The proposed loan of $52.5 million would
finance about 50 percent of total project costs including about $24.5 million
of local costs. Local currency financing is justified in social sector projects
such as this for the reasons discussed earlier (para. 19). Price contingencies
of $20.5 million have been estimated on the basis of projected price increases
during the construction period of 20 percent in 1976, 15 percent in 1977 and
1978 and 12 percent in 1979. Project costs are given in Annex III and are
summarized below:
($ Millions)
KIP Jakarta                      71.2
KIP Surabaya                      8.4
Technical Assistance              4.7
Price Contingencies              20.5
Total            104.8
46.       Of the proposed loan proceeds about $44 million would be on-lent
to DKI and about $4 million to the municipal government of Surabaya through
subsidiary loan agreements on the same terms as the Bank loan except that
interest would be waived during the construction period and an interest
rate one quarter of one percent higher than the Bank loan would be charged
in order to cover commitment charges. The Borrower would bear the foreign
exchange risk (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement). In both Jakarta and
Surabaya the additional funds required would come from local budget alloca-
tions.



- 16 -
Mtunicipal Revenue Generation
47.       Recovering the investment costs for kampung improvements has
been the subject of serious discussions between the Bank and the Government.
Various alternatives such as a betterment tax, or a transfer tax on any sale
of improved property have been considered for this purpose. However, since
similar taxes are not imposed on residents elsewhere who benefit from stan-
dard infrastructure investments, the Governrent believes it would be inequit-
able to charge kampung beneficiaries for what are minimal public services.
Nevertheless, the Government is endeavoring to recover some of its investment
costs through various improvements in its IPEDA (property tax) system and
increased annual IPEDA collections. As a result of the Government's efforts
to improve the property tax system between 1970 and 1975, revenues from the
IPEDA tax in both Jakarta and Surabaya increased at an average rate of about
50 percent per year, or over 15 percent per year in real terms, i.e., after
allowing for inflation and population increases. Because of the importance
of maintaining real growth in property tax revenues, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government would continue to improve its property
tax program (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement), with the goal of continuing
to increase revenues annually by 15 percent in real terms. This increase
in revenue would be sufficient to more than cover debt service payments for
the KIP subsidiary loans to both Jakarta and Surabaya.   Technical assistance
will be provided under the project to assist the Government in improving
its property tax system.
Procurement
48.       All bidders for civil works contracts will be prequalified accord-
ing to standard procedures used by the KIP unit which are acceptable to the
Bank. Since individual KIP contracts usually cover small-scale works with
values varying from $25,000 to $600,000, the contracts will be awarded
following competitive bidding locally advertised in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Procurement of furniture and equipment
for schools and health clinics will be in small lots by competitive bidding
locally advertised.
Disbursement
49.       Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed for 50 percent of
civil works expenditures for the KIPs and 40 percent of civil works expendi-
tures for Surabaya's Supratman Program against certificates of expenditures
certified by Cipta Karya and the supervising consultants; 100 percent of
foreign expenditures or 95 percent of the ex-factory price of locally manu-
factured furniture and equipment, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and 75 percent of local expenditures for consultant services. Because it
was necessary to sign civil works contracts amounting to about $20 million
for KIP in Jakarta so that construction could commence prior to the rainy
season, it is proposed to finance retroactively up to $3.5 million of
expenditures incurred prior to loan signing. Retroactive financing is also
recommended for financing the Surabaya KIP project design, up to an amount
of $50,000. Full disbursement of the loan is expected by March 31, 1980.
A disbursement schedule is given in Annex III.



- 17 -
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
50.       A series of surveys have been initiated by DKI in Jakarta which
will be used to evaluate this project and help determine the composition of
similar future projects. In addition to surveys monitoring the health status
of kampung residents and changes in environmental conditions, a series of
surveys is underway that compares the social and economic characteristics of
inhabitants in the improved kampungs and the nonimproved ones.
Project Benefits and Justification
51.       The project would continue Bank support for the Government's
efforts to directly improve the well-being of the low-income population by
improvements in their physical environment. Since the city of Jakarta is
growing by a quarter of a million persons a year and thousands of them are
without even minimal public services, the Government has developed a
strategy to meet the needs of the largest number of persons at the lowest
possible cost. Because similar situations on a smaller scale exist in most
Indonesian cities, the Government is endeavouring to start similar programs
in other cities.
52.       The project will provide improved living conditions for over 20 per-
cent of Jakarta's current population, or about 1.2 million people, and about
9.5 percent of Surabaya's population, or 200,000 people. In the densely
crowded, unserviced urban kampungs of Indonesia, open spaces and canals are
the chief places for disposal of human waste. Stagnant water, lack of
footpaths and lack of a safe supply of drinking water are ever present
health hazards contributing to high levels of mortality and debilitating
disease. Productivity, which is directly related to health, is correspond-
ingly low. Project investments in community and individual human waste
disposal facilities, improved storm drainage channels, community health
centers, and a less contaminated water supply will result in better health
and living conditions for the residents of Jakarta and Surabaya. With this
infrastructure and the complementary provision of health/nutrition programs
and educational facilities, basic labor productivity is expected to be
increased.
53.       The calculation of a quantitative estimate of the economic rate
of return is based upon the assumption that benefits can be measured at
least approximately, through changes in the market value of property in the
project areas. While there are certain project benefits, especially those
that are health related, that may be only indirectly reflected in property
values, such values are believed to provide a useful indicator of the minimum
economic value of project outputs.
54.       The economic rate of return for the Jakarta component (project cost:
$71.2 million) is 54 percent and for the Surabaya component (project cost:
$8.4 million) is over 100 percent. The weighted economic rate of return for the
entire project is 59 percent. A sensitivity analysis for a 20 percent reduction
in benefits results in returns of 26 percent and 94 percent for Jakarta and
Surabaya respectively. When labor is shadow priced at 50 percent to reflect
opportunity costs, the returns are 67 percent for Jakarta, and over 100 percent
again for Surabaya.



- 18 -
55.       No data are available on the productivity improvements that
may result from the project's health related components. However, it may
be noted that a return of 15 percent would be obtained if productivity
improvements were six percent in Jakarta and three percent in Surabaya.
Such improvements seem attainable. An analysis of the education component
indicated that an increase in life-time earnings of 12 percent would
justify the expenditures. This increase seems reasonable.
56.       The high rates of return reflect the relative scarcity of serviced
land in Jakarta and Surabaya and the very high value that residents place on
these services. While the supporting data are not precise, there is no doubt
that property value increases after development are large relative to the
cost of the services provided by KIP, because in the past the expansion of
these services has been curtailed by available resources.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Features of the Agreement of special interest are referred to in
paragraphs 42, 44, 46 and 47 of this report. A special condition of effec-
tiveness would be:
(a) the conclusion of subsidiary loan agreements between the
Borrower and the provincial government of Jakarta and the
municipal government of Surabaya.
Special conditions of disbursement for the Surabaya component would be:
that the municipal government of Surabaya has established a separate
KIP unit to be responsible for planning and implementation of works
financed under the project and has appointed a head of this unit.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
October 7, 1976



ANNEX I
TABLE S4                                    Page- 1of 1L pagee
INDONESIA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SmEET
LAND AREA (THOU KmZ)................                                              .........
---------------                          ~~~~~INDONESIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       t904.3                                              POST RECENT
AGRIC.        279.8                          1 960       1 970    ESTIMATE             9ANGLADESH       INDIA            PHILIPPINES'
GN4P PER CAPITA (US$)                            7.            1.           8.                    90.0        110.0         230.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR.      MILLION)             95.4         116.3        131.6                  70.8         50~.7         36.9
POPULATION nENSITY
PER SgUAAr KM.                              50.0         61. 0         69.0                 '.96. 0       165 .0       1 23. 0
PER SO. OW. AGRICULTURAL LAND                 ..         I05.0        426.O/a               692.0         290.0        279.0
VIT4L STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND               4~6.o        4 5.9         4~2.9                 50.2         4 2. 7        4 4. 2
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND               25.IY        20. 6         16.9                  22.9         1 8. 8        1 3. 2
WNANT MORTALITY RATE C/HOU)                L Z5. O/ab      ...1 40. a                                                    00.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)             IL0.0                 0~.    a.5          ~.                     725.
GROSS REP90ODUCTION RATE                     2.8 /         3. 2         3.1                   3.1           2. 9         3. 3
PPUPLLATION GROWTH RATE MI
T9TAL                                        2.1           2.0          2.5                   2.6           2.L          5.0
URBAN                                         *.3.7~ /a                 4.1 /b                 *.3.2                     4.0
URBAN POPULATILON C I OF TO TAL)               IL4P         17.6 /b      18.2                     .          19.8           16
AGE STRUCTUQE (PLRCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                              42.1 /a.     Li.0          44.1 4a~1i.6                                     4&5.6
15 TO 64 YEARS                                                         5355 .3L  53.5  53.5s.3                          51.6
65 YEARS AN4D OVER                           2.6/          2.5          2.5Z                               3.12.
AGE DEPENDENCT    RATIO                        0.8 /a        0.9          0. 9/a.c                ..           .8          0. 9
EO040MIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                       A..                        1.5                    ..1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, TNHOU).                          2 59. 3      L~833.3                   .        10.           354.0
USERS (I OF M4ARRIEO WOWEN)                    .             ...                                                          2.j
EN4P~OY RENT
TOTAL LA8OR FORCE (TROuSANO)               34600.0            .      40100.0               22300.0             .      12300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AOAICULTURE (II                68. 0            .         6 2 .0                71.0            .           55.0 /a
UNE4PLUYEO Cl OF LABOR FORCE)                   5. 4                      S . 4/a.d               ....70
INCOME DISTRIRUTION
t OF PRIVATr INCUME RECO0 BY-
HIGHEST    5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS                    ..                      33. 7/aoe             16.7/a       2 5.0/a
HIGHEST 291 OF HOUSEHOLDS                     .                        5    .:               42. 37a      5 3.1i7a
LOWEST    200% OF HOUSEHOLDS                  .                         6.8 7                 7.9 a.FT
LOWEST    40: OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ....                      737                   96a         131?
CISTRIVUTIONi OF LAND OWNERSHIP
OAR ED 89   Y    IV; OF    ;ONERS            48.0 /           ..                              34.0/b
1 0ANED aY SMALLLST 101 OWNERS                  3.0                                             1:o. .. 
HFALT-I AND NUTRITIJN
PJPUJLATION PER PHYSICIAN                 41000.0 /d    21 6 50.0    23800.0                 7600.0/c     4800. 0
POPULATION4 PER NURSING PERSON                   ..      5010. 0       6960.0               72C30.o7.-    5 110. 0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                 1350.0       SF20.0        1450.0/a              812D.07~     1620.0         850.0
PEA CAP 114 SUPPLY CF 
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)                a89. 0       8 9. 0          .                                9 3. 0       100.0
PROTEIN (fRAMS PER DAY)                     4 3. 0       43S.            ...                              5 3.0        4 5. 0
-OF WHIrH ANIMAL AND PULSE               15. 0 /e      1 4.0           ..                               1 6. 0       2 2. 0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4                      .....                                            ..9.0
EnUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENOOLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                              5 9. 0       69.0          64.                   50.0/0       68.0/A      1 00. 
SECONOANI SCHOOL                             6. 0        1 2. 0        1 2.0                 1 5 o7          .          4 8.00
YEARS OF SC4OOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                    1,2. 0       12. 0         12 .0                 1 0.0        12. 0         1 0. 0
VOCATItONAL ~NAOLLMENT
(T OF SECONADART)                           20.0         2 9. 0        28. a~                 1 .0         6. 0/c        6. 0/c
ADULT LITERACT    RATE (Il                    47T. 0 Lf.                 60.0                    .           33.0
P:RSOS PE     OM(AVERAGE)                      L..                        .6 /a
OCCUPIEC OoELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED 4RTR (I)                                 .......                                                                 66.0/d.6
A.CESS TO ELECTRICITY
CI OF ALL OHiELLINGS)                         2....                                            .              .        z.oL/
RURAL OWELLYNGS CONNECTED
Ta ELECRTRCITY (1                                          ...                                 .                         6.0/d
EY.NSUP4PT ION
4ADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)                 7. 0       1 14. 0          ..6.0                            21.0          4 5.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                  1 .0          2. 0         3.0                   1. 0          1. 0         a:.0
ELECTRICITY (iAH/YfR PEA CAP)                  15.0         2 0. 0       27.0                  20. 0       1 14.3-       2 35. 0
NEWSPRINT CR0G/YR PER CAP)                     0. 2          C. 2         0 .2                   .            0. 3         I .2 If
.--   -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - --  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -   :-  - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  -
SEE NOTES ANI DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX_ 
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 aend 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Eatieate between
1973 and 1975.
** The Philippinen has been selected aa an objective country for its geographical abofiarity and becaaae of its apparent advanced otege of econmicof
develoPment.
INDONESIAi           1960     /c  Excludes Went Irian;    /b  1963;    Ic  1951-56;    /d  1962;   /e   1961-63;   If  10 year" end ever, ability to teed or write
in either Latin or non-Latin ch-racere.
1970    Ia   1961-7i,   /b  1971.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:      Ia  1971;   lb   1971-74,   Ic  Excludes West Irian;     Id  Meetly uneoployed workera Seeking their first Job;
7;     income recipient;   If  1972,    La   10 years Sndower, ability to read and write In either Latin or non-
Latin characters.
EANCLADESH           1970     /a  1966-67,   /b   1967-68;    Ic  Registered, not all practicing in the country;      Id  Covertmsent hospital establishm,ents only;
7;- Approximate enrollment as percentage of population in 6-10 and 11-1 5 age groups reapectively.
INDIA                1970     Ia  1967-68;   /b  5-10 years of age;     Ic  1967.
PHILIPPINES          1970     /a  A. percentage of amployment;     lb  7-12 end 13-16 yearn of age reepectively;      It  Not including private vocetional schoole
or vocational chart-tenm coursea;     /d  1967, households;     /e  Ineide only;   7!   Tmpor ts Only.
Ri13, Auguat 25, 1976
PEIRfINT INS OP SW;IAL INDICATg
LaPopulation per-nursing person n                                                                                    Population divided by number of practicing
oal-Total su   ace area comprising land area ared inlai   wators.                na    n   emale Srauat    noir.een  'trained' or  certifiede nurses, end
Agric,    Most recent ostimate of agricultural area used temporarily or              auxiliary personnel with training or' experienco.
permanently for crepe, Pastures, market & kitchen gardena or to lie              Population per hopia bd- population divided by nunber of hoSpital ceds
fallow.                                                       avai~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:lable in pbic and private general and specialized hosPital and
rehabilitatlen centers; exclodes earning hones and establ.ishments for
GNP per capita  (mS) - ON? per capita ectteates at ar-rumt, flrtt plicas,            custodial and preventive care
calculated by ese converion method as World         m  Atlas (1973-75 baasic)    Pot cai    a sply ofclris(         f touee        )- Computed fins energy
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                          equivlent oFne0tfoodrsupplies av       able in country par capita per day;
Population end vital atarictico                                ~~~~~~available supplies comprise da.ecstic production, imports less exports,
Population  md  vital st.tistica                               ~~~~~and changes in stock; net supplies exclude aninal feed, sends, quanti-
Populatio fomid-vr.nilllac, - As of July first:     if not available,               tiee used in food processing and losses in, distribution; requirwosnts
aeaeof two e'..Year estimates ; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                      wore estimated by FAO based on phySiologiCal neoda for normal activity
and health considering environmental temperature, bodY weights, ag, and
Popul~ation density - per squa_re kbe  - Mid-ya   opltonsrsqaekiox0 distributions of population, aned allowing 10% for smote at house-
meter elhc iares oftoalaea.                                                         hold leve2.      
Population dens ity prsu       e noagric. lacnd - Computed as above for             Per capita suppl1_y.oYf.protein (grams Per day) - Protein conte,:t of Per
-agr-    -toal land only.                                                           capita net suppl   of food pu  day; net supply of food is defined as
Vital statistics                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~above; requirements for all countries established by USDA aconomic
Creal sbithatesic ReeIpsci-Ana            ie    itsprtaun            fNsearnch Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grass of total
rude   i  ~  K" r   ~hOusnd  -  nnua  liv   birta  pe   thoQud o   Ld- protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein , of which
year PoPulation; ten-year arithmatin averMags enaing in 1960 an 21970,              10 grais should be animel protein; these et-zd-rd       ar  lower thee tense
acd five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate.                      of 75 grams o12total protein and 23 grass of anieal prutei,: as an
Crme de ath rate p  r thaussond - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year              average for the world, proposed by PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
poplaton ~tan-ye    rlistie averages endinig in 1960 and 1970 and                Pera o iaprote   n supyfgnmla            d.ppu~lse - Protein suPPlY of food
five-year average ending in 1975 for Ynst recent estimatse                          deivedfro     animals ana pulses in gas     e  day.
Infrt,ellrWi       thoul - Anual deaths of Infants undaer one year of         Death rate (/hou)     e 1- - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
age pe  thoN  ivbi rth~Fs.                                                   14years, oIeb        en    this age group; suggested as an indlicator of
lieu  etancy at birth (yis) - Average number of years of life renainir.g           mlutiin
abIrt;usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1910 sod 1975 for
developing countrios.                                                             Rducatinn
Gross reproduction rate   - Average number of live daughters a woman will            Adju.stede enolent ratyio- prInsYschool - Girollment of all ages as
berin her normal reproductive period if rhe experiences present age-             pernageof prmr         fcho-g      Ppulation; includes children aged
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of prinary education;
1970 and 1975 for develeping countries,                                              for countries with universal edUcation, enrollnent. nay exceed 100%
Population growth rate (7.) -   total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-           since some pupils are bel ow or above the official scl:ool age.
year population for 1950-hO, 1960-70 end 1970-75.                                  Adjusted enrollmn ai      -    secondar s hool - Computed as above;
Populatiorn growth rate(  )- urban    ~ - Computed like growth rate of total           sesdyeuction requires at lefastcfour years of approved primary
POplaio;difeet           efnTioso.       ra    ra    a   fetcmua                     instruction; provides general, vocational or teacher training
bility of data snong countries.                                                      instructions for pupils, of 12 tn 17 years of age; correspondence
Urb-      uation N       fi   total) - Ratio of urban to total population;             courses are generally excluded.
different def{initIions of urb     areas say affect comparability of data         fears ofischoolin p  ovided frta      dscn ees               oe,yuso
among countries.                                                                     shoig       atscnaylv,vctsna                tnstruot!on coy be par-
Mnst eprcent) - Children (0-1k years), working-age (15-64 years),               tal     rcmltl         xldd
an  eird65 year    and over) as percentages of sid-y.ar population.          Vocational enrollment (% of secoodary) - Vocational institutions include
Age d   dency ratio- Ratio of populatio     udr1an65ndoet,techtnical, industrial or other progrmno which operate independently or
th  of&ages lLVthrough 64.                                                           as departments of secondary institutions.
Econmoic dep2enndency_ratio   - N-atio of population under 15 and 65 ai:d over       AdultIgAieraOyr!5te%       Literate adults (iible to read and write) as
tothe labor force In age group of 15-64 years.                                      pecnajoitl odult population aged 15 years and over.
Famlyplannig- ancestors (cumulative thou) - Cumulative number of
acetrs iof bith-control desvices unr auspie      o    atoalfisl
planning progran since inception,                                                     o_ln.pr room (average) - Averago nunber of persons per rocn in
Family Planning -    users (S  of narried women) - Percentages of married               occuiediiconvenhtTionaldwelings in urban areas; dwelli.,gs exclude
wonm   of ch_ild-bearing age(1-     years) who use birth-control devices              non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.
to all married womsen in same age group.                                           Occupied dwelln~gswiXthdoutr piped ater (  )-occupied conventional
dwelins i  uran  nd  ura  aras without inside or outside piped
&Mloment                                                          w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sater facilities as percentage of all oupied dwelings.
Yo t-lalir force (U  usnd         - conomically active pursues, including             Access to electricity (%    of all delig   ) - Conventional dwellings with
armed forces sad   nspoed but excloding housewives, students, etc.;                   electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                                  and rural areas.
10~-   f o  i   _Ir~pgea - AgricultuLral labor force (in farming,            Rural dwellings connected t-o electricity    )- Compuated as above for
foretry,tiaiting(jSfiniIg) as percentage of total lacor force,                 urura    dwellings only.
2Wloyedajoaflshorfmrce - Unemployed are usually defined as persons
toareab      wiilflingto take a job, out of a job on a given day,                  Consumption
remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum period              TiEYO7 re-eirs (per thou pop) -All types of receivers for radio broad-
not exceeding ene week; say not be coe,parable netween countries doie to              casts to general public Per thousand of populatios; excludes unlicensed
different definitions of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employ-                 rec eivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was
emnt office statisatics, sample surreys, compulsory unomploymenot insurance.          in effect; data for recent years may not be conpearablr since most
countries abolished licensing.
Income dit ibutIon     - Percentage of private inono (boll in cash and kind)          Passenger oars (per thou pep)- Passenger nara comprise motor care seat-
rs vdbyt rchSt 5inihs          0.pors        0,adpors          0   ftg less than, eigh t persons; cxcludes ambuilances, hearses and militarY
households,                                                                           vehicles.
AletricityAikwh/yr percap)       Annual con:sumption of industrial, con-
bistibitdionof laced ownership     Percentages of land owned by wealthiest              m          a,pbi  and privote electricity In kilowatt hours por capita;
1%adpoetI10%   flad owoers.                                                    genmerally based on production data, without allowacce for losses in
grids but allowing for imports and exports of electricity.
Heal1th andRuritonriotb ~k6                                                                                   er cap  - Per capita annual consunptioen  in bilograms
E!2rzjaypvsiia       - Popolatton divided by number of practicing                  estimtod rum     domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
pye clans qualile     tn a medical School at university level.



ANNLX I
Page 3 of 4 oages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODWUCT IN 1974                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                       1960 -65          1965 -70          1974
GNP at Market Prices          22479       100.0                        1.9               4.9             5.6
Gross Domestic Investment      4330        19.3                        3.3              11.5            19.2
Gross National Saving          4251        18.9                        5.8               5.1            64.8
Current Account Balance     -    79         0.4
Exports of Goods, NFS(net oil) 4351        19.4                        1.5               7.8             0.5
Imports of Goods, NFS         4220         18.8                        0.2              10.9            33.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                  Labor Force2/                 V. A. Per Worker
LS$ _Mln.   %=                  Mln.       %US $                        
Agriculture                   4221       44.8                30.5      69.0                  138         65
Industry                      1915       20.3                 3.o       6.8                  638        300
Services                      3279       34.9                 8.3      18.8                  395        185
Unallocated                    -           -                  2.4       5.4
Total/Average           .           .
9415      100.0                44.2     10o. o                -nlr       loo. o
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rp Blr4               f o   D
l9IUW76*                   19742; a2i  L
Current Receipts                     2166        1759          17.9     15.0
Current Bxpenditure                  i26         1001          10.2     10.8
Current Surplus                        776 7.7                           4.2
Capital Expenditures                 1273         966           9.8      7.3
External Assistance (net)             403         234           2.4      3.2
*Provisional estimates
MDNEY. CREDIT and PRICES                 1970         1971        1972        1973        1974         1975
(Billien  Rp.  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     330          469         695         987        1452        1995
Bank credit to Public Sector               57           78          16          27       - 36           44
Bank Credit to Private Sector             306          442         587         928        1364        2619
and State Enterprises
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           9.9         12.8        15.2        14.6        14.8
General Price Index (Sept. 1966=100)      612          638         680         891        1253        1492
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                        12.3          4.2         6.6        31.0        40.6        19.1
Bank credit to Public Sector             - 5.0           6.8      - 79.5        68.8
Bank credit to Private Sector              77.9           .4        32.3        53.1        47.Q        92.0
and State Ehterprises
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
V Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp. 390 - US$1.
Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.   "Unallocatede consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not arailable
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974     1975*                                             US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
E>orts:                      2173     4351      4778                  Oil (net)                    1897     50S4
Oil (net)                   564     2169     2957                   Rubber                        416     11.0
Non oil                    1609     2182     1821                   Timber                        602     16.0
Inmports                    -2817             -5424                   Palm oil                      132      3.5
Resource gap                6        11                             Tin                           138      3.7
Factor servrice:            -    158  - 210     508                   Coffee                         99      2.6
Intereat                  -46                 2
Iivestment income         -112     - 146    - 284               All other commodities            483     12 .8
Balance on current account - 802     -  79    -1204                    Total                      3       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment      290      462      506             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               572      664     2387                                                      US $ Mln
Amortization              -8       -  80    - 248
Subtotal                    405     38f      2139               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            7875
Capital Grants                  52       62      *                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            217    - 126    -2250               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               83    - 214    - 174
Increase in Reserves (+)       325             - 9F3             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for l975-
Gross Reserves (end year)      806     1473      590
Net Reserves   (end year)      783     1472      489               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           9.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Total outstanding &    Disbursed
Inports                        4        4       90
of which: Petroleum          2        1        86
Exports
of which: Petroleum (net) 564      2169      2957            IBRD/IDA Lending (August 31, 1976) (Million USS)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                   IBRD        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed             151.9      376.4
Through  JUZ 121              Since  Latlgt 1971             Undisbursed                         775.0      185.4
US Yj 1 00      US $          1.00 = hp, 415            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       926.9      561.8
I/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and inports of the oil coapanies).
*Provisional
.  not available
. not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
September 30, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1976)
Loan/                                                             US$ Million
Credit  Fiscal                                        Amount (less cancellation)
Number   Year              Purpose                     IDA    Bank  Undisbursed
Five credits closed                                    84.0             0.0
127     1969    Irrigation Rehabilitation               5.0             0.0
155     1969    Agricultural Estates                   16.0             0.1
194     1970     Second Agricultural Estates           17.0             1.5
195     1970    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation       18.5             0.7
210 /1  1971    Telecommunications Expansion           12.8             0.2
211     1971    Fisheries                               3.5             0.1
219     1971    Education                               4.6             0.3
220     1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation        14.5             1.5
246     1971     Seeds                                  7.5             1.9
259     1971    Tea                                    15.0             3.3
260     1971     Second Highway                        34.0             0.8
275     1972    Third Technical Assistance              4.0             0.7
288     1972     Second Education                       6.3             3.3
289     1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation       12.5             1.0
300     1972    Population                             13.2             7.4
310     1972    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)    10.0             1.0
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation       8.5             3.6
319     1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates            11.0             6.0
334     1973     Second Electricity Distribution       40.0            10.7
355     1973    Beef Cattle Development                 3.6             1.7
358     1973    North Sumatera Smallholder              5.0             2.3
Development
387     1973    Third Education                        13.5             9.8
388     1973    Third Highway                          14.0             4.8
399     1973    West Java Thermal Power               46.0             24.7
400     1973     Smallholder and Private Estate Tea     7.8             7.2
405     1973     Sugar Industry Rehabilitation         50.0            18.5
428     1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate          16.5            11.8
436     1974    Private Development Finance Co.
(PDFCI)                             10.0             6.8
451     1974     Fourth Technical Assistance            5.0             3.8
479     1974    Bali Tourism                           16.0            15.1
480     1974     Fisheries Credit                       6.5             5.6
514     1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension         30.0            29.2



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
Loan/                                                             US$ Million
Credit  Fiscal                                       Amount (less cancellation)
Number   Year                Purpose                   IDA    Bank  Undisbursed
1005     1974   Railway                                       48.0     44.1
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                     25.0     10.6
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                      14.5     13.0
1054     1975   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II)          50.0     34.4
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion                  115.0     19.8
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                              65.0     62.8
1127     1975   Fourth Power                                  41.0     38.0
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                       68.0     52.1
1179     1976   Agricultural Research and Extension           21.5     21.5
1197     1976   National Resource Survey and
Mapping                                    13.0      13.0
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                               130.0    130.0
1237     1976   Fourth Education                              37.0     36.7
1250 /2  1976   Second Shipping                               54.0     54.0
1254 /4  1976   Third Fertilizer (PUSRI IV)                   70.0     70.0
1259 7T  1976   Fifth Power                                   90.0     90.0
1267 /4  1976   National Food Crops Extensions                22.0     22.0
1268 /4  1976   Seventh Irrigation                            33.0     33.0
1318 /2  1977   Transmigration & Rural Development            30.0     30.0
Total                                561.8  927.0    960.4
of which has been repaid               0      0
Total now outstanding                561.8  927.0
Amount sold                    0.1
of which has been repaid     0.0            0.1
Total now held by Bank & IDA /3      561.8  926.9
Total undisbursed                    185.4  775.0    960.4
/1  Unused balance cancelled 9/22/76.
/2  Not Yet effective.
/3  Prior to exchange adjustment.
/4  Became effective in September 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1976)
Fiscal                                                      US$ Million
Year                                                 Loan   Equity   Total
1971      P. T. Semen Cibinong        Cement          10.6     2.5     13.1
1971      P. T. Unitex                Textiles         2.5     0.8      3.3
1971      P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia             Textiles         2.0     0.5      2.5
1971      P. T. Kabel Indonesia       Cable            2.8     0.4      3.2
1972      P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles         4.5     1.5      6.0
1973      P. T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism         11.0      -      11.0
1973      P. T. Semen Cibinong        Cement           5.4     0.7      6.1
1974      P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia             Textiles         2.0     0.3      2.3
1974      P. T. Monsanto Pan          Electronics      0.9      -       0.9
1974      P. T. PDFCI                 Devl. Fin. Co.    -      0.5      0.5
1974      P. T. Kamaltex              Textile          2.4     0.6      3.0
1974      P. T. Semen Cibinong        Cement           5.0     1.5      6.5
1976      P. T. Semen Cibinong        Cement            -      1.1      1.1
1977      P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles         0.1      -       0.1
Total                                       49.2    10.1     59.6
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled         21.1     1.7     22.8
Total held by IFC                           28.1     8.7     36.8
Undisbursed (including participants
portion)                                 3.7     0.7      4.4



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Cr. No. 127 Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$5 Million Credit of
September 6, 1968; Effective Date: March 25, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
All civil works were completed on March 31, 1976. Additional
drainage work in one subproject is being carried out with GOI funds. The
closing date has been postponed by one year to allow for payment of late
accounts.
Cr. No. 155 Agricultural Estates: US$16 Million Credit of June 20,
1969; Effective Date: December 10, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
With improvements in management and much higher international
prices, particularly for palm oil, prevailing in 1974, the financial
position of the estate groups has improved. Field and factory standards
have not been raised to a good technical level and the managements have
been advised to concentrate on cost control in order to prepare for the
time when produce prices may become less attractive. The combined efforts
of the management, consultants and IDA missions in reviewing project imple-
mentation are yielding good results. The closing date has been postponed
to December 31, 1976 to enable payment to consultants for existing contracts.
Cr. No. 194 Second Agricultural Estates: US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
After initial delay, there have been considerable improvements
in management and these, combined with high prices, particularly for palm
oil, have resulted in the two estate groups being put in a much stronger
financial position.    In the rubber group (PNP IV) more effort is necessary
to improve agricultural standards and tapping methods. With the rapid
expansion of investment of the palm oil group (PNP VI), there is a need to
employ expertise in financial planning, control and management, which are
now the main constraints to efficient development. This estate group is
undertaking action in this respect. The closing date has been postponed by
one year to allow payment for remaining equipment, civil works and consul-
tants' contracts.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
Cr. No. 195 Second Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: November 30, 1977.
Problems of quality and progress of construction still
exist, but the project entity assisted by the consultants are tackling
these vigorously, and the situation is improving, although not sufficiently
to make up for earlier delays. Costs are likely to be double the overall
appraisal estimate, due to inflation, but the Government will provide any
additional funds required and, because of higher rice prices, the project
will continue to have a satisfactory rate of return. Completion of disburse-
ments will be about two years behind the original schedule. The closing
date has been postponed by one year to allow additional time for the
completion of the power transmission line.
Cr. No. 211 Fisheries: US$3.5 Million Credit of July 13, 1970;
Effective Date: January 15, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The project is about three years behind the original schedule due
to delays in engaging consultants and in executing contracts for the shore
facilities and the fishing vessels. There has also been a substantial
project cost increase which, coupled with delays and continued poor manage-
ment, has placed the eventual profitability of the project in jeopardy,
despite greatly increased skipjack prices. The first stage of operation of
project facilities is expected to start shortly, and full operation should
be reached by the end of 1977. The closing date of this credit has been
postponed by two years in order to continue payments to consultants assisting
the project entity.
Cr. No. 219 Education: US$4.6 Million Credit of November 6, 1970;
Effective Date: January 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Project implementation in the Department of Education has been
satisfactory. Civil works for the five Technical Training Centers (TTCs)
have been completed. About 90 percent of the equipment has been purchased
and about 60 percent delivered and installed. All TTCs began to operate at
full capacity in January 1976 when the new academic year started. Over 500
technical teachers have completed or are about to complete their training.
Technical assistance financed by the U.K. for the project is also satisfac-
tory.   Revised total project cost is now about 40 percent above appraisal
estimate. The Government will finance the cost overrun. The project is
expected to be completed about three months ahead of schedule, a completion
mission is presently in the field.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Cr. No. 220 Third Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Construction remains about two to three years behind schedule.
The problems. which caused this delay - difficulties in preparation of
contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy rains in the 1973
construction season and, more recently, slow response by GOI to high
inflation rates and consequent civil works costs overruns - have been
mainly overcome, but time lost cannot be regained. Estimated project cost
is 50 percent above the appraisal estimate, but with higher rice prices on
the world market, the project's economic rate of return remains over 20
percent. The closing date has been postponed by 18 months as a result of
project delay.
Cr. No. 246 Seeds: US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Significant progress has been made in the construction of the
irrigation infrastructure and in land development at the National Seeds
Corporation (NSC). Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and is
now 70 percent completed. The inadequacy of NSC management at the opera-
tional level is reflected in technical production problems, low yields of
seed and high costs of production. Increasing nation-wide production
problems caused by prevalent disease, pests and insects have resulted in
government authorities now giving certified seed production high priority.
Cr. No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded appraisal
expectations necessitating construction and rehabilitation of three addi-
tional factories. Project completion, estimated for December 1977, can
probably be advanced by up to one year. Rising costs are creating pressure
on available funds and the main challenge for the two PTPs will be to
reduce working capital requirements, as well as overhead and indirect
costs, and improve labor productivity.
Cr. No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Construction work is about 80 percent finished and should be
completed before the end of 1976, about one and a half years behind schedule.
The delay was caused largely by slow progress in mobilizing contractors,
difficulties in equipment delivery, heavy rains and landslides. The closing



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
-e has therefore been postponed by 15 months to December 31, 1976. Design
standards for the road sections have been slightly lowered and some savings
have been achieved which, together with other savings, have partly offset
construction cost increases of 12 percent.
Cr. No. 275 Third Technical Assistance: US$4.0 Million Credit of
December 29, 1971; Effective Date: February 25,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress on this project is satisfactory. The closing date has
been postponed by another year to complete disbursements for ongoing
studies.
Cr. No. 288 Second Education: US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This agricultural training project, being implemented by the
Department of Agriculture, is about 12 months delayed because of the late
appointment of consultant architects, lack of counterpart funds, delays
in bid analysis and in awarding contracts. The main causes of delay have
been overcome. About 45 percent furniture and 80 percent equipment have
been contracted. Unlike the physical aspects of the project, the educa-
tional aspects are generally on schedule. Total project costs are now
estimated to be 90 percent higher than the original estimate. Government
has budgeted for the cost overrun. Disbursement, which has been slow, is
improving since civil works contracts have now been awarded. However,
delayed implementation may necessitate postponement of the closing date by
about one year.
Cr. No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
Civil Works for the main project, Pekalen-Sampean, are proceeding
but completion will be about two years behind schedule. Due to inflation,
project costs are likely to be substantially higher than appraisal estimates.
Consultants for the various studies have completed their work. Disbursements
are on schedule.
Cr. No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Progress of this project is generally satisfactory. Steps
are being taken to improve preparation and implementation of project
components concerned with communications, research and evaluation. All
vehicles have been procured and good progress is being made with equipment



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
procurement. The civil works section of the Project Implementation Unit
functions well but is underutilized because of delays in making policy
decisions. Construction costs will exceed appraisal estimates by 135
percent. Population education is now being introduced into school curricula
after a successful trial. Despite its limitations, the national family
planning program, of which the project is an integral part, is expanding
annually and showing good results.
Cr. No. 310 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I): US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This credit is fully committed.
Cr. No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Progress on this project is slow but funds are expected to be
fully committed by September 30., 1977. Due to substantial cost increases,
only about half of the anticipated tonnage will be rehabilitated.
Cr. No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Physical progress of the project which is being executed by PNP/X,
a Government-owned estate group, continues to be satisfactory, with plant-
ings of rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent
condition. Coffee is a promising crop, and cloves planted in 1974 are
growing well. A hybrid coconut seed garden is being established, the first
in Indonesia. PNP X management need to pay more attention to cost control
and to financial planning. Substantial cost increases have taken place
largely due to an expansion in the size of the program compared with the
appraisal report. The Government has agreed to provide part of the short-
fall in project funding and discussions with the Government are proceeding
on a proposed increase in the budgetary allocation. PNP X is keen to
participate in smallholder development.
Cr. No. 334 Second Electricity Distribution: US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND
and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays
due to procurement problems and cumbersome management procedures. As a
result the project is two years behind the original schedule. These
difficulties have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. No
further delays are therefore expected.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
Cr. No 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. The last supervision mission under-
took a thorough project review and its recommendations, which include major
changes in project scope and objectives, are presently under discussion
with Government.
Cr. No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: US$5 Million
Credit of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project performance, which had suffered from severe finnancial
and organizational difficulties, has improved greatly. Physical progress
is encouraging; rubber planting and rice intercropping are now on schedule.
There is considerable room for improvement in financial management, in
which consultants are assisting. Total project costs are now estimated
at about three times the original estimate of US$10 million. Disbursements
are expected to be completed ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 387  Third Education:   US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1,
1973; Effective Date: August 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is about ten months behind schedule, mainly due to
insufficient top management staff and paper shortages last year. Manage-
ment has been strengthened by the addition of Indonesian staff to the
project unit and by new arrangements for consultant specialist services.
The paper shortage has been overcome and printing and distribution of the
first 31 million text books was completed in fiscal 1976, about four months
behind schedule. The book testing and teacher training programs are on
schedule but their results have not yet been evaluated. Procurement and
delivery of vehicles is largely completed. All instructional equipment has
been procured and is being packaged in Jakarta in preparation for delivery
to local areas.
Cr. No. 388 Third Highways: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections in the
project was started early in 1974 under two contracts and is now 60 percent
completed. Contractors have been delayed mainly because of long mobilization
periods and heavy rains. Project costs will likely exceed original estimates
(including contingencies) by 57 percent mainly due to sharply escalated
prices. The training program has been completed successfully.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
Cr. No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 10O mw units at Muara Karang
were about 65 percent higher than estimated at the time of appraisal.
This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in an
increase in the total project cost of more than 100 percent.    Government
will provide the additional funds required. PLN has satisfactorily met the
initial targets in its financial recovery plan provided for under the terms
of the Credit Agreement.
Cr. No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: US$7.8 Million
Credit of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Planting is presently slightly behind schedule but it is expected
that targets will be achieved or even exceeded by the end of the 1976/77
planting season. The estate field program has not been started. However,
recently some loan applications have been processed and it is likely that
by 1977 the estate program will be on target. Project nurseries are well
organized and field work is proceeding well. Nonparticipating farmers
have also benefited from the project. Total project costs are estimated to
be double the amount originally envisaged and project management is attempt-
ing to achieve cost reductions. Due to the high prices for tea (about twice
the level expected at the time of appraisal), the economic rate of return is
still satisfactory.
Cr. No. 405 Sugar Industry Rehabilitation: US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
In view of the rapid and continuing, increase in the cost of sugar
factory machinery and the more recent shortage of budgetary funds, the
scope of the above-mentioned project has been reduced by the deletion of
six minor rehabilitations from the project description. The revised
project consists of the major rehabilitation of two factories and the
construction of a new factory. Credit funds have been reallocated from the
minor to the major rehabilitation and to the new construction.
Cr. No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Of 430 ha, earmarked for the project, about 270 ha had been
acquired by June 1976, and 116 ha had been developed for occupation.
Eighty-nine factories are located on the estate of which 48 are operat-
ing and 41 are in various stages of construction or commission.    The
rate "f new applications for land allotment has been slower in recent
months than in the past and the estate is intensifying its promotional
efforts. Overall, operations are profitable, despite an increase in
construction costs.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
Cr. No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI): US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
After a long start-up period and difficulties in finding and
recruiting qualified local staff, PDFCI has now reached the operating
stage. Commitments have started and are expected to increase as PDFCI's
own operational capability improves.
Cr. No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Project implementation has improved after initial difficulties.
The evaluations for project tenders have been approved by IDA. The earliest
possible completion date has shifted from February 1979 to October 1979.
Budgetary allocations as requested by the Bali Tourism Development Corpora-
tion for FY76/77 are satisfactory. Negotiations with three potential hotel
investors are underway. Promotional efforts to attract additional investors
have been intensified in 1976.
Cr. No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Lending for fishponds is now on schedule, the initial construction
of shore facilities at Ambon has begun and contracts for boat construction
and boat equipment have been awarded. Although significant cost increases
are envisaged, the project is still expected to be financially viable
because of increases in fish prices. The trawler subproject is being held
in abeyance, as its justification is now in question.
Cr. No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The consultants are now making good progress in designing works
and preparing contract documents. The first civil works contract is
expected to be awarded in October 1976, about one year behind the original
schedule, due in part to delays in loan signing.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1005 Railway: US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement of material and equipment, which had been slow due to
poor organization and inadequate budget allocation, has now improved. Bids
have been received for most items and the bulk of the contracts should be
signed soon. Passenger traffic in 1975 was slightly lower than in 1974,
but still higher than forecast; freight traffic has continued to decline
due mainly to poor maintenance and inadequate motive power, which should
improve towards the end of 1976. Although tariffs were raised in May
1975, increasing passenger revenues by about 25 percent and freight revenues
by about 10 percent, the operating ratio is likely to deteriorate further,
as operating costs have continued to rise at a faster rate.
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress on the Kampung Improvement Program has been very good;
costs were less than estimated, allowing additional work to be undertaken.
Execution of the.Klender Sites and Services Scheme is one year behind
schedule due to delays in obtaining approval of project design, but
tenders for construction have now been issued.
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is
running 13-18 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher
rates of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs
25-30 percent above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and
preparation of tender documents have been completed and the project has
reached its construction phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of
Sanitary Engineering and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises are proceeding satisfactorily. An interdepartmental decree to
govern the relationship of the Water Enterprises to the Central Government
has been prepared to be issued jointly by the Ministeries of Public Works
and Interior.
Loan No. 1054 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II): US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Commitments and disbursements were initially slower than expected
but they have increased in the second half of FY76. The progress of this
project is satisfactory and the loan is likely to be fully committed by
December 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
Work on the PUSRI III project is proceeding according to schedule.
Work on the related gas pipeline is delayed but steps have been taken to
expedite implementation.
Loan No. 1100 Sixth Irrigation: US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Consultants for the project and technical assistance advisors
have been selected. Construction work is about five months behind schedule
due to the delay in selection of consultants.
Loan No. 1127 Fourth Power: US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The options for a third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang, which
were included in the tenders for the first two units financed under Credit
399, have been exercised. The project is on schedule and expected to be
completed during 1978.
Loan No. 1139 Fertilizer Distribution: US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date:   August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress in design is satisfactory. About 60 percent of the
equipment and materials required for the project have been ordered.
Loan No. 1179  Agricultural Research and Extension:    US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on February 23, 1976. A project
implementation unit has been established. Substantial progress has been
made in establishing and staffing the headquarters of the Agency for
Research and Development and in directing and integrating the research work
on the four crop/commodity groups to be supported through the project.
Loan No. 1197  National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:    US$13.0
Million Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on April 2, 1976. The project agency,
BAKOSURTANAL, has made considerable progress in project implementation.
Detailed designs for project facilities and tender documents have been
completed and tendering should be completed in October 1976. Preparation



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
of equipment specifications and planning of aerial photography operations
to support detailed resource surveys of the southern Sumatra region are also
proceeding. Senior project staff have been appointed.
Loan No. 1236 Fourth Highway Project: US$130 Million Loan of April 15
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan became effective on August 13, 1976. Seven consultancy
contracts have been signed and almost more than half of the project road
works have been tendered.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan became effective on June 17, 1976. Project implementa-
tion units have been established for all components of the project.
Although some delays have occurred in contract negotiations with consultant
architects and signing Funds-in-Trust Agreements with technical assistance
agencies, agreements have now been reached and contracts are expected to be
signed within three months. Site selection and acquisition is generally
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1250 Second Shipping Project: US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan is expected to become effective by October 20, 1976.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1976.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
This loan was declared effective on September 20, 1976.
Loan No. 1267 Food Crops Extension Project: US$22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective on September 21, 1976.
Loan No. 1268 Seventh Irrigation Project: US$33 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on September 21, 1976.
Loan No. 1318 Transmigration and Rural Development Project: US$30 million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan is expected to become effective by October 19, 1976.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
INDONESIA: SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:               The special district of Jakarta (DKI) and
the city of Surabaya
Amount:                    US$52.5 million
Terms:                     20 years including four and one-half years of
grace at an interest rate of 8.7 percent per
annum.
Relending Terms:
Under subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory
to the Bank, the Government would lend to DKI
about $44 million and to Surabaya about $4 million
of the loan proceeds to finance about 50 percent
of project costs. The subsidiary loans would have
an interest rate one quarter of one percent higher
than the interest rate on the Bank loan and would
have the same maturity schedule, but interest would
be waived during the grace period.
Project Description:       In both Jakarta and Surabaya the project consists
of a program of public works for the improvement
of low-income neighborhoods during the three-year
period FY77-79. The project also includes:
(a) construction of paved footpaths, roads, drain-
age, water supply, sanitation, primary schools and
small health clinics; (b) a pilot health program
to train community health workers in preventive
medicine and basic nutrition; (c) equipment for
the schools and health clinics; and (d) technical
assistance for design of a national Kampung improve-
ment program design, supervision of project execu-
tion, and monitoring and evaluation; for analysis
of major infrastructure investment in metropolitan
Jakarta; for feasibility studies of urban develop-
ment projects in medium-sized cities; and for
support of the government property tax improvement
program.
Financing Plan:            The proposed loan of $52.5 million would finance
about 50 percent of total project costs, includ-
ing the estimated foreign exchange component of
$28.0 million. The remaining $52.3 million would
be provided by GOI ($2.3 million); DKI ($45.0 mil-
lion); Surabaya ($5.0 million).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Project Costs:             The table below summarizes the cost of the
project:
Foreign Local Total
($ million)
Kampung Improvement Program:
Jakarta
Civil works                16.5     48.1   64.6
Land acquisition
(community facilities)       -      4.7    4.7
Equipment (community
facilities)               0.4      1.0    1.4
Garbage trucks              0.2        -    0.2
Health training
program                      -      -.3   0-3
Subtotal              17.1     54.1   71.2
Kampung Improvement Program:
Surabaya
Civil works                 1.2      3.6    4.8
(Supratman Program)         0.6      1.9    2.5
Land acquisition
(community facilities)       -      0.8    0.8
Equipment (community
facilities)                0.1      0.1    0.2
Garbage trucks              0.1      0.01   0.1
Health training program
Subtotal               2.0      6.4    8.4
Technical Assistance:
Feasibility Studies         1.0      0.3    1.3
KIP Design and
Supervision                1.7      0.3    2.0
KIP Monitoring and
Evaluation                   -      0.2    0.2
Management Assistance
for National Urban
Development Corporation    0.5      0.1    0.6
Metropolitan Jakarta
Planning                   0.3             0.4
Property Tax Program        0.2      0.1    0.3
Subtotal               3.7      1.0    4.7
Base Cost                  22.8     61.5   84.3
Price Contingencies         5.3     15.2   20.5
Total Project Cost         28.1     76.6  104.8



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Estimated                  Bank FY        1977   1978     1979    1980
Disbursements:
($million)
Annual          13.4   17.3    19.3     2.5
Cumulative      13.4   30.7    50.0    52.5
Procurement:               Contracts for civil works totalling about $72
million, most of which would be valued below
$600,000, would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, following local advertising
in accordance with usual government procurement
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracts for works with an estimated value of
$20 million are expected to have been awarded by
September 1, 1976, in order to permit mobiliza-
tion before the October-November rainy season.
Equipment and furniture totalling about $1.4
million, would be procured following usual Gov-
ernment procurement procedures, which are satis-
factory to the Bank.
Technical                  Consultant services, estimated to cost about
Assistance:              $4.7 million, will be included for the
following activities:
(a)  KIP national program development,
including supervision of project
execution;
(b)  Project monitoring and evaluation;
(c)  Metropolitan Jakarta physical planning
analysis;
(d)  Property tax improvement program; and
(e)  Management assistance to NUDC; and
(f)  Feasibility studies of urban development
projects in selected medium-sized cities.
It is estimated that about 57 man-years will be
required.
Rate of Return:            The economic rate of return for the Jakarta KIP is
54 percent, for the Surabaya KIP about 100 percent,
and the weighted economic rate of return for the
entire project is 59 percent.
Appraisal Report:          No. 1184-IND, dated September 23, 1976, Urban
Projects Department.






I BRD 107 28 R2
N~~~~           1~A  17
|  6t,   t       i      ~~~~~~KALIMANTAN
SUMATERA       REnLITM
Java      Sea                                                                       \        eJ  u -b.1un
JA6S V 3|ECT AREA
0             MAR~~~~URA
A                           R TN SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
\   9                                                   X              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KAMPUNG   IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM   D.K.I.
\-l Ilih \ | E 'v;1 L t i - _ t 1I E:::::::::::i ~~~~~~~~~~KAMPUNGS IMPFIOVED DURING PELITA I (1969-1974) 2,400 ha
\ 0 .. , 1 ..... ~~~~~~T21S............... \NERNATlOA'AL            D.KAMF-UNGS IMPROVED IN FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
t X z n P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KMPU NGS TO B E IMPROV ED IN FIS YEAR OF THE SEwCOND
~                                                                             ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R J C   ( 1 7 _ 9 7 ) 9 0 h






IBRD-12209
MAY 1976
JA VA        SEA                                                        INDONESI A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KAMPUNG     IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
SURABAYA
KAMPUNGS IN SUB-STANDARD PHYSICAL CONDITION
KAMPUNGS TO BE IMPROVED IN 1976/77(S5ha)
-      -~~~ROADS
. --  RAILWAYS
x                                   ----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CITY LIMITS
V        e S  t   zSlCANALS AND RIVERS
c  JLANT                                    SCALE NOT AVAILABLE
ANV ~   ~    '
SOURCE: UNIVERSITAS PETRA 1973
SURVEY OF SUBSTANDARD HOUSING
JA VA  A
INDIAN  OCEAN
P3~~~~~~~10                        lo!



