CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1336-IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 4 , 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 4, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF
IN)ONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Cipta Kary" means the Directorate General of Housing,
Building, Planning and Urban Development in the Borrower's Minis-
try of Public Works and Electric Power.
(b) "DKI" means Daerah Khusus Ibukota Jakarta, the Special
District of Jakarta.
(c) "Rupiah" means Rupiah in currency of the Borrower.
(d) "IPEDA" means luran Pembangunan Daerah, contributions
for regional development collected from land owners, established
and levied under Law No. ll/PRP/1959 of the Borrower and under
such regulations as may be issued from time to time in accordance
with said Law.


﻿-3-
(e) "NUDO" means Perum Pembangunan Perumahan Nasional (National
Urban Development Corporation), a public corporation established
and operating pursuant to Government Regulation No. 29 of 1974 of
the Borrower.
(f) "PUOD" means the Directorate General of Public Affairs
and Local Autonowr in the Borrower's Ministry of Home Affairs.
(g) "Law No. 5 of 1974" means law of the Borrower on the
principles of local government.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
two million five hundred thousand dollars ($52,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1980, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-5-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amrtization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, engineering and financial prac-
tices, as follows:
(i) Part A of the Project shall be carried out by DKI
under the supervision of Cipta Karya;
(ii) Part B of the Project shall be carried out by the
City of Surabaya under the supervision of Cipta
Karya;
(iii) Part C (1), (2), (5) and (6) of the Project shall
be carried out by Cipta Kara;
(iv) Part C (3) of the Project shall be carried out by
DKI and the City of Surabaya, respectively, under
the supervision of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower; and
(r) Part C (4) of the Project shall be carried out by
NUDC.
In accordance with Law No. 5 of 1974, PUOD shall exercise general
supervisory functions as appropriate to facilitate the execution
of the Project. The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided,


﻿-7-
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other re-
sources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all its departments, agencies
and political subdivisions and all departments and agencies of
its political subdivisions, responsible for carrying out the Proj-
ect or any part thereof, to cooperate effectively with each other
in the execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. Part A and Part B of the Project shall be car-
ried out in accordance with the design standards set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
time to time on account of expenditures for Part A of the Project
shall be onlent under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Bor-
rower and DKI on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Such
terms and conditions shall include, inter alia, that: (i) the prin-
cipal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be the equivalent in
terms of Rupiah of the proceeds of the Loan so withdrawn (such
equivalent to be determined as of the respective dates of with-
drawal); (ii) the prinipal amount of the subsidiary loan shall
be repaid over a period of twenty years starting on the date of
signing of the subsidiary loan agreement, including a grace period
of four and one half years; and (iii) the subsidiary loan shall
bear interest at an annual rate that shall be one fourth of one
per cent (1/4 of 1%) higher than the interest rate specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, provided, however, that no interest
shall accrue during said grace period. Except as the Bank shall


﻿-8-
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the subsidiary loan agreement or any provision thereof.
(b) The proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from time to time on
account of expenditures for Part B of the Project shall be onlent
under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the
City of Surabaya on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Such terms and conditions shall include, inter alia, the terms
and conditions specified in paragraph (a) of this Section. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the subsidiary loan agreement or any pro-
vision thereof.
(c) The proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from time to time on
account of expenditures for Part C (4) of the Project shall be
made available to NUDC in the form of an equity contribution.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the following
consultants and experts with qualifications and experience accept-
able to the Bank will be employed on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank:
(a) by Cipta Krya, consultants to assist Cipta Kary   in the
supervision of Part A and Part B of the Project and in carrying
out Part C (1), (2), (5) and (6) of the Project;
(b) by the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, experts to
assist DKI and the City of Surabaya in carrying out Part C (3) of
the Project; and


﻿9
(c) by NUDC, consultants to assist in the carrying out of
Part C (4) of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause DKI:
(a) to appoint and thereafter maintain on its staff an ade-
quate number of full-time supervisors of DKI's health programs in
the kampungs improved under Part A of the Project; and
(b) to ensure that sufficient liquid funds are at all times
available to meet the costs of Part A of the Project as and when
they are incurred.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the City of Surabaya:
(a) to appoint and thereafter maintain an adequate number
of full-time supervisors of the health programs of the City of
Surabaya in the kampungs improved under Part B of the Project;
(b) to ensure that sufficient liquid funds are at all times
available to meet the costs of Part B of the Project as and when
they are incurred; and
(c) to establish and thereafter maintain a separate Kampung
Improvement Project Unit, operating under the supervision of com-
petent and experienced directors assisted by qualified staff in
adequate numbers, and to be charged with the planning and imple-
mentation of Part B of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause DKI and the City
of Surabaya each to establish and thereafter to maintain accounts
and records adequate to reflect separately in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its resources
and expenditures on account of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DKI and the City of Surabaya
each: (i) to have such accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) to
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) to furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning said accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably re-
quest.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of Cipta
Karya and the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of


﻿9                          -11 -
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate tc record the progress of the Project (in-
cluding the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services fi-
nanced out of such proceeds.


﻿- 12-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 13 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that DKI and the
City of Surabaya will at all times operate and maintain the facil-
ities and the equipment provided under the Project, and promptly
as required make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound education, public utility and engineering
standards, and use such equipment to serve regularly the urban
areas covered by the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the schools and health clinics
provided under the Project to be supplied and operated at all times
in accordance with appropriate educational or health practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall through DKI and the City of
Surabaya carry out its IPEDA Tax Improvement Program for Jakarta


﻿- 14
and Surabaya and cause DKI and the City of Surabaya each year to
evaluate, and to report to the Borrower on, the implementation of
that Program and to furnish to the Bank a copy of such report.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall enable accredited represen-
tatives of the Bank to exchange views with representatives of DKI
and the City of Surabaya with regard to the progress of the Proj-
ect and the benefits derived therefrom, and the administration,
operations, resources and expenditures of DKI and the City of
Surabaya, respectively, with regard to the Project, and the Bor-
rower shall cause DKI and the City of Surabaya to furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
for that purpose.


﻿-15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the subsidiary loan agreements referred to in Section 3.03 of
this Agreement have been duly executed and delivered, and authorized
and ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank, namely, that the subsidiary loan agreements referred
to in the preceding Section have been duly authorized and ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the respective parties
thereto, and constitute valid and binding obligations of the res-
pective parties thereto in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 5.03. The date February 4, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-16-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                        JKT 44319
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64i145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar_quivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for            35,000,000         50%
Part A or Part B (1)
of the Project
(2) Civil works for               500,000         4o%
Part B (2) of the
Project
(3) Furniture and equip-        1,200,000         100% of foreign
ment for schools                              expenditures and
and health clinics                           95% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory
(4) Consultants and             3,500,000         100% of foreign
experts                                      expenditures and
75% of local ex-
penditures
(5) Unallocated                12,300,000
TOTAL      52,500,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of Lny country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicible to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $3,500,000 may be made
in respect of Category (1) and withdrawals in an aggregate amount


﻿- 20 -
not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 may be made in respect of
Category (4) on account of payments made for such expenditures be-
fore that date; and
(b) on account of Part B of the Project until evidence satis-
factory to the Bank will have been furnished to the Bank showing
that the City of Surabaya has established the Kampung Improvement
Project Unit described in Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement and
has appointed the Director of the Unit.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the pro-
cedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 21 -
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limit-
ing any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A    Jakarta
(1) A program of public works with an aggregate cost of
eighty-nine million dollars ($89,000,000) equivalent
included under the ongoing Kampung Improvement Program
of DKI for its fiscal years 1976/77 through 1978/79,
now estimated to cover an area of about 3,000 ha.,
providing footpaths, secondary roads, surface drainage
ditches, public water supply, sanitary facilities,
schools, health clinics, health offices and garbage
collection facilities in kampungs selected with the
concurrence of the Bank.
(2) A pilot program, acceptable to the Bank, of training
of about 360 community health workers in providing basic
health, hygiene, family planning and nutrition education
to Kampung residents in Jakarta.
Part B    Surabaya
(1) A program of public works for kampung improvement with
an aggregate cost of seven million three hundred
thousand dollars ($7,300,000) equivalent included
under the Modified Supratman Program of the City of


﻿- 23 -
Surabaya and now estimated to cover about 374 ha., pro-
viding footpaths, secondary roads, surface drainage ditches,
public water supply, sanitary facilities, schools, health
clinics, health offices and garbage collection facilities
in kampungs selected with the concurrence of the Bank.
(2) A program of public works for kampung improvement with
an aggregate cost of two million five hundred thousand
dollars ($2,500,000) equivalent included under the
Supratman Program of the City of Surabaya, under which
program Kampung residents contribute in cash or in kind
the equivalent of about 50% of the investment costs of
the public works included in the program.
(3) A pilot program, acceptable to the Bank, of training of
about 100 community health workers in providing basic
health, hygiene, family planning and nutrition education
to kampung residents.
Part C    Studies and Training
(1) A program, acceptable to the Bank, of assistance to, and
training of staff of, DKI and the City of Surabaya in
engineering and accountancy for kampung improvement proj-
ects.
(2) Evaluation of alternative economic and physical growth
strategies for the Greater Jakarta area (consisting of
DKI and the regencies of Bekasi, Bogor and Tangerang
in the Province of West Java) and assessment of the
investment implications of the alternative strategies.


﻿(3) Implementation of IPEDA tax reforms in Jakarta and
Surabaya and a program of property valuation in Jakarta
and training of DKI staff in surveying and property val-
uat ion.
(4) A program, acceptable to the Bank, of assistance to, and
training of the staff of, NUDC in program planning, fi-
nance and engineering supervision.
(5) Monitoring and evaluation of the economic, social and
health impact of Part A and Part B of the Project.
(6) Studies of the feasibility of urban development projects
in medium size Indonesian cities selected by the Borrower
with the concurrence of the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1981
through February 15, 1996                     1,700,000
On August 15, 1996                                 1,500,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2.6o%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                           4.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                           6.95%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                           7.85%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                           8.70%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Copetitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Civil works contractors for Part A of the Project shall be
registered with DKI, and civil works contractors for Part B of the
Project shall be registered with the City of Surabaya; they shall
be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1.3
of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Schedule,
invitations for civil works, furniture and equipment shall be
advertised only in the Indonesian press and no other notification
thereof shall be required.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods% Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their


﻿- 28 -
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to DKI or the City of Surabaya of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Indo-
nesia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.


﻿- 29 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods of-
fered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further com-
parison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid;
or"{ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties .and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. Before qualification is invited,
the Bank shall be informed in detail of the procedure to be followed,


﻿-30-
and such modifications shall be introduced in said procedure as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the decision on prequalification, and such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, shall be made in the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for furniture or equipment es-
timated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, there shall be furnished to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a descrip-
tion of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding,
and such modifications shall be made in the said documents or pro-
cedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modifi-
cation to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concur-
rence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated and before
a final decision on the award is made, the Bank shall be informed
of the name of the bidder to which the contract is intended to
be awarded and shall be furnished in sufficient time for its re-
view, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the


﻿- 31 -
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract for furniture or equipment, or
for civil works costing $300,000 equivalent or more, to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, there shall be furnished to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in res-
pect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, to-
gether with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request; for civil works contracts said bid analysis shall be made
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agree-
ment. In respect of civil works costing less than $300,000 equiva-
lent and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, conformed
copies of the contracts together with the analysis of the bids
therefor and the recommendations for their award shall be kept in


﻿- 32 -
Indonesia for inspection by representatives of the Bank, and the
Bank shall each calendar quarter be furnished with a report by the
consultants referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement
which reviews the prequalification, tender preparation, bidding,
bid evaluation and contract award procedures applied in the pro-
curement of the contracts for such civil works that were signed
during the immediately preceding calendar quarter. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of a contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 5
Design Standards -
Part A and Part B of Project
The following design standards shall be applied in the execu-
tion of Part A and Part B of the Project, subject to such minor
modifications or departures as shall be reasonably required to
meet the needs and priorities of residents or otherwise justified
for reason of economy and efficiency.
(a) Roads and Footpaths
1.   Vehicular Roads -
All dwellings at most 100 m from a one-way road
and at most 300 m from a two-way road with at
least a width of 4 meters paved surface, bordered
by 1-meter drainage channels.
2.   Paved Footpaths -
Paved footpaths with 1.50 meters paved surface and
0.75-meter drainage channels, for every dwelling
not located on a road.
(b) Water Supply
About 20 liters per person per day from public water
taps connected either to the municipal system by means


﻿distibuton  -34-
of a distribution system with a potential capacity of
60 liters per person per day or deep tube wells; public
water taps shall be provided in sufficient numbers ade-
quately to serve the residents, taking into account exist-
ing private facilities. For Jakarta, the number of taps
will, as a minimum, be:
for the North District        1 per 5 ha.
for the South District        1 per 20 ha.
for the East District         1 per 20 ha.
for the West District         1 per 8 ha.
for the Central District      1 per 3 ha.
(c) Sanitation
1.   Sanitary Facilities -
For each dwelling one toilet with pit privies
where feasible; where space or groundwater condi-
tions do not permit pit privies, small communal
toilet facilities with septic tanks will be con-
structed.
2. Garbage Carts -
Carts with a capacity of 2 m  shall be provided
to serve 8 hectares each on a regular schedule
of house collections, and deposits at garbage
boxes.


﻿-35 -
3.   Garbage Boxes -
Garbage boxes with a 6 m3 capacity shall be
provided to serve about 65 dwellings.
4.   Garbage Trucks and Trailers -
Garbage trucks shall be provided to serve about
150,000 people each in Jakarta; tractors with 4
garbage trailers each shall be provided to serve
about 40,000 people each in Surabaya.
(d) Schools
Elementary schools shall be constructed to serve in
combination and on a double-shift basis at least 75%
of the children eligible to attend grades 1-6 and
living in the kampungs included in Part A and Part B
of the Project.
(e) Health Clinics
Health clinics (puskesmas) will be constructed in Jakarta
and Surabaya in such number and in such location as to
provide adequate health clinic services to each Kampung
included in Part A or Part B on the basis of one clinic
for approximately 30,000 residents.
30 health offices (pos Kesehatan) will be built in
Jakarta and 5 health offices in Surabaya.


