Report No. PID11504
Project Name                     UGANDA-Local Government Development (@)
Program II (LGDP II)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           General water; sanitation and flood protection
sector (35%); Primary
education (30%); Roads and highways (25%); Health (10%)
Project ID                       P077477
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Address: Program Management Unit, Ministry of
Local Government
Contact Person: Mr. Martin Onyach-Olaa
Tel: (256-41) 232-741
Fax: (256-41) 232-936
Email: peri@imul.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 20, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              February 19, 2003
Bank Approval Date               May 29, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government's strategy for economic transformation is spelled out in
its Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP), a medium-term development plan
that guides government policy and provides a framework for detailed sector
and local government plans. The PEAP appeared in 1997, after 18 months of
consultation with key stakeholders. It was revised in the spring of 2000
and a summary of the revised PEAP was presented as Uganda's Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) to the boards of the Bank and the
International Monetary Fund in May 2000.
The PRSP focuses on four key pillars: (a) directly increasing the ability
of the poor to raise their incomes; (b) directly increasing the quality of
life of the poor; (c) creating an enabling environment for economic growth
and structural transformation; and (d) ensuring good governance and
security, including improvement in public service delivery and
decentralization.
A cornerstone of the Government's strategy is its decentralization policy.
This policy is mandated by the 1995 constitution, and its basic structure
is laid out in the 1997 Local Governments Act. It is further elaborated in
the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development "Letter of
Sector Policy on Fiscal Devolution, Control and Management of Public
Expenditure" of October 1999. It is important to note that local
governments play a key role in implementation of the Government's
PEAP/PRSP, including primary education and health, as well as physical
infrastructure. Thus, the evolving relationships between central and local
governments, including most sectors, is crucial to the success of



Government's strategy. These relationships include inter alia fiscal and
institutional capacity dimensions. Also of vital concern for the strategy
is downward accountability at the local level, based on transparent and
highly participatory decision making and monitoring of implementation.
The Local Government Development Program (LGDP I) was designed as a
demand-driven project, with its implementation carried out in the context
of hard budget constraints, transparent eligibility and access criteria
for participating in the project aimed at achieving improved service
delivery standards. LGDP I provides a modality for transferring
development funds from the Center to the local governments in line with
the provisions of the Constitution (1995), and the Local Governments
(Amendments) Act, 1997. This is to ensure that services that have been
mandated to the local governments are not only sustainable, delivered on a
timely basis, and with value for money, but also are delivered through a
process which is fully in accordance with the law and regulations. Those
local governments which have accessed the funding will only continue
receiving this funding if they continue to meet the minimum conditions.
The internal and the national assessments determine the level of
performance, against a set of predetermined indicators, of the beneficiary
local governments. Those which score favorably against the indicators have
a reward in the form of an increase by 20% of the allocation of the
previous year while others scoring below a minimum threshold have their
previous year's allocation reduced by 209.   Under tranche 1 of LGDP I,
development grants were provided to 54 higher level local governments
(HLGs), increasing to 65 HLGs under tranche 3 out of a total of 74 HLGs.
LGDP II is conceived as the second phase of LGDP I. It will involve all
74 HLGs and more than 1000 lower level local governments (LLGs).
An assessment of the results of the LGDP I Development Grant tranches 1 &
2 was carried out by the Government of Uganda. Under tranche 1, a total
of 2,270 projects were completed, and the overall quality of 77% of those
projects was rated as satisfactory or highly satisfactory by the
respective local governments while only 1% were rated as unsatisfactory
and 22% were not yet fully assessed. Under tranche 2, a total of 2,354
projects were completed and 92% of those projects were rated as
satisfactory or higher. The total cost of the completed projects in
tranche 2 was Ush 14.7 billion and Ush 14.5 billion in tranche 1. The
average cost of all investments in tranche 1 was US$2,773 while in tranche
2 it was US$3,609. The LGDP financed projects created significant
employment at the local level since the projects were generally labor
intensive.  Labor represented 31% of the total project costs in tranche 1
and 24% in tranche 2. The participation of female workers in LGDP projects
was also significant with about 17% of the total person days being
provided by women in tranche 1 and 24% in tranche 2. An analysis of the
investments financed from tranches 1 and 2 by sectors indicates
consistency with the National Program Priority Areas, namely education
(30%), roads (25%), health (10%), sanitation/drainage (10%), water (14%).
The total development grants to LGs in 2001/2002 amounted to US$80.3
million, of which the share of LGDP I was US$17.8 million. For 2002/03,
LGDP I share of the total development grants was US$22.7 million out of
US$82.9 million. Under LGDP II, the share of LGDP grants would increase
as a result of the folding in of other bilateral grants into the program.
2. Objectives
-2-



Improve Local Government institutional performance for sustainable,
decentralized service delivery.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
At the workshop noted above, there was a broadening consensus that the
LGDP I "model" is consistent with Uganda's constitutional provisions for
decentralized governance and its PRSP in general, and with the
Government's decentralization policy in particular. As noted in Section
B.3, a key element of this "model" is the unconditional grants that
promote downward accountability. This is in contrast to the programs of
most other donors that channel funds conditioned to their use for
sector-specific endeavors and/or with limited geographic coverage. The
Bank is broadly viewed, by Government and increasingly by other donors, as
providing a unique and essential value added of providing policy advice
and implementation support for decentralization in a comprehensive manner,
across sectors and throughout the country. There is a growing momentum for
other donors to "buy into" the LGDP "model" supported by the Bank. This
has the potential to consolidate support, within Government and across
donors, for the intergovernmental relations that are evolving under the
Government's decentralization policy. This consolidation of support is the
chief value added by the Bank, to be achieved under the proposed LGDP II,
and potentially under a decentralization PRSC.
4. Description
Support for the Decentralization Process - This component consists of
activities to support the improvement of the LGs to plan and implement
projects which will be funded by the Local Government Development Grant
(Component 2), support of annual workshop through which progress towards
decentralization in Uganda will be assessed, and establishment of an
analytical and design basis for the development of a decentralization
budget support instrument. It would also provide support to the national
assessment system, operationalization of the planning guidelines and
information systems.
Local Development Grants - This component will continue and extend the
financing of local infrastructure investment through supporting a system
of central-local intergovernmental transfers.
Local Government Capacity Building - This component will provide support
to the development of a national LG capacity building strategy,
strengthening of the Human Resource Development (HRD) functions in LGs,
and provision of capacity building grants to LGs.
Local Government Revenue Enhancement - This component will finance
technical assistance at both the policy and operational levels.
Support to Project Implementation - This component will consist of
activities to support project management, monitoring, evaluation and
audits of the accounts of the program and accounts of
all LLGs for the first two years of the program.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $10.20
-3-



IBRD
IDA
DENMARK: DANISH INTL. DEV. ASSISTANCE (DANIDA) $2.40
AUSTRIA, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR FED CHANCELLERY-DG DEV COOP) $0.30
IRELAND, GOV. OF $7.50
NETHERLANDS, GOV. OF THE (EXCEPT FOR MOFA/MIN.OF DEV.COOP.) $15.00
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE $104.00
Total Project Cost $139.40
6. Implementation
The overall project implementation period is 4 years. The institutional
and implementation arrangements for the projects will be as follows:
(i) Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED) is
responsible for ensuring macro-economic stability. Since the National
Planning Authority is not yet operational, the MoFPED is also responsible
for coordinating all development plans at the national level.
District/municipal councils are required to develop three year rolling
development plans incorporating investment plans from lower Local
Governments (LGs) . MoFPED receives the development investment plans from
the districts/municipalities and incorporates them in the overall national
development budget. Disbursements to LGs under components 2 and 3 of the
program shall be made by MoFPED based on the advice of the MoLG on whether
a LG has met the access requirements for receiving both the development
and capacity building grants or only the capacity building grant.
(ii) Ministry of Local Government (MoLG) . MoLG will be the executing
ministry of LGDP II and also the agency responsible for Components 1, 4 &
5. MoLG will manage the project by coordinating the activities across the
various components and evaluating LGs' performance with respect to project
implementation. The primary role of MoLG is inspection, monitoring and
coordination of LGs. In addition, MoLG will be responsible for effecting
and publishing the transfers to ensure transparency and accountability.
MoLG will also, where necessary, offer training and technical advice to
LGs, do compliance verification and mentor those LGs which have qualified
for access to funds under Components 2 & 3 to enhance and improve their
performances. MoLG will monitor and evaluate the performance of LGs to
ensure compliance with national policies, regulations, standards,
procedures and adherence to guidelines. Local Governments which fail to
comply with such performance measures will be subject to sanctions. A
Program Coordination Unit (PCU) (currently the PMU) will support MoLG in
the management and coordination of the various program activities. The
PCU will provide technical back-up support to MoLG and ensure that MoLG
gradually take over responsibility for the non-program specific management
tasks in accordance with the MoLG institutional alignment strategy. This
strategy is important for the sustainability of the Program after
2005/2006.
(iii) Local Governments will be responsible for implementation of
Components 2 & 3 of the project based on their ability to meet the minimum
access criteria.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability issues for LGDP II arise at two levels: (i) sustainability
of the physical infrastructure investments made by local authorities with
-4 -



their receipts from the Local Development Grant, particularly if local
revenues remain stagnant or decline; and (ii) the sustainability of the
LGDP capital and capacity-building transfers as an ongoing element of the
intergovernmental fiscal system in Uganda.
The former issue was clearly identified during the mid-term review of LGDP
I - where it was noted that the local revenue performance of many local
authorities was deteriorating - and has remained a key source of concern
for the Government of Uganda and donors since that time. LGDP II seeks to
address to address this issue in two ways. First, the assessment criteria
(conditions) which local authorities will need to meet in order to access
their LDG allocations will be tightened so as to sharpen incentives to
improve local revenue performance. Second, Component 4 of the proposed
project will support an extensive set of activities at policy, legal and
operational levels to improve the own-source revenue performance of local
authorities across the country.
In respect of the level (ii) issues, it is important that LGDP is retained
as a fundamental feature of the intergovernmental transfer system in
Uganda beyond the life of the project. Prospects for this are very good.
In fact a cardinal feature of the government's Fiscal Decentralization
Strategy (approved by Cabinet in 2002 and currently under implementation)
is that fiscal flows to local authorities for development purposes - from
both donors and from central government - should increasingly be
incorporated into the CDG mechanism. This is given concrete expression
through the joint funding of the CDG by a number of bilateral donors for
the first time, and it is expected that steady progress will continue to
be made in this area.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A key design feature of LGDP I was to incorporate the findings of Uganda's
Participatory Assessment Report which details the perceptions and insights
of the poor with regard to various aspects such as the nature of poverty,
social/economic strategies, services/infrastructure, governance, and
security. The report's findings as to what may be required for better
delivery of services from the perspective of the poor communities were
incorporated in the participatory consultative process with the
beneficiary communities. In addition, a detailed Community Participation
Review exercise was conducted in the early preparatory stage of LGDP I to
analyze and document various demand-driven approaches to investment
planning, decision making and implementation. This analysis provided the
basis for defining the participatory approach to the project drawing on
the best practices that were identified. Most government projects,
however, have tended to be "top-down" with "vertical or parallel"
structures although quite a number of projects in Uganda have been
conceptualized and implemented using the participatory approach, mainly by
NGOs. These projects omitted and/or limited the involvement of the key
stakeholders or target beneficiaries in the decision making and
implementation phase. As a result, such projects have been regarded as
"external", lacking beneficiary support, commitment, and ownership and,
therefore, have not been sustainable. In this context, the lessons
learned from these previous activities include:
(i) Lack of community consultation resulting in adverse public reaction;
(ii) Lack of ownership due to inadequate involvement of the client in the
- 5-



decision making process;
(iii) Unsustainable investments due to inadequate attention to operations
and maintenance; and
(iv) Inadequate capacity of the client to effectively manage investments
contracts.
Successful implementation of LGDP I is dependent on a strong sense of
ownership by the clients, effective community participation and
consultation, identification of the most appropriate, affordable, cost
effective solutions taking into account both capital and maintenance
costs, proper design , selection of qualified contractors, a strong
construction supervision team to oversee those investments which include
civil works construction, and proper provision for operations and
maintenance. Some of these aspects were successfully incorporated in the
LGDP I which included micro investments at the community level in four
pilot municipalities. The Mid-Term Review of LGDP I provided the
following main conclusions:
a) The project development objectives are still relevant and achievable by
the project;
b) Capital investment in local infrastructure by local authorities, funded
by the LGDP, have been generally proceeding successfully;
c) Progress with ensuring the sustainability of local service delivery has
been slow--this is particularly evident in the area of local resource
mobilization;
d) Improvements have been achieved in the capacity and understanding by
local governments of their roles and responsibilities, particularly in the
areas of planning, budgeting and financial management; and
e) There is a need to review the assessment process, specifically in the
areas of content, procedures (possibilities for appeal), and
institutional/structural issues.
Thus, the main lessons learned from the partial implementation of LGDP I
are that its design is basically sound and that its key components
(support for the decentralization process; local development grants; local
government capacity building; and support to project implementation) merit
continued support under the proposed project. However, the MTR also
concluded that the Government's decentralization policy could be
undermined if the performance of local governments in mobilizing their
own-source revenues is not improved substantially, urgently, and in a
sustainable manner. These lessons learned are reflected in the proposed
component for local government revenue enhancement.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The local authorities that meet the minimum
conditions will receive the development grants. Those local authorities
that don't meet the minimum conditions will only receive the capacity
building grants. Infrastructure investments under Component 2 will likely
have some environmental impact. The investments under this component fall
under various sectors such as water supply, drainage, sanitation, solid
waste management, access roads, construction of schools and health
facilities. In addition, the investments are sectorally varied given that
the they are determined by local-level priorities which will differ from
one local government to another. Due to the diverse nature of the
investments, the scope of environmental analysis for each investment would
- 6 -



also vary.
An environmental assessment and a resettlement policy framework will be
prepared.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Lance Morrell
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-0448
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-7 -



