GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA   ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
E722
GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(LGDP 11)
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK (ESMF) REPORT
ALSO TO BE REFERRED TO AS THE
(STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENT ASSESSMENT
REPORT)
(Final)
James Orehmie Monday



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
List of Acronyms                                                   3
1.0   Executive Summary                                           4
2 0   Introduction                                                 8
3.0   Description of the Proposed Project                          11
4.0   Description of the area of influence                         13
5.0    Description of the policy, legal, regulatory, and administrative frameworks 14
6 0   Description of the World Bank's Safeguards Policies          24
7.0   Proposed institutional framework for environmental and       27
Social management
8.0   Proposed screening mechanism and checklist of risks and      32
Mitigation measures
9 0   Proposed capacity building measures and costs estimates      36
10.0  Monitoring indicators and plan, including costs              38
Annex 1 0   Sample Screening Form                                  43
Annex 2 0   Procedures for Sub project Investments Requiring ESIA  48
Annex 3.0   List of individuals/institutions contacted             49
Annex4 0    References                                             50
2



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                           ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
List of Acronyms
EA- Environment Assessment
EMP - Environment Management Plan
ESA- Environment and Social Assessment
ESIA- Environment and Social Impact Assessment (for subprojects)
ESMF - Environment and Social Management Framework
GoU - Government of Uganda
NEMA- National Environment Authority
PDC - Parish Development Committee
PMC - Project Management Committee
SEA- Strategic Environment Assessment
TPC- Technical Planning Committee
3



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
1.0. Executive Summary
Uganda is a country endowed with rich and enviable bio-diversity. A landlocked country
of approximately 24m people, Uganda has a substantial and wide variety of natural
resources, including fertile soils, regular rainfall, significantly many rivers (e.g. Victoria
Nile and Albert Nile) and lakes (e.g. Lake Victoria, Lake Albert, Lake Kyoga) , diverse
flora and fauna, and sizable mineral deposits( copper, cobalt, gold ) all on about 236,
040 km2 in total area Significantly, 15% of this area is water Since the late 1980's,
Uganda has rebounded from the abyss of civil war, economic malaise and a scorching
aids crisis, to become a model of relative peace, stability, successful HIV infection
control and even considerable and remarkable prosperity. This inheritance poses major
socio-economic and environmental challenges for the people and Government of
Uganda (GOU) in their on-going development efforts, as they seek to manage these
resources and successes using sustainable approaches and methods. Pursuant to this
goal of sustainable development, the GOU is unquestionably committed to a strategy
that would stimulate significant economic growth, enable employment creation and
achieve considerable poverty reduction, in partnership with the private sector, through
the decentralization of the planning, delivery and management of basic public services,
inter alia.
The GOU's commitment to decentralization is entrenched in various legislative
documents, most significantly, the Constitution 1995, and the Local Government Act
1997 and in Uganda's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). Among noteworthy
achievements to this commitment is the realization of the complete successful
decentralization of the recurrent budget and the near completion of the same with the
development budget. In 1999 the government assisted by the World Bank undertook the
Local Government Development Program (I) in furtherance of the decentralization of the
development budget based on the following key principles. Based on the Mid Term
Review (MTR) of the LGDP I conducted in February 2002, the GOU officially requested
that the Bank  begin the preparation of the LGDP II in order to consolidate the
achievements under the LGDP I.
The overall development objective of the proposed LGDP II is to improve Local
Government institution performance for sustainable, decentralized service delivery and
is structured to achieve its objectives within five major investments components of the
project. Specifically, under component 2, communities will request financing for their
sub-projects through grant funds made to their Local Governments. It is envisaged that
some of these sub-projects will involve the construction of water supply and sanitation
facilities, storm drainage facilities (e.g. culverts, earth drains), school buildings, health
centers, road infrastructure networks, solid waste management, agricultural extension
activities ( fish ponds, cattle crashes etc ), agric- business small industries, extension of
rural electricity networks to communities, etc.
The GOU by the National Environment Statute 1995  and the World Banks on
Operational and Procedural Policies, specifically OP 4 01 requires the government to
prepare a Environment and Social Management Framework, ESMF, (also referred to as
a Strategic Environment Assessment Report by NEMA) report which will establish a
mechanism to determine and assess future potential environmental and social impacts
of Local Government subproject investments under the proposed LGDP II, and then to
set out mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during design,
4



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
implementation and operation of the subprojects to eliminate adverse environmental and
social impacts, offset them , or reduce them to acceptable levels. This is precisely what
is required at this stage of project preparation since the subprojects have not yet been
identified OP 4.01 further requires that the ESMF report must be disclosed as a
separate and stand alone by the Government of Uganda and the World Bank as a
condition for Bank Appraisal of the LGDP II. The disclosure should be both in Uganda
where it can be accessed by the general public and local communities and at the
Infoshop of the World Bank and the date for disclosure must precede the date for
appraisal of the project.
The key highlights in this ESMF report is presented as follows:
(i)   The ESMF establishes the screening process mechanism for the sub-projects
to enable the local governments and local communities to simultaneously
identify potential environmental and social impacts of sub-projects and to
address them by incorporating the relevant mitigation measures into the
designs of the sub-projects before they submit them for review and
subsequent approval.
The main feature of this mechanism requires the subproject implementers to
screen their sub projects at the preparation stage using the screening form in
Annex 1 and the revised LGDP I environmental and social checklist to identify
potential adverse effects/impacts.
The next requirement is for the implementers to incorporate the necessary
mitigation measures into the sub project design following which they are to
submit the sub project proposals accompanied by the completed screening
form and checklist to the reviewing committee, the TPC.
The use of the checklist would also identify which sub projects would require
individual ESIA's These would be for sub projects costing more than
US$100,000 and/or sub projects involving new roads, incorporating use of
hazardous chemicals and managing solid, liquid or medical wastes. The use
of the results of the ESIA would be how these sub projects identify their
adverse effects which would then be adequately mitigated in the sub project
designs before submission for review and approval.
The   sub   project  proposals  would  describe  any  investment
designs/plans/measures incorporated into the proposal. The respective TPC
would review the proposals for compliance with this EA process. The next
process would be for the TPC to recommend approval to the respective local
government council of the sub project proposal subject to the environmental
and social conditions the implementer must adhere to in the detailed
planning, construction and operation of the investment. The TPC may reject
sub project proposals based on non-compliance with the screening process
and the implementer in that case would have to re-screen and re-design their
sub project and re-submit it for a second review to the TPC.
5



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
Only sub project proposals that comply with the requirements of the
Environment Act 1995 and the World Bank Safeguards policies will be
recommended for approval to the respective local government council.
(ii)  The ESMF assesses the capacity at the District and Lower Local
Governments to implement the proposed screening process and mitigation
measures, including the provision of support to communities in cases of
community-managed sub-projects, and makes recommendations as
appropriate, including training needs and cost. The ESMF also proposes
institutional arrangements for the environmental and social management of
future sub-projects, including monitoring indicators and a cost ed monitoring
plan. The ESMF found that the decentralization process in Uganda was far
and wide reaching and that significant success had been registered on the
ground in that all local government structures were in place at all levels in the
system and that the process of planning had also been decentralized to the
extent that communities were now participating and initiating their sub-
projects in a demand driven nature. This was very welcome. The ESMF
found that to the extent weaknesses in the local government layers existed, it
was of the ability to implement the required sub-project ESIA process
described in (i) above and in the monitoring of the mitigation measures,
therefore, it is proposed that this could be addressed by cementing the links
between the layers and not in adding additional layers/institutions. The ESMF
recommends that the top-down linkages be strengthened by focusing on
knowledge transfer in the top-down direction by building capacity at all levels
through the provision of training for new environmental resource persons to
serve among reviewers and implementers and through technical assistance
in these committees. In the crucial bottom-up direction, the linkages are
designed to strengthen the implementation of the monitoring measures
required in the sub-projects. This to be achieved by placing greater burden
and responsibilities for monitoring on the implementers , after they have
received the required training and capacity building measures just outlined, to
now be required to submit regular periodic reports on the state of
operationality of the sub-projects they are managing to the TPC's higher up
the system. Given that the number of sub-projects is likely to be in the
thousands, this is considered to be the most effective way of providing
information needed at higher levels to making monitoring and evaluation
decisions. Finally, the role of the National Environmental Authority in the
context of this project has been clarified to be one of providing technical
assistance and facilitator for the training program
(iii)  Finally, the ESMF assessed the content, use and effectiveness of existing
Environment and Social Checklist prepared under LGDP I. It discovered that
the checklist remains the most effective way of screening sub-projects,
however, it discovered that this checklist was very rarely used. The reasons
for this were that it appeared complicated and that capacity was lacking at the
local levels to use this checklist. The ESMF recommends that the checklist be
significantly overhauled to make it simpler and easier to use at all levels of
the local government system, but especially for use at the TPC and PMC
levels. The ESMF provides additional screening aid, the screening form in
Annex 1, which will be used in conjunction with the revised LGDP 1
6



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                          ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
environmental and social checklist. The revise checklist would be updated to
reflect requirements of OP 4.01.
This Environment and Social Management Framework Report presents definitive,
conclusive and clear procedures consistent with the Laws in Uganda and the World
Bank Safeguard Policies
7



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                        ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
2.0 INTRODUCTION
The Government of Uganda has asked the World Bank for support for the second Local
Government Development Programme (LGDP II). It is planned that basic service
delivery investments will be financed through Local Development Grants from Central
Government to Local Governments. This would take the form of Local Governments and
communities accessing these funds to finance subprojects for which they are mandated
as provided for under the Second Schedule of the Local Governments Act 1997. It is
envisaged that some of these sub-projects will involve the construction of water supply
and sanitation facilities, storm drainage facilities (e g. culverts, earth drains), primary
education facilities, primary health care facilities, road infrastructure (mostly feeder
roads) networks, solid waste management ( dump sites), agricultural extension activities
( fish ponds, cattle crashes etc ), extension of rural electricity networks to communities,
etc.
However, the sub projects at the time of preparation of the project had not yet been
identified, therefore the laws of Uganda and Operational Policy 4.01 of the Bank requires
the GoU to prepare an Environment and Social Management Framework ( referred to by
NEMA as a Strategic Environment Assessment, SEA ) which establishes a mechanism
to determine and assess future potential environmental and social impacts of Local
Government subproject investments under the proposed LGDP II, and then to set out
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during implementation and
operation of the subprojects to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts,
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. The GoU is further required to
disclose this document in-country as a separate and stand alone document so that it is
accessible by the general public, local communities, project-affected groups, local
NGO's and all other stakeholders and also at the Infoshop of the World Bank and the
date for disclosure must precede the date for appraisal of the project.
Since the subprojects mentioned above which are to be created on a demand driven
basis have not yet been identified, each subproject that is subsequently identified and
promoted by the Local Government or local community would be subjected to
environmental and social planning and, if required, its own Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment (ESIA) prior to approval. This environmental and social planning and
subproject ESIA would be the instruments through which the subprojects environmental
and social impacts are identified and assessed and would also evaluate alternatives and
would design appropriate mitigation, management and monitoring measures.
Scope of Work
The scope of work is to .
(a)   Prepare and Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
(b)   Prepare a Resettlement Policy Framework
The ESMF is to present a framework for screening, monitoring and mitigating potential
impacts, with a process for triggering subsequent sub project environment and social
assessments, where necessary.
8



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
The RPF is required to be separate document, prepared following the appropriate laws
in Uganda and the World Bank Operational Policy 4.12, and is also required to be
disclosed before appraisal of this project The RPF establishes the resettlement and
compensation principles, organizational arrangements and design criteria to be applied
to meet the needs of the people who may be affected by the project activities requiring
land acquisition and /or denial, restriction or loss of access to economic resources.
Study Approach and Methodology
The  study was conducted by the consultant using the following approach and
methodology;
*  Review of the LGDP II literature including the Project Concept Document (PCD),
the evolving draft Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the approved Integrated
Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS), Mission Aide Memoir's, Project Implementation
Plan for LGDP (I), Participatory Guide to Local Councils, Environment Mitigation
Plan for LGDP (I) (which contains the referred to checklist), The Constitution of
the Republic of Uganda 1995, The Local Governments Act 1997, The National
Environment Statute 1995, The Land Act 1998, World Bank Safeguards Policies
and other relevant documents.
* A ten day study tour in Uganda during which discussions were held with the
Management of the Project Coordinating Unit and Officials of the National
Environment Authority (NEMA) at the national level in Kampala, and field visits to
Masaka Municipal Council, Mubende District, Mbale Municipal County Council
and Wakiso District where discussions were held with management of these local
governments followed by site visits to subprojects completed during the LGDP I,
where discussions were also held with management and staff of these facilities
and with members of local communities Using the specific circumstances of
each local government visited, their capacity to implement the proposed
screening process using the environment checklist and mitigation measures was
assessed, including their capacity to provide support to their communities in
cases of community managed sub-projects (e g where PMC's were in charge)
and solicited and discussed appropriate recommendations for improvement in
service delivery, mitigation, monitoring, institutional requirements and their
training and capacity building needs. The local governments and communities
remained extremely supportive of the LGDP I and the planned LGDP II project
and their level of support was evident in their enthusiasm to participate and their
lively contribution in the discussions and field visits, and also in their verbal
statements that the LGDP I had brought meaningful development to their
communities and that they were looking forward to the LGDP II and wished to
commend and thank their Government and the World Bank for their continued
support.  In this spirit of community support and   ownership, the
recommendations reached in this report were jointly agreed to as reflecting the
needs of the communities and were thus seen as sustainable It was not
uncommon to hear " if it was not for the LGDP I, this school, or this health unit,
this road would not have been built in my community".
9



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
*  During the discussions with the local governments and their local communities,
the use, scope and efficacy of existing environmental checklist was discussed
and mutually agreed conclusions were drawn.
* The discussions and field visits took the form of the consultant and a member of
the PCU arriving at a pre-arranged meeting at the administrative offices of the
local government visited, where the senior management of the LG was present.
Following introductory remarks by the member of the PCU accompanying the
consultant, the administrative head of the LG would make his remarks and then
the consultant was invited to make his presentation. The presentation of the
Consultant can be generally characterized as stating the purpose of his mission,
followed by explaining in some detail the requirements of the EA and RPF and
the key features of the corresponding World Bank Operational Policies , a call
for the LG to share their experiences in LGDP I on any environmental and social
issues in light of the requirements of the EA/RPF, and then the consultant would
finalize his remarks by looking at the sector grouped list of facilities completed
under LGDP 1 and then make a request to visit typical sites on the list. This was
followed by an open Q&A session and then the field visit to the sites. On
completion of the field visits, the group returned to the administrative offices of
the LGs, where a summary meeting was held to discuss environmental and
social concerns based on observations of/ from the field/site visits, shared
experiences during the Phase 1 project and recommendations and requirements
for compliance with the EA/RPF requirements for the LGDP 11 project
*  The consultations of the consultant with members of the local communities and
management staff of facilities/subprojects implemented under LGDP 11 were held
during site/field visits in the presence of the member accompanying the
consultant from the PCU and the representatives of the LG's of that area The
consultant would start by briefly stating the purpose of his visit and quickly tour
the facility and ask questions of the management staff. Members of the local
communities who were present ( the management staff are a good
representation of the local communities as they are often from "down the road" in
the local community) would explain their constraints and problems with
implementing the mitigation  measures and would often make their own
recommendations on how to effectively mitigate environment and social impacts
due to the subprojects they were now managing.
* These discussions and consultations with the local governments and the
communities proved invaluable in designing and coming up with appropriate
solutions and recommendations that the communities could claim ownership of
and thus ensure the sustainability of the project as a whole. The discussions and
consultations were the backbone of the work done by the consultant.
* Report writing.
10



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
3.0 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
The overall development objective of the proposed LGDP II is to improve Local
Government institution performance for sustainable, decentralized service delivery and
is structured to achieve its objectives within five major investments components of the
project, which are;
The overall development objective of the proposed LGDP II is to improve Local
Government institution performance for sustainable, decentralized service delivery and
is structured to achieve its objectives within five major investments components of the
project, which are;
a)    Component 1: Support for the Decentralization Process, will consist
of activities to support the improvement of the Local Governments (LG's)
to plan and implement projects which will be funded by the Local
Government Development Grant (Component 2), support of annual
workshop through which progress towards decentralization in Uganda will
be assessed, and establishment of an analytical and design basis for the
development of a decentralization budget support instrument. It would
also  provide  support to  the  national  assessment  system,
operationalization of the planning guidelines and information systems.
b) Component 2: Local Development Grants This component comprises
a non-sectoral conditional grant (termed the Local Development Grant,
LDG), distributed on a formula basis between all local authorities in
Uganda for investment in local infrastructure in accordance with local
needs as these are determined through local planning and budget
processes. Although all local authorities will be eligible to receive LDG
funding, actual access to the grant will be determined by capacity,
accountability, and performance conditionality which are designed to
provide incentives for improvements in sustainable service delivery at the
local level. All tiers of local governments are eligible for accessing these
resources , however, access to these funds will be limited to only those
LGs which have met a set of minimum institutional, financial and
operational requirements. The level of funding transferred to the LG's will
increase gradually during the life of the program along with a gradual
swapping of sector grants and bilateral district support programs into
LGDP modality
Local Governments and communities will access the LDG for financing of
sub projects for which they are mandated as provided for under the
Second Schedule of the Local Government Act 1997. Experiences from
the LGDP I have however shown that most of the services invested in, by
LG's are in the sector of primary health care, primary education, water
and sanitation, feeder roads and agriculture extension. The typical size of
most of these investments can be categorized in three ranges (i) up to
$25,000 (ii) $25,000 to $50,000 and (iii) $50,000 to $75,000.
c)    Component 3: Capacity Building. This component will enhance the
capacity of LG's to fulfill their mandates and to develop and test a system
1 1



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
for sustained capacity building and training of LGs to meet the capacity
building needs of individuals as well as organizations. An assessment of
the capacity building and training activities within LGDP 1, has revealed a
need for increased quality as well as a need for a more coordinated effort.
Thus, though much capacity building takes place at LG level (funded by a
number of sources and agencies), it is to a large extent uncoordinated,
often overlapping and with different (sometimes conflicting) approaches,
content and methodologies. There is a need for establishing a national
framework and system, which can provide the point of departure for a
high quality national system, where the LGs themselves are empowered
to define needs, procure and carryout training. This component is
structured into three sub-components ;(i) Strategic Framework. National
Strategy and Institutional Set-up sub-component will assist MoLG to
coordinate capacity building for decentralization by formulating and
implementing a National LG Capacity Building Strategy with the
participation of relevant stakeholders. The strategy should provide a
framework for coordination of capacity building activities for a more
demand driven process, whereby LGs themselves define their training
needs, (ii) Strengthen LG Human Resource Development Function sub-
component is designed to strengthen the Human Resource Development
Function of the district and municipal councils to plan for their own
capacity development and training needs and thereby support a demand
driven approach to LG training. The LGDP 11 will provide resources for the
development and piloting of a HRD course and introduction courses on
the new manuals to build up ' district resource pools' (trainers in LG)
d)    Component 4: Local Government Revenue Enhancement a review of
the development of the local government revenues has confirmed the
findings from the MTR that this is an area of serious concern for all local
governments. The specific activities to be funded under this component
will finalized when the consultants complete their assignments.
e)    Support to Project Implementation , this component will contain
support to project management, monitoring and evaluation as well as
some key central support activities such as the national assessment
system, operating of planning guidelines, LG MIS and review and control
of transfers system under LGDPII.
12



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP ii)
4.0 DESCRIPTION OF THE AREA OF INFLUENCE
The proposed LGDP II will operate throughout Uganda.
Uganda is a landlocked but well-watered country of 24m people in Eastern Africa
endowed with rich and enviable bio-diversity. Located approx. 1 00 N and 32 00 E,
Uganda's neighbors are: to the north by Sudan (435 km of land border), the east by
Kenya (933 km), the south by Tanzania (396 km) and Rwanda (169 km) and to the west
by the Democratic Republic of Congo (765 km). Uganda has a substantial and wide
variety of natural resources, including fertile soils, regular rainfall, significantly many
rivers and lakes, diverse flora and fauna and sizeable mineral deposits all on about 236,
040 sq. km Significantly, 15% of this area is water
The climate is tropical, generally with two wet seasons ( March to May) and September
to November) but semi - arid in the Northeast. The terrain is a plateau in some areas but
in other areas, fairly perched on gentle slopes with surrounding mountain rims The
elevation extremes range from Lake Albert 621m is the lowest to Margherita Peak on
Mount Stanley at 5,100m is the highest
The significant water ways in Uganda include the rivers Victoria Nile and Albert Nile
Lakes Victoria, Edward, George, Albert, Kyoga, Kwania, Salisbury, Nakuwa and
Nakivali.
The main natural resources are copper, cobalt, gold, hydropower, limestone and fertile
land.
Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, employing over 80% of the work
force. Coffee is the major export crop and accounts for the bulk of export revenues The
EU is Uganda's largest trading partner. Other crops produced include tea, cotton,
tobacco, cassava, potatoes, corn, millet, pulses; beef, goat meat, milk, poultry, corn
flowers, bananas, pineapple and mangos. Sizeable industries in sugar, brewing,
tobacco, cotton textiles and cement account for about 5% of the workforce and the
services and trade sectors account for about 13%.
Uganda is a net producer of electricity with peak production of 1.6 billion kwh and peak
consumption of 1.3 billion kwh while exporting 174 kwh. There are in total about
17,000km of roads and only 15% of this is paved.
Uganda is a member of many regional, continental and international organizations and is
a signatory to many international agreements on the environment that address Blo-
diversity, Climate change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection
and Wetlands.
Current environment issues and cause for concern are draining of wetlands for
agricultural use, deforestation, overgrazing, soil erosion, water hyacinth infestation in
Lake Victoria and, widespread and uncontrolled poaching
In the Northern region of the country, the LRA, a rebel force is operating in parts of Gulu,
Kitgum, Pader and Nebbi Districts but concentrated around the Victoria Nile Delta.
13



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
5.0 DESCRIPTION OF THE POLICY, LEGAL, REGULATORY, AND
ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORKS
The Local Government Development Program II ( LGDP II) has been assigned a
Category B project, using the guidelines of the World Bank OP 4 01 on Environmental
Assessment. This means that overall, the project is likely to have potential adverse
environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas -
including wetlands, forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats, and that these
impacts are likely to be less adverse than Category A projects. These impact are likely
to be site specific and reversible through the application of appropriate mitigatory and
monitoring measures.
Uganda has good environmentally regulatory framework enshrined in its Constitution of
1995 and in the National Environment Statute 1995 and other local laws and bye-laws.
The 1995 Constitution empowers parliament to make laws that provide measures
intended to protect and preserve the environment from abuse, pollution and degradation,
to manage the environment for sustainable development and to promote environmental
awareness.
Uganda is also a signatory to and has ratified all major international conventions.
The National Environment Authority (NEMA) was established by the National
Environment Statute 1995 as the principal agency in Uganda responsible for the
management of the environment and to coordinate, monitor and supervise all activities in
the field of the environment.
The Local Government Act 1997 gives full effect to the decentralization of functions,
powers, responsibilities and services to local governments. The Local Government
system in Uganda is based on this policy of decentralization which has achieved
significant implementation success on the ground, with most if not all local governments
having been established and are functional. The LGDP II as a follow on project to LGDP
I is designed to support this process of decentralization by strengthening the system
thereby enabling it to carry out its functions of service delivery, etc.
The National Environment Statute 1995
This statute provides for the sustainable management of the environment and
establishes NEMA setting out its modus operandi and roles and responsibilities . The
statute further sets the  regulatory requirements for Environmental Planning,
Establishment of Environmental Standards, Environment Management, Control of
Pollution, Environmental Restoration Orders and Environmental Easements, Record-
Keeping, Inspection and Analysis, Financial Provisions, Offences, Judicial Proceedings
and International Obligations.
This statute establishes The Policy Committee on the Environment with the following
functions;
i)   to provide policy guidelines, formulate and coordinate environmental policies
for NEMA.
ii)   Liaise with the cabinet on issues affecting the environment.
14



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
ill)  Identify obstacles to the  implementation  environmental policy  and
programmes and ensure implementation of those policies and programmes.
iv)   To perform any other function that may be assigned to it by the Government.
The National Environment Authority (NEMA)
The functions of NEMA as mandated by the National Environment Statute 1995 are;
i)    to co-ordinate the implementation of government policy and the decision of
the Policy Committee.
ii)   To ensure the integration of environmental concerns in overall national
planning through co-ordination with national ministries, departments and
agencies of government ( including Local Governments).
iii)  To liaise with the private sector, inter-governmental organizations, non-
governmental agencies, governmental agencies of other states on issues
relating to the environment.
iv)   To propose environmental policies and strategies to the Policy Committee.
v)    To initiate legislative proposals, standards and guidelines on the environment
in accordance with statute.
vI)   To   review  and  approve  environmental impact assessments  and
environmental impact statements submitted in accordance with statute.
vii)  To promote public awareness through formal, non formal and informal
education about environmental issues;
viii)  To undertake such studies and submit such reports and recommendations
with respect to the environment as the Government or the Policy Committee
may consider necessary
ix)   To ensure observance of proper safeguards in the planning and execution of
all development projects, including those already in existence that have or
are likely to have significant impact on the environment determined in
accordance with statute;
x)    To undertake research , and disseminate information about the environment.
xi)   To prepare and disseminate a state of the environment report once in every
two years.
xii)  To mobilize, expedite and monitor resources for environmental management.
xiii)  To perform such other functions as the Government may assign to NEMA or
as are incidental or conducive to the exercise by NEMA of any or all of the
functions provided for under Statute.
15



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
The Local Government Act 1997
The local Government Act provides for the system of local governments.
Administratively, Uganda is divided into five levels of Local Governments whereby each
level has statutory functions with respect to participatory development planning.
The five levels are as follows
Local Government Unit                Level
District Councils and               5
Kampala City Council
County Councils and                 4
Municipal Councils
Sub County Councils                 3
Town Councils
Municipal Divisions
City Divisions
Parish Councils                     2
Village Councils                     1
There are 56 districts and each district sub divided into counties, which in turn are
divided into sub-counties/towns followed by parishes and villages. There are 13
Municipal Councils which are sub divided into Municipal Divisions followed by parishes
and villages. There is one city council which is Kampala City Council which is sub-
divided into 4 city divisions
The District Councils, City Councils, Municipal Councils, sub-county Councils, Municipal
Division Councils and Town Councils are Local Governments The County Councils,
Parish Councils and Village Councils are administrative units.
Local Governments are corporate bodies and are charged with the responsibility of
providing services, which are stipulated in Part II of the Second Schedule of the Local
Governments Act 1997 with the following powers, functions and responsibilities devolved
to them;
a)    The powers to prepare, approve and implement their own development plans
based on locally determined priorities.
b)    The powers to prepare, approve and implement their own budgets.
c)    The powers to raise and utilize their own resources according to their own
priorities after making legally mandated transfers.
d)    The powers to make ordinances and by laws as long as they do not
contradict the Constitution and other national laws.
e)    The powers to hire, manage and fire their own staff
f)    The powers to manage their own payrolls and separate personnel system.
16



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                                  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
Local Governments are by law required to formulate three year rolling development
plans The plans should incorporate priorities and plans for lower councils. Also, this
statute mandates Village and Parish executive committees to initiate, encourage,
support and participate in self help projects and to monitor local governments.
The Guide to Participatory Planning and Management
A Guide to Participatory Planning and Management for local governments exist to
provide agencies working in communities with a framework and guidelines that will form
the basis for participatory bottom up planning. The guide will also serve as a tool to
facilitate local government Councils review their performance against previous plans.
This guide focuses very much on Participatory Approaches to planning, is consistent
with the provisions of the Constitution, the Local Government Act 1997, the
Decentralization Policy and the LGDP I followed very closely the provisions in this guide.
This guide is now the "bible" as to how the management of planning occurs in local
governments, the relationship in this process between the Ministry of Local Government
and the Local Governments and is fully operational on the ground.
Division of Responsibilities for Different Categories of Investment sub-project,
Community Projects    Sub-county/Division/Town     District Projects
Council Projects
Identification   Beneficiaries,        *   Parish(via Investment    *  By the Parish,
Community Level          Committee) or                passed to Sub-
*   Sub-County/Division/Town    county/Division/To
Council                      wn Council, or by
Sub-
county/Division/To
wn Council then
passed to District,
or
* B the district
Initial Prioritization  Parish Development  Investment Committee,   District Council
Committee, endorsed   endorsed by Local Government
by Parish Council     Council
Design/Costing   Investment Committee  Investment Committee         District Technical Dept
(or service provider,
where service cannot
be provided by the
Dept
Appraisal/Screenin  Technical Planning  Technical Planning Committee  District Technical
9                Committee             with comments from District  Planning Committee
Technical Committee/Planner  with District Planner
Allocation/Approva  Local Council      Local Government Council     District Council
Tendering        N/a                   Depends of threshold         Depends on threshold
Construction     Local hire of labor/use  Through tendering         Through tendering
of local government
staff
Supervision      Mainly Sub-           Supervisor of Works or private  Supervisor of Works, or
county/Division/Town  supervisor - for smaller works  service provider
Drawn for the Harmonized Participatory Planning Guide (HPPG).
17



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                                  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
Council Technical     also Sub-county Technical
Planning Committee-   Committee
also District Tech Dept
or service provider
Monitoring       Project Management    Project Management Committee  Project Management
Committee, Local      or sub-county investment    Committee, or sub-
councils, Parish Chief  committee                  county or District,
depending on source of
proposal, LC's
Ownership        Project Management    Various possibilities. a) Parish or  Various possibilities a)
Committee             Sub-County/Division/Town     Parish or Sub-
Council, b) CBO, c) Local    County/DivisionfTown
Council                      Council, b) CBO, c)
Local Council, d)
District
Operation and    User group            Owners responsibility, but Sub-  Owners responsibility
Maintenance      arrangements, Project  county/Division/Town Council if  plus Distnct recurrent
Management           recurrent costs at that level,  costs, Project
Committees            Project Management Committee  Management
Committees
The main existing technical committees with responsibilities identified in this EA are as
shown in these tables;
At Village Level
Institution        Composition                         Roles and Responsibilities
Village Council    .   As provided for in the Local    *   Attend village planning
Governments Act 1997                meetings
.   Identify and submit to the
Parish Chief and Parish
*  Council issues of concern in
the village
.   Resolve problems identified at
the Village Level
.   Plan the mobilization of locally
available materials and labor
towards the village projects
.   Monitor the delivery of services
with the village
*   Plan and budget for the
maintenance of village
investments (e g water
sources)
Village Executive  *   As provided for in the Local    *   Collect, analyze and keep
Governments Act 1997                village
information/data(maintain
village data bank)
.   Mobilize village members for
planning meetings
.   Initiate, encourage, support
and participate in self-help
projects
*   Submit village proposals to the
Parish Council for
18



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                             ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
consideration
.  Oversee implementation of
village Council decisions
.  Monitor projects and other
activities undertaken by the
Government, Local
Governments and NGO's in
the area
.  Report to the Village Council
Parish/Sub-county/District on
the development
activities/concerns of the
village
Project          *   Parish and Village Executive  .  Providing project site security
Management           Members                      a  Mobilizing community
Committee (PMC)  *   Community representatives from  contribution for project
Project Catchment Area           implementation
.  Representatives of            .  Organizing meetings for
disadvantaged groups (women,     project implementation
youths, IDP's etc )          .   Organizing community
.  One third of members must be     operation, management and
women                            maintenance
At Parish Level
Structure          Composition                 Roles and Responsibilities
Parish Council     *  As provided for in the Local .  Discuss and approve Parish Plans
Governments Act 1997        (plans to be implemented by the
parish using the parish resources)
.  Discuss and decide on Parish
priorities to be submitted to the
Sub-county
Parish   Executive .  As provided for in the Local .  Initiate, encourage, support and
Committee             Governments Act 1997        participate in self-help projects
.  Mobilize people, materials and
technical assistance for Parish
self-help projects
*  Oversee implementation of Parish
Council decisions
a  Monitor  projects  and  other
activities  undertaken  by  the
Government, Local Governments
and NGO's in the area
.  Report to the Village Council
Parish/sub-county on development
activities/concerns of the village,
.  Monitor and supervise the activities
of the PDC
Parish Development  .  Parish Chairperson      *  Regularly update and compile
Committee (PDC)    .  Parish Chief                parish information/data(maintain
.  Two members from every      parish databank)
yillage  council(one  male .  Identify parish development
and one female)             potentials/opportunities,
19



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                             ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
.  Four members from    the    development challenges, priorities
Parish Council, at least one  .  Assemble all village priorities
must be a woman             based on the parish mandate
*  Up to four representatives .  Identify parish wide priorities based
of NGO's/CBO's operating    on the parish mandate
within the Parish where  .  Formulate Parish vision and
they exist                  development strategies
.  One representative of the  .  Integrate village proposals into
Private sector operating in  parish proposals
the Parish               a  Formulate/review draft parish
action plans and annual work plan
. Appraise parish proposals with
technical support of the Sub-
county Technical Planning
Committee
. Identify and recommend to Parish
Council, priorities to be
implemented using parish
resources
* Identify and recommend to Parish
Council priorities to be forwarded
to Sub-county Council for sub-
county funding
. Facilitate village level
consultations
At the Local Government Level (Sub-county/Divisions and Town Councils)
Structure           Composition                Roles and Responsibilities
Sub-                *  As provided for in the  .  The Supreme Planning Authority in
County/Division/Town   Local Governments Act      the     sub-county/Division/Town
Council                1997                        Council
.  Discuss and approve three year
rolling Development Plan
*  Discuss  and  approve   annual
estimates  of   revenue   and
expenditure
.  Ensure integration an incorporation
of lower local council plans into the
sub-county/Division/Town council
plan
*  Approve sub-county/Division/Town
priorities to be submitted to the
District/City  Council    for
consideration by the District/City
Council
Executive Committee  .  As provided for in the  .  Initiate and formulate policy for
Local Governments Act      approval of Council
1997                    .  Oversee the implementation of
Council policy
.  Monitor the  implementation  of
Council programmes
.  Consider  and    evaluate  the
20



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                              ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
performance of the council against
the approved work plans and
programmes at the end of every
financial year
.  Serve as a communication channel
between the Government, District
Council and people in the area
.  Monitor and supervise projects and
other activities  undertaken  by
Government,    District,  Local
Governments and NGO's in the
area
Technical  Planning  .  Sub-county/Town Clerk as  *  Co-ordinate and integrate all
Committee (TPC)        Chairperson                 Sectoral plans
.  All Heads of Department or .  Co-ordinate and integrate plans for
sectors within the area of  lower local councils into the SDP
jurisdiction of the Local .  Appraise individual investment
Government                  projects before presentation to the
council
*  Appraise Parish Project
.  Submit the integrated plan to the
Council through the Executive
committee for consideration
.  Facilitate Parish level planning
meetings
.  Give technical support to PDC's on
planning and budget issues
Investment          *  Sub-county council       .  Preparing           preliminary
Committee              representatives             costing/design  of   prioritized
.  Community                   projects
Representatives         .   Prioritizing  investments  within
.  Personnel from relevant     limits of the IPF's
technical departments in  *  Providing project monitoring
the District and the Sub-  *  Monitoring/verifying    the
county/Division/Town        certification of contractor's (local
Council                     hire) works for payment
*  Retired Civil servants
.  Representatives of
disadvantage groups, ie
women, youth, people with
disabilities (PWDs) etc
N.B. TPC's and the PMC's exist for each project at each level
21



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
Land Tenure and Ownership
The Uganda Constitution of 1995
Land tenure in Uganda is governed by statute such as the 1995 Constitution, the Land
Act 1998 and the Land Acquisition Act 1965 Article 237 (1) of the constitution vests all
land in Uganda in the citizens of Uganda However, under Article 237 (1) a , the
government or local government may acquire land in the public interest. Such acquisition
is subject to the provisions of Article 26 of the same constitution, which gives every
person in Uganda a right to own property The constitution also prescribes that land in
Uganda shall be owned in accordance with following land tenure systems;
* Customary
* Freehold,
* Mailo
*  Leasehold.
It provides procedures to follow during the acquisition of land for public interest and
provides for prompt payment of fair and adequate compensation prior to taking
possession of land. The constitution is however silent on resettlement and
compensation.
Key features of the recognized forms of land tenure are;
Customary Tenure
*  Is governed by rules generally accepted as binding and authoritative by
the class of persons to which it applies. That is customary tenure is not
governed by written law.
*  Land is owned in perpetuity
*  Customary occupants are occupants of former public land and occupy the
land by virtue of their customary rights; they have propriety interest in the
land and are entitled to certificates of customary ownership.
*  Certificates of customary ownership may be obtained, through application
to the Parish Land Committee and eventual issuance by the District Land
Board.
Freehold Tenure
* Derives its legality from the constitution and its incidents from the
written law.
* Involves the holding of land in perpetuity or a term fixed by a condition
* Enables the holder to exercise, subject to the law, full powers of
ownership
Mailo Tenure
*     Has roots in the allotment of land pursuant to the 1990 Uganda
Agreement
*     Derives its legality from the constitution and its incidents from
written law
22



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
*     Involves the holding of land in perpetuity
*     Permits the separation of ownership of land from the ownership of
developments on land made by a lawful or bona fide occupant
*     Enables the holder to exercise all powers of ownership, subject to
the rights of those persons occupying the land at the time of the
creation of the mailo title and their successors.
Leasehold Tenure
* Is created either by contract or by operation of the law.
* Is a form under which the landlord of lessor grants the tenant or lessee exclusive
possession of the land, usually for a period defined and in return for a rent
* The tenant has security of tenure and a proprietary interest in the land.
The Land Act (1998)
The 1998 Land Act addresses land holding, management control and dispute
processing. The act creates a series of land administration institutions, namely, Uganda
Land Commission (ULC), District Land Boards (DLB), Parish Land Committees (PLC)
and land tribunals. Section 78 of the Act gives valuation principles for compensation, i.e.
compensation rates to be yearly approved by DLBs. The basis for compensation are
depreciated replacement costs for rural properties and market values for urban
properties.
Uganda clearly has the regulatory and administrative framework for issues related to the
environment
23



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
6.0 DESCRIPTION OF THE WORLD BANK'S SAFEGUARD POLICIES
The World Bank Safeguard Policies are;
1.    Environmental Assessment OP 4.01
2.    Natural Habitats OP 4.04
3.    Forestry OP 4 36
4     Pest Management OP 4.09
5.    Cultural Property OP 4.11
6.    Indigenous Peoples OD 4.20
7.    Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12
8.    Safety of Dams OP 4.37
9.    Projects on International Waters OP 7.50
10.   Projects in Disputed Areas OP 7.60
In light of the type of future sub-projects anticipated, the following World Bank
Operational Policies will/may apply:
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment
OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
Sub projects that trigger the policies on Safety of Dams , Natural Habitats, Forestry, Pest
Management, Cultural Property, Indigenous Peoples, Projects on International Waters
and Projects in Disputed areas would not be supported under the project.
* OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment
This policy requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects proposed for Bank
financing to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus
to improve decision making. The EA is a process whose breadth, depth, and type of
analysis depend on the nature, scale, and potential environmental impact of the sub
project activities of LGDP II. The EA process takes into account the natural environment
( air, water, and land); human health and safety; social aspects (involuntary
resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property) and transboundary and global
environmental aspects.
The environmental and social impacts of the LGDP II project will come from the activities
of the many sub projects that the LGDP II will be financing. However, since the sub
projects will not identified before appraisal of the project, the EA process calls for the
GoU to prepare a Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) report
which will establish a mechanism to determine and assess future potential
environmental and social impacts of the local government and community sub project
investments under the proposed LGDP II, and then to set out mitigation, monitoring and
institutional measures to be taken during implementation and operation of the sub
projects to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce
them to acceptable levels.
24



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
OP 4.01 further requires that the ESMF report must be disclosed as a separate and
stand alone document by the Government of Uganda and the World Bank as a condition
for Bank Appraisal of the LGDP II. The disclosure should be both in Uganda where it can
be accessed by the general public and local communities and at the Infoshop of the
World Bank and the date for disclosure must precede the date for appraisal of the
project.
The policy further calls for the LGDP II project as a whole to be environmentally
screened to determine the extent and type of the EA process. The LGDP II has thus
been screened and assigned a Category B
Category B projects are likely to have potential adverse environmental impacts
on human populations or environmentally important areas - including wetlands,
forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats - and are less adverse than those
of category A projects. These impacts are site specific, few if any of them are
irreversible, and in most cases mitigation measures can be designed more
readily than for category A projects. The EA process for category B projects
examines the potential negative and positive environmental impacts and
recommends any measures needed to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or
compensate for adverse impacts and improve environmental performance.
Therefore, this ESMF sets out to establish the EA process to be undertaken for sub
projects in the proposed LGDP II project when they are being identified.
* OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
Significant efforts are to be made in the design and screening stages of sub projects
to avoid impacts on people, land, property, including people's access to natural and
other economic resources, as far as possible. Notwithstanding, land acquisition,
compensation and resettlement of people seem inevitable for certain categories of
sub projects. This social issue is of crucial concern to the Government of Uganda
and the Bank as its impact on poverty, if left unmitigated, is negative, immediate and
widespread. Thus, a resettlement policy framework has been prepared by the
government and approved by the bank in compliance with OP 4.12 This framework
sets the guidelines for the resettlement plans that would have to be prepared for any
sub project that triggers this policy. The resettlement plans would have to be
submitted to the TPC for approval but would also have to be approved by the Bank
before the sub projects are financed.
This policy would be triggered when a sub project causes the involuntary taking of
land and other assets resulting in: (a) relocation or loss of shelter, (b) loss of assets
or access to assets (c) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
the affected persons must move to another location.
The resettlement policy applies to all displaced persons regardless of the total
number affected, the severity of the impact and whether or not they have legal title to
the land. Particular attention should be paid to the needs of vulnerable groups
among those displaced. The policy also requires that the implementation of the
resettlement plans are a pre-requisite for the implementation of the sub projects to
25



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
ensure that displacement or restriction of access does not occur before necessary
measures for resettlement and compensation are in place. For sub projects involving
land acquisition, it is further required that these measures include provision of
compensation and of other assistance required for relocation, prior to displacement,
and preparation and provision of resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where
required In particular, the taking of land and related assets may take place only after
compensation has been paid and, where applicable, resettlement sites, new homes,
related infrastructure and moving allowances have been provided to displaced
persons. For sub projects requiring relocation or loss of shelter, the policy further
requires that measures to assist the displaced persons are implemented in
accordance with the sub projects resettlement plan of action. The policy aims to have
the displaced persons perceive the process to be fair and transparent.
OP 4.12 requires the RPF to be disclosed both in Uganda and at the Bank before
appraisal.
26



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
7.0 PROPOSED INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
7.1   Background and Lessons Learned.
As presented earlier, the institutions of the local government system that exist on the
ground are truly functional. The links between Central Government and Local
Governments and that between Local Governments is established and operational. In
this respect the Government of Uganda has achieved remarkable success down this
path of decentralization and should be commended for it.
However, there are weaknesses in the system. These weaknesses are not structural
because the many different layers that exist are necessary to ensure accountability,
community participation  and delivery of services. The weaknesses in the local
government system are in the linkages between the layers and how effectively this
facilitates a bottom up approach in terms of planning and decision making on one hand
and on the other is being followed by flow of knowledge transfer in the reverse top down
direction. For sustainability of the decentralized local government system, maintaining a
functional two directional flow is where the challenges lie.
Therefore, the proposals presented in this section are designed so that the proposed
LGDP 11 will strengthen the linkages between the layers in both directions so as to
achieve sustainable socio-economic development in Uganda.
During the course of the in-country consultations for the preparation of this EA report
the following concerns were raised;
(i)   The so called Environmental check list prepared for use in the LGDP I to
screen the sub-projects by the relevant committees were very rarely
used. The reasons for this as expressed by those consulted in the local
governments was that the check list was too long and complicated for the
size and scale of sub projects being planned, and that there was no one
person in any of the committee's whose responsibility it was to ensure
there use. The reason partly for this was that even though the Local
Governments from Level 4 down were suppose to have an environmental
officer, that post has remained unfilled.
(ii)  There is an environmental officer at the level of the District Councils but
given the size and shear volume of sub-projects being planned and
implemented at lower level, the technical back up to lower local
governments was unavailable
(iii)  There were far too many completed and handed over investments/sub-
projects that were not being properly maintained and as a result even
though they were suitable designed in compliance with environmental
safeguards, these facilities were not functional and the very mitigation
measures designed to address impacts were now rendered ineffective.
For instance sewage disposal systems for toilets were blocked and
spilling out raw sewage onto the ground, public water stand pipes were
not draining as designed again due to blockages in the system, solid and
27



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
liquid medical waste from health units was being dumped on the ground
or in uncovered pits in the ground, classroom blocks were left in poor
state of maintenance over protracted periods etc.
(iv)  More so for agribusiness type sub-projects such as demonstration cattle
crashes (for vaccinating cattle)  and new technology seed and crop
demonstration plant farms, etc., these were located too closely to surface
water courses and natural springs when they did not conform to the
requirements of a proper waste management plan and pest management
plan. In LGDP II there is expected to be a considerable proliferation of
these type of agribusiness investments that are expected to yield
considerable agricultural outputs
(v)   The Project Management Committees clearly did not see their role as
monitoring the mitigation measures designed into their facilities.
(vi)  The local governments whose role it was to monitor the PMC's seemed
simply overwhelmed by the large number of sub-projects to monitor and
the great travel distances between their head offices and the location of
these facilities posed significant obstacles to effective monitoring.
(vii)  In many cases too, it appeared that there was a deficiency in the
engineering design of the facilities and the designed mostly favored
excessive cutting down on construction costs which inevitably lead to
significantly higher costs in maintaining these facilities . This was due to
poor supervision of the designers and of the construction process.
(viii)  The level of community participation was difficult to ascertain as all
available indicators led to determining only those who participated. It was
difficult to conclusively and accurately determine what percentage of the
community participated and what percentage did not.
(ix)  On issues of resettlement, this remained a gray area. The emphasis was
put on the community to identify their own land without the Technical
Planning Committees making any attempt to determine whether or not
people in those communities were impacted. The TPC's assumed that
since the land was identified by the community, any resettlement issues
that led to compensation did not arise or if they did, that it was settled in
an amicable way.
7.2   Institutional Framework
7.2.1 Recommendations
The following institutional arrangements are recommended to address the issues
identified above. To use the existing local government structure but to strengthen the
institutions through changes in responsibilities of technical people on committee's,
putting an effective monitoring mechanism procedure in place and in providing training at
all levels of local government to build capacity. Specifically;
28



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
(a) Identify a person on every  Local Government Councils, TPC's,
PMC's and PDC's . This person is to serve as the Environmental
Resource Person ( not a new post but adding responsibility to one of
the existing post in the committee) who would be the custodian of the
Environmental and Social Checklist with overall responsibility of
ensuring compliance of the requirements thereof This resource
person would be provided training. This will strengthen the top down
linkages with knowledge transfer to the lowest levels of the local
government system.
(b) Place responsibility of management of sub-projects on the PMC's and
monitor compliance by ensuring that monthly/quarterly/half yearly
reports (some may be in the form of filling out simple half page forms)
are completed and sent to the next higher level of TPC The reports to
indicate operational state of sub-project and measures taken in that
period to repair or restore functionality. If reports are not regularly
forthcoming or if report after report constantly indicates poor
operational state of facility, this would indicate the level of
maintenance of the sub-project by the PMC. This could then be
followed with a site Visit to help the PMC address the problem The
incentive of looking favorable on those communities that look after
their sub-projects against those who do not at the planning
committees when the decisions are made next time around on which
communities are approved for additional sub-projects This reporting
system is designed to provide information to the higher local
governments to assist them with their monitoring responsibilities
without them having to make site visits to all of them. This strengthens
the linkages in the bottom up linkages by providing information from
the level of the sub-project operators to higher levels where this
information can be processed and changes made which can be feed
back down the local government structures
(c) The Environmental and Social Checklist remains the most effective
way of efficiently screening sub-projects. However, it must be revised
and upgraded so that it conforms with the provisions of this ESMF and
all the RPF , but also making it simpler and easier to use by all It use
will also be monitored.
29



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                          ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
7.2.2. Summary of Proposed Institutional Framework
The Proposed Institutional Framework for the LGDP 11 would be the same as that for
LGDP I as contained in the "Guide to Participatory Planning and Management"
contained in tables on pages 16-20)and summarized here below,
1)    Sub projects into categorized into three types:
( a) Local Community Sub Projects
( b) Sub County Sub Projects or Division Sub Projects or Town Council
Sub projects.
(c) District Sub Projects.
2)    Approval of Subprojects
Community sub projects are approved by their Local Council.
Sub County, Division, or Town Council sub projects are approved by their Local
Government Council.
District sub projects are approved by their District Council.
3)    Screening and Appraisal of Subprojects.
Community Sub projects will be screened by the Technical Planning Committee
(TPC) who would then recommend for approval to the local council if sub project
complies with all requirements including those contained in this ESMF.
Sub County, Division or Town Council sub projects will be screened also by the
TPC with support from the District Technical Committee/planner who would then
recommend for approval to the local government council if sub project complies
with all requirements including those contained in this ESMF
District sub projects will be screened by the District Technical Planning
Committee assisted by the District Planner who would then recommend for
approval to the District Council if sub project complies with all requirements
including those contained in this ESMF.
4)    Subproject Implementers/Preparation of Subprojects
Community sub projects will be implemented and prepared on behalf of local
communities by their Project Management Committees (PMC's).
Sub County , Division and Town Council Sub projects will be implemented
prepared by their Investment Committee.
30



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
District Sub Projects will be implemented and prepared by the District Technical
Department.
It is during this preparation stage that sub project implementers would use the
screening form in Annex 1 and the revised LGDP 1 environmental and social
screening checklist assisted by service providers to identify any impacts that their
sub projects may have and then before submitting their sub projects to be
approved, would design their sub projects to mitigate these impacts, so that the
sub projects they are proposing and have designed would have identified their
impacts and have mitigated them.
31



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
8.0 PROPOSED SCREENING/ ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL
ASSESSMENT PROCESS FOR SUB PROJECTS
The sections below will illustrate the specific steps involved in the environmental and
social assessment process leading towards the clearance and approval of EA process
for sub projects. The steps incorporate both, Uganda's guidelines as well as with the
Bank's policy OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. In applying these steps, with
assistance of the Technical Planning Committees (TPC's) of the local governments, the
Investment Committees (IC's), Project Management Committees (PMC's) and District
Technical Departments (DPT's) (i e. the sub project implementers) will gain initial
experience with the environmental and social assessment of their sub projects This
initial experience which will be invaluable to the implementers when they assume
responsibility for managing the mitigation measures involved in the implementation,
operational and monitoring stages of the sub projects. Therefore, under the proposed
project, capacity will be developed at the level of the TPC's ,DPT's, IC's and PMC's and
their service providers to carry out the following EA process:
(a).  Implementers will screen their own sub projects to identify environmental
and social impacts using screening form in Annex 1 and the revised
LGDP I environmental and social checklist In a few cases the checklist
may require that a sub project conducts a sub project environmental and
social impact assessment (ESIA) for certain types of impacts
(b).  Then the implementers will introduce into the sub project design the
required measures to mitigate impacts identified from use of the checklist
or sub project ESIA, before submission of the sub project for review and
subsequent approval.
(c).  Review and clear the sub projects by ensuring sub project designs have
identified environmental and social impacts, mitigated these impacts and
have monitoring plans and institutional measures to be taken during
implementation and operation.
Using the screening form, revised environmental and social checklists and technical
assistance from service providers and information resources supported by the
PCU/Local Governments, proposed sub projects will be screened by their respective
implementers, to identify any potential adverse impacts/effects from sub project
activities.
Once impacts are identified the necessary mitigation measure would then be identified
from the checklist and then sub project would be designed to implement these
mitigation measures. For example, from a social standpoint if the screening form
identifies land acquisition needs that trigger OP4 12 on Involuntary Resettlement, then
the required mitigation measure would be to chose an alternative land site that does not
trigger this policy or, the implementer of the subproject prepares a resettlement and
compensation plan consistent with the disclosed RPF
From an environmental stand point, the screening form and checklist may identify
impacts from sub project activities, such as contamination of ground water sources due
to inappropriate waste disposal. The mitigation measure may be to chose a site far away
32



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
from the water source so that chances of contamination are not possible and/or
incorporate appropriate waste disposal measures into the design such as channeling all
waste to closed system that is periodically emptied and disposed of safely.
For some cases ( a minority of cases) where the impacts from sub project activities are
determined by use of the checklist to be severe or challenging , the recommendation
may be that a sub project ESIA be carried following which the sub project would then be
designed to incorporate the required results/mitigation measure.
ESIA will be required for sub projects involving new roads, incorporating the use of
hazardous chemicals and/or managing solid, liquid or medical wastes and for any sub
project costing over US$100,000.
See Annex 2.0 for procedures for sub projects requiring ESIA.
Once the implementers have completed the screening of their sub projects and designed
into them the necessary mitigation measures, sub project proposals would then be sent
to the respective TPC's for review and to check for compliance with this EA process.
The sub projects that are sent for review must be accompanied by their completed
screening forms and completed checklists. If the screening form has any "Yes" entries,
or evidently unjustified "No" entries, the application would need to adequately explain
and demonstrate from its design the issue has been managed to avoid unacceptable
adverse effects/impacts. If the application has satisfactorily addressed these issues it
will be recommended for approval to the respective approving body. For approved sub
projects, the TPC as reviewer will determine environmental and social approval
conditions the implementer must adhere to in the detailed planning, construction and
operation of the investment. These conditions may include, for example, such measures
as public involvement, siting or routing restrictions, construction and operation practices,
restoration of disturbed areas, the complete implementation of a plan for resettlement or
compensation for land acquisition and, construction supervision to ensure the approval
conditions are being followed.
If, however the sub project application unsatisfactorily addresses these issues it may be
rejected out right or rejected with the requirement to carry out a sub project ESIA in
cases where one was not done before or with specific recommendations such as to
change site, or re-design waste management, reduce air pollution etc.
The rejected sub project will then have to be re-designed and re-screened by the
implementer and then re-submitted for review. The revised application will then have to
be reviewed again and, if now acceptable, will be recommended for consideration for
approval. If it is not acceptable for the second time, it would be referred back to the
implementer for more work or denied clearance altogether.
Any proposed sub projects that do not comply with the requirements of the Environment
Act 1995 of Uganda and the requirements of the World Bank Safeguards policies will not
be cleared for approval.
This process is designed to ensure that the environmental and social assessment
process is part of and conducted during the sub project design process thereby ensuring
that sub project activities are environmentally and socially sound and sustainable
33



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) subproject proposals must contain as part of
the subproject proposal an EMP that will consist of a set of mitigation measures,
monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and
operation of the sub projects to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts,
offset them or reduce them to acceptable levels. The EMP should also include the
actions needed to implement these measures, including the following features,
Mitigation: Based on the environmental and social impacts identified from
use of the cheklists, the EMP should describe with technical details each
mitigation measure, together with designs, equipment descriptions and
operating procedures as appropriate.
Monitoring: Environmental and social monitoring during the implementation
of the sub projects, in order to measure the success of the mitigation
measures. The EMP should include monitoring objectives that specify the
type of monitoring activities that will be linked to the mitigation measures.
Specifically, the monitoring section of the EMP provides:
*     A  specific description and technical details of monitoring
measures that include the parameters to be measured, the methods to be
used, sampling locations, frequency of measurements, detection limits (
where appropriate), and definition of thresholds that will signal the need
for corrective actions, e.g. the need for on site construction supervision
*     Monitoring and reporting procedures to ensure early detection of
conditions that necessitate particular mitigation measures and to furnish
information on the progress and results of mitigation, e.g. by annual
audits and surveys to monitor overall effectiveness of the ESMF.
The EMP should also provide a specific description of institutional arrangements , i.e.
who is responsible for carrying out the mitigating and monitoring measures ( for
operation, supervision, enforcement, monitoring of implementation, remedial action,
financing, reporting and staff training.)
Additionally, the EMP should include an estimate of the costs of the measures and
activities recommended so that the PMC's can budget the necessary funds Similar to
the process for carrying out the ESIA, the mitigation and monitoring measures
recommended in the EMP should be developed in consultation with all affected groups
to include their concerns and views in the design of the EMP.
Public Consultations: Public consultations are critical in preparing an effective and
sustainable sub project. This requirement supports the participatory planning process
that exist in Uganda at the local government/councils level when sub projects are being
identified as part of the development and implementation local development plans for the
area. The first step is to hold public consultations with the local communities and all
other interested /affected parties These consultations should identify key issues and
determine how the concerns of all parties will be addressed in the terms of reference of
the design of sub project activities. To facilitate meaningful consultations, the local
governments through their implementers will provide all relevant material and
information concerning the sub projects in a timely manner prior to the consultation, in a
34



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
form and language that are understandable and accessible to the groups being
consulted. Depending on the public interest in the potential impacts of the sub projects, a
public hearing may be requested to better convey concerns. To ensure that an
appropriate public consultation mechanism is developed, the TPC's will ensure that the
revised LGDP 1 checklist includes such a requirement. Once the sub project has been
reviewed and cleared by the TPC's and local government councils, the implementers will
inform the public about the results of the review. This approach would be consistent with
the Bank's OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment as well as Uganda's efforts to enhance
its participatory planning process.
35



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                        ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
9.0 PROPOSED CAPACITY BUILDING MEASURES AND COSTS
ESTIMATES
Capacity building for environmental and social management
As described in an earlier section of this framework, component 3 of the LGDPII project
has a Capacity Building Component to finance, develop and strengthen the private and
public services sector linked to the decentralization process. The LGDP 11 as part of its
objectives, is designed to significantly grow the rural economy in Uganda, by building
capacity through the development of human resources to generate a viable services
industry
This would take the form of primarily identifying trainable members of civil society in the
local communities, local NGO's and public service workers to become service providers
to the PMC's and to serve on the TPC's providing technical assistance to them in the
areas of environmental impact assessment, screening etc Members of the communities
themselves would be trained on how to screen their sub projects and implement their
EMP's and managing the EA process as outlined in this ESMF.
At the moment, it is envisaged that the capacity at the rural level to provide service
providers is non existent or very minimal. The local governments have the best capacity
for implementing this EA process and supporting the TPC's Their capacity would be
greatly enhanced by this project.
The training program proposed below is directly relevant to the needs of the
implementers and reviewers and the offices of the National Environment Authority
(NEMA), particularly, with regard to environmental assessment and environmental
policies and procedures. It will be provided through national private institutions of higher
learning.
The inclusion of case studies in the proposed training program would facilitate the
exchange of experiences in Uganda and other countries in the region who are
successfully implementing community participatory demand driven sub projects through
a decentralized local government delivery system, would be particularly helpful. The EA
process, the screening form in Annex 1 , the revised LGDP 1 Environmental and Social
Checklist and the disclosed resettlement policy framework, would be reviewed in the
training program so that participants are aware of their content and the responsibilities
outlined in them for various parties
Additional training with regard to environmental protection is proposed given the
prevalence of many important lakes, wetlands, flora and fauna in Uganda.
36



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
Proposed Training Program                                      Duration
Environmental and Social assessment process                        5days
eScreening process
* Assignment of environmental categories
* Rationale for using Screening form and Environmental and Social Checklists
* Preparation of terms of reference for carrying out ESIA
* How to review and approve sub project proposals
* The importance of public consultations in the EA process
* How to monitor project implementation
* Case studies
Environmental and Social policies, procedures and sectoral guidelines  3 days
* Review and discussion of Uganda's environmental policies, procedures, and
legislation.
* Review and discussion of the Bank's safeguards policies.
* Review of ESIA, Resettlement Plan.
* Review and discussion of Uganda's existing sectoral guidelines such as HPPG etc.
* Collaboration with institutions at the local, regional and national levels., e g. NEMA.
Selected topics on environmental protection                        2 days
* Soil erosion
* Flood protection
* Waste disposal, including medical/veterinary waste, hazardous chemical wastes such
as pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, etc.
* Ground and Surface Water management
Cost estimates
The costs estimates are based on the assumption that the training program will be held
at the regional levels; resource persons are likely to come from other parts of the country
and therefore require travel allowances; participants will come from the local community
and attend during the day only but will receive a per diem. These estimates include an
allowance for travel expenses. It is proposed that the training program will be
implemented four times a year, at least once in each quarter in each region over the first
two years of the project cycle. The Total costs is estimated at US$250,000
Recommendations
To successfully implement this ESMF, it s recommended that a comprehensive training
needs assessment and development of a training strategy plan be carried out as an
initial implementation activity which will , inter alia, determine and conform whether the
intense training program proposed will suffice or is required. It is further recommended
that technical assistance from more experienced environmental practitioners (from
NEMA for example) to "mentor" local government staff and support them in building
experience to complement the training program above and thus build their capacity.
37



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
10.0 MONITORING INDICATORS AND PLAN WITH COSTS
For LDGP I monitoring and evaluation guidelines for the sub-projects were developed to
monitor performance (to guide allocations) and process ( to track the lessons learned to
enable project replication) These guidelines suggested what should be monitored,
indicators of achievement of improvements, means of verifying the improvements,
frequency of monitoring, methodology or how the monitoring will be done, and finally
who is responsible for the monitoring.
Additionally, for LGDP II, these guidelines will be revised to provide clear and functional
environmental/social issues monitoring and evaluation roles and responsibilities, and to
provide monitoring  indicators in order to measure the success of the mitigation
measures, cumulative impacts from implementation of multiple sub projects,
compliances with approval processes and conditions, and identifying further ESMF
process-strengthening and capacity building needs.
Responsibilities for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Mitigation Measures would be
assigned as follows:
The Technical Planning Committee's (TPC's) - The Local Government Councils will
be responsible for monitoring the environmental and social screening process carried
out by the TPC's . Details of the screening process are outlined earlier in this report.
The Implementers - will be responsible for monitoring of (i) the environmental and
social assessment work to be carried out on its behalf by service providers, (ii)
overseeing the implementation of the resettlement plans. The monitoring will be done by
the technical staff of the implementers who will be trained
The National Environment Authority (NEMA)
NEMA will perform an enforcement monitoring role supported by the local governments(
who would perform a self monitoring role) with particular focus on monitoring cumulative
impacts of the subprojects on a National level and to ensure that individual sub project
mitigation measures are effective at the cumulative and national level. NEMA would
primarily achieve this objective taking the overall responsibility for coordinating and
implementing the Training Program and for technical assistance and backup services to
the Local Governments.
Other Government Agencies
The departmental technical heads of Districts and Municipalities will ensure that they
play an oversight role in sub projects that impact their sectors. For example, the District
Medical Officer or the District Education Officer will provide oversight for all health and
education sub projects, respectively, in their districts.
Monitoring activities by the TPC, Implementers, NEMA, will be performed periodically
through performance surveys/audits.
38



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
The arrangements for monitoring would fit the overall monitoring plan of the entire LGDP
11 project which would be through the Ministry of Local Government and the Local
Governments themselves.
The objective for monitoring will be to make a final evaluation in order to determine
whether the mitigation measures designed into the sub-projects have been successful in
such a way that the pre- subproject environmental and social condition has been
restored, improved upon or worst than before
A number of indicators would be used in order to determine the status of affected people
their environment (land being used compared to before, standard of house compared to
before, level of participation in project activities compared to before, how many kids in
school compared to before, health standards, how many clean water sources than
before, how many people employed than before etc). Therefore, the sub projects EA's
will set three major socio-economic goals by which to evaluate its success:
* Affected individuals, households, and communities are able to maintain their pre-
project standard of living, and even improve on it;
*  Has the pre-subproject environmental state of natural resources, bio-diversity
and flora and fauna, been maintained or improved upon, and
* The local communities remain supportive of the project
In order to access whether these goals are met, the sub-project will indicate parameters
to be monitored, institute monitoring milestones and provide resources necessary to
carry out the monitoring activities.
The following parameters and verifiable indicators will be used to measure the EA
process, RPF, mitigation plans and performance,
For the EA process the following indicators;
*  Number of environmental resource persons on committees who have
successfully received EA training in screening methods etc. ; evaluate the
training content, methodology and trainee response to training through feedback.
*  Numbers of women trained; assess understanding of the need for the EA
process as a tool for sustainable development
*  Number of local governments who have adopted the EA process as required by
LGDP 11; evaluate the rate of adoption
* Number of sub-projects screened.
* In how local government planning stages is the EA checklist applied?; Are the
numbers increasing and at what rate?
*  How has the adoption of the EA requirements improved the ehvironmental health
and bio-physical state of the communities using/affected by the sub-projects
* What are the main benefits that members derive from the use of the EA process?
Economic Benefits (i) Increase in achievement of sub-projects adopting
EA guidelines (ii) Increase in revenue for PMC's resulting from adoption
of EA guidelines, compared with conventional practices.
39



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                                  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
Social Benefits - improvement in the environmental health status of
farmers
Environmental Benefits (i) improvement in the sustainable use of
Uganda's natural resources.
* Efficiency of sub-projects maintenance and operating performance
* Overall assessment of (i) activities that are going well (ii) activities that need
improvem6ents and (iii) remedial actions required.
For RPF the following indicators.
*   Questionnaire data will be entered into a database for comparative analysis at all
levels of Local Governments,
*   Each individual will have a compensation dossier recording his or her initial
situation, all subsequent project use of assets/improvements, and compensation
agreed upon and received.
*   The Local Governments will maintain a complete database on every individual
impacted    by    the    sub-project   land    use    requirements    including
relocation/resettlement and compensation, land impacts or damages
*   Percentage of individuals selecting cash or a combination of cash and in-kind
compensation,
*   Proposed use of payments
* The number of contention cases out of the total cases
* The number of grievances and time and quality of resolution
*  Ability of individuals and families to re-establish their pre-displacement activities,
land and crops or other alternative incomes
* Mining and Agricultural productivity of new lands
* Number of impacted locals employed by the civil works contractors
* Seasonal or inter annual fluctuation on key foodstuffs
* General relations between the project and the local communities
The following indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate the implementation of
resettlement and compensation plans;
VERIFIABLE INDICATORS
Monitoring                                  Evaluation
Outstanding compensation or resettlement contracts  Outstanding individual compensation or resettlement
not completed before next agricultural season  contracts
Communities unable to set village-level     Outstanding village compensation contracts
compensation after two years
Grievances recognized as legitimate out of all  All legitimate grievances rectified
complaints lodged.
Pre- project production and income ( year before  Affected individuals and/or households
land used) versus present production and income of  compensated or resettled in first year who have
resettlers, off-farm-income trainees, and users of  maintained their previous standard of living at final
improved mining or agricultural techniques  evaluation.
Pre- project production versus present production (  Equal or improved production per household
crop for crop, land for land).
40



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                             ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
Monitoring and Supervision Plan
The following monitoring and supervision plan is proposed as a basis for initiating
supervision; this plan will be modified according to progress in the implementation of the
Project Implementation Manual.
Project year              Monitoring and Supervision activities listed
1     2      3     4      5     6      7     8      9
Year 1-2
Year 3-4
Year 5-6
Monitoring and Supervision Reporting
To facilitate effective monitoring and supervision of ESMF and RPF implementation, the LGDP II
Assessment Manual will be changed so that the form used by local governments to record basic
information on approved sub-projects includes the following questions.
1) What measures, if any, are included in the subproject to avoid or reduce adverse
environmental and social impacts9
2) Was an ESIA prepared for the subproject?  Yes_ No_  Was a Resettlement Plan
prepared for the subproject?  Yes_  No_
3) What environmental and social conditions are attached to the subproject approval?
Furthermore, the assessment questions used on the six-monthly internal LG performance
reviews, and the annual independent performance reviews, will be changed to gather information
on the kinds of indicators of ESMF and RFP performance discussed above For these reviews,
the basic questions to ask about sub-project implementation are
1) Were subproject environmental and social approval conditions followed9 If not, Why?
2) Are there evident environmental or social impacts of the subproject that need to be mitigated9
If yes, what mitigation is required?
3) What key factor(s) influenced the success (or lack of success) of environmental and social
impact mitigation measures9
The overall question to ask is. Based on the performance of the subprojects reviewed, what, if
any changes to the ESMF or RFP, and additional training and capacity building, are required to
improve the performance of ESMF and RPF implementation?"
Capacity Development and Training
In order to assist the Local governments in strengthening their environmental
assessment capacity, it will be necessary to recruit qualified service providers to be
funded under component 3 of the project. A breakdown of the costs of the service
providers is given below.
41



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
Subproject Implementers: The Local government council responsible for approving
sub-projects will recruit qualified service providers to train environmental resource
person of the implementers to acquire skills in (i) environmental screening, and (il) the
preparation of mitigation measures ( iii) prepare resettlement plans and sub-project
ESIA's. The cost of these activities would be included in the local governments
development budget for the community.
Technical Planning Committee's (TPC's): The local government council will recruit
qualified service providers to assist in fulfilling its responsibilities , such as review sub-
project EA's, resettlement plans, environmental review, monitoring etc.
The costs to be incurred will be as follows:
Environmental assessment of sub-projects. As recommended ESIA's will be carried
out for a minority of sub-projects as needed (see page 32). The average cost of
individual sub-projects that may require ESIA's is estimated to be around $50,000/sub-
projects. It is estimated that 0.5% of the costs will be required to carry out ESIA's,
amounting to $250/per ESIA/sub-project. Assuming there are 200 sub-projects in the life
of LGDPII that require ESIA's, the total cost for EA is estimated at $50,000.
Total cost of carrying out EA: $50,000
Resettlement Plans The preparation of resettlement plans and social assessments will
be carried out by qualified service providers on behalf of implementers . Provision would
be made under this project at the district level to support this work. It is estimated that
15% of sub-projects or 300 , may require resettlement plans; that it takes about 10 days
to prepare a resettlement plan and related studies, at a rate of $35/day, the preparation
of the 300 resettlement plans will cost $105,000.
Total cost of carrying out Resettlement Plan: $105,000
42



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
ANNEX 1.0
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SCREENING FORM
The Environmental and Social Screening Form (ESSF) has been designed to assist in
the evaluation of sub-components of the LGDP II in Uganda. The form is designed to
place information in the hands of implementers and reviewers (PMC's and TPC's and
LG's) so that impacts and their mitigation measures, if any, can be identified and/or that
requirements for further environmental analysis be determined
The ESSF contains information that will allow reviewers to determine the
characterization of the prevailing local bio-physical and social environment with the aim
to assess the potential sub project impacts on it. The ESSF will also identify potential
socio-economic impacts that will require mitigation measures and or resettlement and
compensation.
Name of Sub Project:
Development Sector of Sub Project:
Name of Sub Project Execution Organization:
Name of District where is to be implemented:
Name of Local Government:
Name of Approving Authority:
Name, job title, and contact details for the person who is responsible for filling out this
form.
Name:
Job Title:
Telephone number:
Fax number
E-Mail address.
Date:
Signature-
43



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                          ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
1. Brief Sub Project Description
Please provide information on the type and scale of the sub project (project area, area of
required land, approximate size of total building floor areas, etc.)
2. The Natural Environment
(a) Describe the land formation, topography, vegetation in/adjacent to the Sub Project
area
(b) Estimate and indicate where vegetation might need to be cleared
(c) Are there any environmentally sensitive areas or threatened species (specify below)
that could be adversely affected by the project?
(i) Intact natural forests Yes  No_
(ii) Riverine forest Yes  No_
(iii) Wetlands (lakes, rivers, seasonally inundated areas) Yes  No_
(iv) How far is the nearest Wetlands((lakes, rivers, seasonally inundated
areas)?                   km
(v) Habitats of endangered species for which protection is required under
Ugandan laws and/or international agreements. Yes  No_
(vi) Others (describe) Yes  No_
44



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                          ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Ii (LGDP II)
3. Rivers and Lakes Ecology
Is there a possibility that, due to construction and operation of the sub project, the river
and lake ecology will be adversely affected ? Attention should be paid to water quality
and quantity; the nature, productivity and use of aquatic habitats, and variations of these
over time.
Yes       No_
4. Protected areas
Does the project area (or components of the project) occur within/adjacent to any
protected areas designated by government (national park, national reserve, world
heritage site etc.)
Yes       No_
If the project is outside of, but close to, any protected area, is it likely to adversely affect
the ecology within the protected area areas (e.g., interference with the migration routes
of mammals or birds)
Yes       No_
5. Geology and Soils
Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas of possible geologic
or soil instability (erosion prone, landslide prone, subsidence-prone)?
Yes       No_
Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas that have risks of
large scale increase in soil salinity?
Yes       No_
6. Landscape/aesthetics
Is there a possibility that the sub project will adversely affect the aesthetic attractiveness
of the local landscape?
Yes      No_
45



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                          ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
7. Historical, archaeological or cultural heritage site.
Based on available sources, consultation with local authorities, local knowledge and/or
observations, could the sub project alter any historical, archaeological or cultural
heritage site or require excavation near same?
Yes       No_
8. Resettlement and/or Land Acquisition
Will involuntary resettlement, land acquisition, or loss, denial or restriction of access to
land and other economic resources be caused by sub project implementation?
Yes       No_
9. Loss of Crops, Fruit Trees and Household Infrastructure
Will the project result in the permanent or temporary loss of crops, fruit trees and
household infra-structure (such as granaries, outside toilets and kitchens, etc)?
Yes    No_
10. Noise pollution during Construction and Operations.
Will the operating noise level exceed the allowable noise limits?
Yes   No_
11. Solid or Liquid Wastes, including Medical Waste.
Will the sub-project generate solid or liquid wastes, including medical waste?
Yes_      No_
If "Yes", does the project include a plan for their adequate collection and disposal?
Yes_      No_
12. Pesticides, Insecticides, Herbicides or any other Poisonous or Hazardous
Chemicals.
Will the sub-project require the use of such chemicals?
46



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                           ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
Yes    No_
If, "Yes", does the sub project include a plan for their safe handling, use and disposal?
Yes_   No_
47



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
Annex 2.0 Procedures for Sub-project Investments Requiring ESIA
Step 1: Screening
To determine the depth of ESIA required, potential impacts in the following areas need
to be considered:
* Social issues
* Health issues
* Protected areas
* Cultural heritage, archaeological sites
* Existing natural resources such as forests, soils, wetlands, water resources
* Wildlife or endangered species' habitats
Step 2: Scoping
To identify the relevant environmental and social issues, this step determines:
* Level of detail required for the ESIA
* Extent of the area to be covered in light of the potential impact zones
*  Timeframe for the ESIA based on the potential impact zones
* Sequencing and scheduling of the various ESIA tasks
* Preliminary budgets
Step 3: Preparation of Terms of Reference for sub project ESIAs
Based on the screening and scooping results, ESIA terms of reference will be prepared.
The ESIA will be conducted by a local service provider, and the report should have the
following format.
* Description of the study area
* Description of the sub project
* Description of the environment
* Legislative and regulatory considerations
* Determination of the potential impacts of the proposed sub projects
* Public consultations process
* Development of mitigation measures and a monitoring plan, including cost
estimates
48



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                            ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
Annex 3.0 LIST OF INDIVIDUALS/INSTITUTIONS
The Project Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Local Government, Kampala
The National Environment Agency, Kampala
Makasa Municipal Council
Mubende District
Mbale Municipal County Council
Wakiso District
The World Bank Task Team
The World Bank ASPEN Team
49



GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA                           ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II (LGDP II)
Annex 4.0 REFERENCES
The Assignment Terms of Reference
Project Concept Document (PCD)
The evolving Draft Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
The approved Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS)
Mission Aide Memoir's
Project Implementation Plan for LGDP (I)
Participatory Guide to Local Councils
Harmonized Participatory Planning Guide (HPPG) for LGDP I
Environment Mitigation Plan for LGDP (I) (which contains the referred to checklist)
The Constitution of the Republic of Uganda 1995
The Local Governments Act 1997
The National Environment Statute 1995
The Land Act 1998
World Bank Safeguards Policies
50



