Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3773 UG 
GRANT NUMBER H041 UG 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Local Government Development Project) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 20, 2003
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3773 UG 
GRANT NUMBER H041 UG 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 2003, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
March 17, 2003, describing a program designed to improve fiscal decentralization, the 
control and management of public expenditure, and to strengthen the fiscal and 
institutional capacity of its local governments to provide improved basic public services 
(the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(B)  
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C)  
the Borrower intends to obtain from: (i) Republic of Ireland (Ireland Aid) 
a
grant in an amount equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand US dollars 
(US$7,500,000) (the Irish Cofinancing); (ii) Republic of Austria (Austrian Development 
Cooperation) a grant in an amount equivalent to three hundred thousand US dollars 
(US$300,000) (the Austrian Cofinancing); (iii) Kingdom of Denmark (Danish 
International Development Assistance (DANIDA)) a grant in an amount equivalent to 
two million four hundred thousand US dollars (US$2,400,000) (the
 
DANIDA 
Cofinancing); and (iv) Kingdom of Netherlands a grant in an amount equivalent to fifteen 
million US dollars (US$15,000,000) (the Dutch Cofinancing), all to assist in financing 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into 
between: (i) the Borrower and Ireland Aid; (ii) the Borrower and Austrian Development 
Cooperation; (iii) the Borrower and DANIDA; and (iv)  the Borrower and Kingdom of 
Netherlands (the Cofinancing Agreements); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Capacity Building Grant” means a grant, made, or to be made, to an 
Eligible Local Government (as hereinafter defined) to finance a Subproject (as 
hereinafter defined) under Part C of the Project, pursuant to a Participation Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(b) 
“District” means a district established under the Borrower’s Constitution 
and its Local Governments Act (as hereinafter defined); 
(c) 
“Eligible Local Government” means a Local Government (as hereinafter 
defined), which is deemed to be eligible on the basis of the eligibility criteria referred to 
in Section 2 of the PIP (as hereinafter defined), for accessing a Local Development Grant 
(as hereinafter defined) or a Capacity Building Grant; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for works, goods, and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” and “Environmental and Social 
Management Framework Report” means the set of mitigation, monitoring and 
institutional measures that have been identified to be taken during the implementation of 
the Project to mitigate potential adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, 
reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(g) 
“Environmental Checklist” means a checklist for environmental 
assessment and audit of Subprojects under Part B of the Project, to eliminate any adverse 
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or to 
enhance positive impacts; 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
 “Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, which begins on July 1 
and ends on June 30 of the following year; 
(j) 
“Higher-Level Local Government” means (for the purposes of the 
Project) a District, a Municipality, and the Divisions of Kampala City Council; 
(k) 
“Institutional Plan” means a plan dated March 10, 2003 outlining the 
internal assignments within MOLG (as hereinafter defined) to support the 
implementation of the Project; 
(l) 
“LGDP 1” means the First Local Government Development Program; 
(m) 
“LGDP 1 Third Tranche” means the final Tranche of the proceeds of the 
credit allocated to category (4) (c) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated 
December 22, 1999 for the LGDP 1; 
(n) 
“Letter of Sector Policy” means the Borrower’s letter referred to in 
paragraph (A) of the preamble to this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Local Development Grant” means a grant, made, or to be made, to an 
Eligible Local Government to finance a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part B 
of the Project pursuant to a Participation Agreement (as hereinafter defined); 
(p) 
“Local Government” means a local government established under the 
Local Governments Act (as hereinafter defined); 
(q) 
“Local Governments Act” means the Borrower’s Local Governments Act 
No.1 of 1997 as amended; 
(r) 
“Lower-Level Local Government” means (for the purposes of the 
Project) a Sub-county, a Municipal Division, and a Town Council; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(s) 
“MOLG” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government; 
(t) 
“Participation Agreement” means each of the agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower and a Higher Level Local Government for the purposes of 
making a Local Development Grant or a Capacity Building Grant, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and of the PIP (as hereinafter 
defined), as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Participation Agreement; 
(u) 
“PCU” means the Program Coordination Unit established within MOLG 
for the execution of the Project; 
(v) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
(w) 
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the Project 
Implementation Plan adopted by the Borrower on April 22, 2003, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Plan; 
(x) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of the funds from the Credit Account or the Grant Account following 
procedures referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(y) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework dated February 
20, 2003, outlining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation 
under Part B of the Project; 
(z) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement; and 
(aa) 
“Subproject” means: (i) an infrastructure investment financed, or 
proposed to be financed through a Local Development Grant under Part B of the Project; 
and (ii) an activity financed through a Capacity Building Grant under Part C of the 
Project, and which satisfies the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraphs 4 and 5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the PIP. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty six million seven 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 36,700,000) (the Credit); and 
(b)  
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty five million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 55,000,000 ) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account, in each 
case in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, D and E of the Project, and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing; and (b) amounts paid (or if the 
Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by a Local 
Government, under a Subproject (under Parts B and C of the Project) to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Subproject in respect of which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Grant Account is requested.  
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association:  (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as 
the case may be), or cancelled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
Page  7
-
6
-
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on October 15 and April 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
October 15 and April 15 commencing October 15, 2013 and ending April 15, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
Page  8
-
7
-
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment of the Credit to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III  
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall: 
(i) 
 carry out Parts A, D, and E of the Project through MOLG with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project; and 
(ii) 
cause Eligible Local Governments to carry out Parts B and C of the 
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental practices and 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required to enable Eligible Local 
Governments to carry out Parts B and C of the Project, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
Page  9
-
8
-
the carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project by Eligible Local 
Governments. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A, D and E of the  Project, and cause Eligible Local Governments to carry 
out Parts B and C of the Project, in accordance with the implementation program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in Uganda Shillings 
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
promptly thereafter: (i) make an initial deposit into such account, the 
Uganda Shillings equivalent to $ 250,000; and (ii) not later than December 31, 2003 
deposit into such account, the Uganda Shillings equivalent to $250,000,  all to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the Project; 
(c) 
thereafter deposit into the Project Account by December 1, March 1, 
June 1 and September 1 in  each year during the Project implementation, such amounts as 
shall be required to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the initial 
deposit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 3.04; and  
Page  10
-
9
-
(d) 
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to meet the expenditures made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services under the Project. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for 
Special Accounts A and B for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts,
 
and the 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were Report-based disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
Page  12
-
11
-
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure or the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraphs 11 and 12 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall, prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Financing and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Local Governments Act shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower 
or Eligible Local Governments to perform any of their obligations. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall have made available the proceeds of Financing 
allocated to Categories (5) and (6) under the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for any purpose other than for implementation of a Subproject under 
Parts B and C of the Project. 
 
(d)         (i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant, 
Netherlands Grant, Austrian Grant or Ireland Aid Grant made to 
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreements providing therefore. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and  
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)  
the Borrower has appointed to the Program Coordination Unit a 
procurement specialist having experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Association, and employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement; and 
(b) 
the Project Account referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement has 
been opened and an initial deposit of the Uganda Shillings equivalent of $250,000 has 
been made therein. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development 
PO Box 8147 
Kampala 
Uganda 
 
Cable address: 
Facsimile: 
FINSEC 
256-41 230 163  
Kampala  
 
For the Association: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
By 
/s/  Edith Ssempala 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/  Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category: 
 
Amount of the    
Amount of the   
 
 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated        
        % of 
 
(Expressed in  
 
(Expressed in 
 
 Expenditures 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)  Goods 
 
          733,000 
 
 
      0 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
90% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2)  Consultants’ 
     13,930,430 
 
 
     0 
 
90% 
 
services  
 
including Audit 
 
(3)  Training and 
       2,932,700 
 
                  0 
 
90% 
 
Workshops 
(4)  Operating Costs 
       2,200,000 
 
                  0 
 
90% 
 
(5)  Grants for Sub-     
       
        0 
 
    55,000,00 
 
100% of  
projects 
(under 
Part 
B) 
      the 
amounts 
disbursed 
 
(6)  Grants for Sub-    
       8,651,530 
 
 
     0 
 
100% of  
projects 
(under 
Part 
C) 
      the 
amounts 
disbursed 
 
(7)  Unallocated  
        8,252,340   
                  0 
 
 
_________  
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 
      36,700,000   
  55,000,000 
 
========
========
Page  18
-
17
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under Parts A, D and E of the Project on account of Project implementation, management 
and monitoring, including office rent, equipment and office supplies, utilities, 
consumables, maintenance and operation of Project motor vehicles, travel and 
accommodation for Project staff, and salaries of support staff of the Project, excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service;
 
and 
(d) 
the term “Training and Workshops” mean costs arising under Parts A, D 
and E of the Project on account of purchase of training materials and rental of training 
facilities, and  includes workshops designated for the purpose of annual review for 
decentralization, mid-term review, best practice manuals, property data and assessment, 
property tax administration, Local Government enhancement help desk manual, and other 
workshops designed for the purpose of approved training. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
 payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
(b) 
expenditures under Categories (5) and (6) unless the Eligible Local 
Governments have complied with the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
4. 
The Borrower has requested and the Association has agreed that withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Grant Account in respect of the Project be made on the 
basis of reports to be submitted by the Borrower to the Association in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other 
information as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursement). In the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before 
any withdrawal has been made from the Credit Account or the Grant Account, the 
Borrower shall submit to the Association only a statement with the projected sources and 
Page  19
-
18
-
applications of funds for the Project for the six 
–month period following the date of such 
request. 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under 
contracts for: (a) goods costing less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for works, 
under contracts costing less than $50,000, equivalent per contract; (c) for services of 
individual consultants costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) for 
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $350,000 equivalent per 
contract, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
Upon receipt of notification from the Association allowing the establishment of 
the Special Accounts, the Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars in a commercial 
bank acceptable to the Association: (a)  a special deposit account (Special Account “A”) 
for purposes of depositing the corresponding proceeds of the Financing for Parts A, D 
and E of the Project; and (b) a special deposit account (Special Account “B”) for the 
purposes of depositing the corresponding proceeds of the Financing for Parts B and C of 
the Project, both on terms and conditions satisfactory  to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Grant account 
of amounts to be deposited into the respective Special Accounts shall be made as follows:  
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:  
Page  20
-
19
-
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) and 4.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Sections 
in respect of the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the respective Special 
Accounts; or (ii) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure, as the case may be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the respective Special 
Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, 
and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.  
Page  21
-
20
-
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreements, including the General Conditions. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means: 
(a) in respect of Special Account A an amount of $460,000, to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex; and (b) in respect of Special Account B an amount of $680,000, to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:  
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account A or B, as 
the case may be, of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
respective Authorized Allocation for Special Account A or B, as the case may be.  On the 
basis of each such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the requested 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.  
(b) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the respective Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account and deposit into the requested Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the respective Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account or the Grant Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Grant minus the total 
Page  23
-
22
-
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Grant shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Grant Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into any Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the Grant Account under one 
or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit or the 
Grant, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account an amount 
equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the 
Association has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 
1
applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
reports. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the Local 
Government institutional performance for sustainable, decentralized service delivery. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
Support to the Decentralization Process
1. 
Improving the Local Governments’ capacity to implement the Fiscal 
Decentralization Strategy and tools to support decentralization of the development 
budget, including: (a) implementation of  effective integrated budgeting planning 
systems; (b) strengthening the Local Governments’ procurement systems; (c) 
dissemination and implementation of the Local Government Communication Strategy; 
and (d) implementation of a unified system for monitoring and evaluating performance, 
capacity and service delivery at the district and municipal council levels, all through the 
acquisition of goods and provision of technical advisory services.  
2. 
Formulation of a strategy to improve local financial management in the Local 
Governments which are not covered by the integrated financial management system in 
the short to medium term. 
3. 
(a) 
Supporting the institutional structure for decentralization by improving 
the capacity of Local Governments in administration, and ensuring coordinated structure 
for  decentralization and performance assessment systems for Local Governments, 
through the acquisition of goods and provision of technical advisory service. 
(b) 
Developing a national capacity building strategic framework and 
strengthening human resource development function of the Local Governments, through 
the provision of technical advisory services. 
(c) 
Designing institutional arrangements and scope for future 
decentralization and modalities for donor support. 
Page  26
-
25
-
(d) 
Identifying contradictory or inconsistent policies, laws and practices 
within the framework for decentralization with a view to making recommendations for 
harmonization. 
(e) 
Developing and implementing a framework for Lo
cal Governments’  
capacity building strategy for coordination of  capacity building activities to support 
decentralization. 
(f) 
Strengthening the capacity of the human resource development function 
of the Local Governments at the district and municipal council levels. 
(g) 
Carrying out audits of all the  Lower-Level Local Governments. 
(h) 
Supporting the process of harmonization of procurement regulations and 
practices of the Local Governments and the central government, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training. 
Part B
:
Local Development Service Delivery
Strengthening the capacity of Eligible Local Governments in planning, 
implementation and sustainable service delivery in compliance with mandatory legal 
provisions, through the provision of Local Development Grants for implementation of 
Subprojects for local infrastructure and investment. 
Part C
:
Local Government Capacity Building
Strengthening the capacity of Local Governments to implement the 
decentralization mandate, including enhancing the quality of training and establishment 
of a system to empower the Local Governments in defining their needs, procure and carry 
out training,  through the provision of Capacity Building Grants. 
Part D
:
Local Government Revenue Enhancement
Strengthening the capacity of Local Governments in administration  of their 
sources of revenue, including: (a) supporting MOLG in improvement of the policy and 
legal framework relating to revenue sources and reviewing the structure for  graduated 
tax, property tax and business levies and fees; (b) provision of training to political leaders 
and senior officials at the central and Local Government levels; (c) carrying out of a 
comprehensive study aimed at identifying best practice for local revenue enhancement; 
(d) carrying out of the introduction and improvement of the property tax system, 
Page  27
-
26
-
improvement of local government tax administration system, including: (i) property data 
collection and assessment; (ii) development of a comprehensive property tax 
administration system; and (iii) provision of training  to educate, sensitize and ensure 
compliance with the requirements of the Local Governments (Rating) Act, upon its 
enactment; and (e) monitoring revenues, including: (i) finalization and adjustment of the 
Local Gove
rnments’ financial information and analysis system; and (ii) data collection, 
reporting, verification and analysis, all through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
Part E
:
Project Management and Coordination
Strengthening of PCU’s and MOLG’s capacity in: (a) coordination and  
management of the Project including, 
inter alia
,
support in contract management, 
workshops and seminars; (b) implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
including, monitoring of any performance indicators and impact assessment, and 
workshop for final evaluation of the Project; and (c) audit of the accounts of the Project, 
all through the provision of technical advisory services. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $500,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 500,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
(b) 
Works: (i) for Kampala City Council, estimated to cost more than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; and (ii) for all other Eligible Local Governments, 
estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
Page  29
-
28
-
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works: (a) for Kampala City Council, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; and  (b) for all other Eligible Local Governments, estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  30
-
29
-
(b) 
 Each contract for works: (i) for Kampala City Council, estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and  (ii) for all other Eligible Local Governments, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 50,000 or more, shall be subject to prior review by 
the MOLG following the Borrower’s procurement procedures.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Page  31
-
30
-
Services for training institutions for workshops and training shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial audits and other contracts of a routine nature where well 
established practices and standards exist, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
In exceptional cases, where the overall interests of the client and the Project 
demand, selection of consultants may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Page  32
-
31
-
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as updated from time to time as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants  estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
All single source selection for contracts estimated to cost more than 
$5,000 shall be subject to prior review by the Association. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  33
-
32
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Part A
:
Overall Project Implementation
1. 
The MOLG shall be responsible for execution, coordination and management of 
the Project with the technical support of its PCU. To this end, MOLG shall maintain the 
PCU with staffing, terms of reference and functions satisfactory to the Association. 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
implement the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Plan in form and substance acceptable to the Association giving details of all 
procurement and disbursement arrangements, performance indicators and other 
administrative, financial and organizational arrangements, as shall have been agreed with 
the Association for the purposes of the Project; and  
 
(b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the Project 
Implementation Plan, and, except as the Association may otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion 
of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2003, update the chart of 
accounts for the Project, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association, for the 
purpose of accounting for activities under the Project. 
Part B
:
Terms and Conditions for Financing of Subprojects Under Parts B  and C 
of the Project 
4. 
Pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6 of this Schedule, any  Subproject under 
Part B of the Project shall be: 
 
(a) 
initiated by an Eligible Local Government and  identified as an 
infrastructure investment activity, acceptable to the Association,  under functions of a 
Higher-Level Local Government or a Lower-Level Local Government pursuant to Parts 2 
through 5 of the Second Schedule to the Local Governments Act; 
(b) 
 appraised and carried out in accordance with the procedures and 
conditions set forth in the Project Implementation Plan; 
Page  34
-
33
-
(c) 
economically and technically viable in accordance with the standards 
specified in the Project Implementation Plan; and 
 
(d) 
in compliance with the standards set forth in the applicable laws and 
regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental management. 
5. 
To be eligible for financing to implement a Subprojects under Parts B  and C of 
the Project an Eligible Local Government shall satisfy the eligibility criteria specified in 
the Project Implementation Plan. 
6. Participation 
Agreement
:
For the purposes of Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall conclude an 
agreement (hereinafter called a Participation Agreement) with each Higher Level Local 
Government, whereby the Borrower shall agree to provide to such Higher Level Local 
Government a grant, on a non-reimbursable basis, and on terms and conditions set forth 
in this paragraph 6, including details of disbursement schedules and procurement 
procedures, the amo
unt
of
the Higher Level Local Government’s counterpart 
contribution, details of any further safeguards as may be needed for the management of 
the environment, and the following additional terms and Conditions: 
 
(a) 
require the Higher Level Local Government to carry out any Subproject 
under Parts B and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound technical, financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices, 
and maintain adequate records;  
 
(b) 
obtain all such information as the Association or the Higher Level Local 
Government shall reasonably request relating to the implementation of a Subproject 
under Parts B and C of the Project, and the performance of the Higher Level Local 
Government thereunder; and  
 
(c) 
suspend or terminate the right of an Higher Level Local Government to 
the use of the proceeds of the Financing upon failure by such Higher Level Local 
Government to perform its obligations under the Participation Agreement. 
   
7. 
Proceeds of the Financing allocated under Category (5) in the table set forth 
under paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, shall be disbursed on a quarterly 
basis in three yearly  installments, provided that the Borrower has furnished to the 
Association: 
Page  35
-
34
-
(a)  
for the first year: 
(i) 
certification indicating that there have been no: (A) significant 
reallocations, deviations; or (B) suspension or partial suspension 
of LGDP1 Third Tranche funds as compared to the indicative 
planning figures for the Local Governments; 
(ii) 
a schedule, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
indicating the amounts of Local Development Grants released to 
Eligible Local Governments during the preceding Fiscal Year; 
 
(iii) 
initial cashflow forecasts for Local Development Grants 
based on the results of the annual assessment; 
(iv) 
the Participation Agreements referred to in paragraph 6 of this 
Schedule; 
(v) 
a document outlining the process for creation of new Districts in 
accordance with the Borrower’s laws; and 
(vi) 
an audit strategy for the Lower Local Governments prepared by 
the Borrower’s Auditor  General. 
 
(b)  
for the second year
:
(i) 
a financial performance assessment report with respect to 
expenditures for Local Development Grants, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, carried out by MOLG 
in the preceding Fiscal Year; 
(ii) 
a schedule indicating the funds released by the Borrower to the 
Local Governments through Local Development Grants during 
the previous Fiscal Year, and amounts to be released in the in the 
following Fiscal Year; 
(iii) 
certification indicating that there have been no: (A) significant 
reallocations, deviations; or (B) suspension of Financing in the 
first year, as compared to the indicative planning figures for the 
Local Governments; 
Page  36
-
35
-
(iv) 
Participation Agreements referred to in paragraph 6 of this 
Schedule in respect of any Eligible Local Government 
participating for the first time; 
(v) 
submission of a Local Governments (Rating) Bill, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(vi) 
progress report on implementation of the Institutional Plan, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
(vii) 
progress report on implementation of the audit strategy for the 
Lower-Level Local Governments, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(c)  
for the third year
:
(i) 
a financial performance assessment report with respect to 
expenditures for Local Development Grants, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, carried out by MOLG 
in the preceding Financial Year; 
 (ii) 
a schedule indicating the funds released by the Borrower to the 
Local Governments through Local Development Grants during 
the previous Fiscal Year, and amounts to be released in the 
following Fiscal Year; 
(iii) 
certification indicating that there have been no: (A) significant 
reallocations, deviations; or (B) suspension of Financing in the 
second year as compared to the indicative planning figures for 
the Local Governments;  
(iv) 
Participation Agreements referred to under paragraph 6 of this 
Schedule in respect of any Eligible Local Government 
participating for the first time;  
(v) 
submission of a Local Governments (Rating) Act, referred to in 
paragraph 15 of the Letter of Sector Policy, including, mass 
valuation regulations; and  
Page  37
-
36
-
(vi) 
a report, satisfactory to the Association, on an independent 
procurement review carried out in all the Higher-Level Local 
Governments. 
8. 
Proceeds of the Financing allocated under Category (6) in the table set forth 
under paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, shall be disbursed on a quarterly 
basis in four yearly  installments, provided that the Borrower shall in each year have 
furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
Participation Agreements referred to in paragraph 6 of this Schedule; and 
(b) 
record of accounts, satisfactory to the Association indicating the funds 
released by the Borrower to the Local Governments through the Capacity Building 
Grants during the preceding accounting period. 
Part C:
Environmental and Social Management Framework and Resettlement 
Policy Framework
9. 
The Borrower shall cause Eligible Local Governments: 
 
(a) 
prior to commencing any Subproject and when required under the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework, carry out an environmental impact 
assessment in accordance with the Environmental Checklist, and in a form satisfactory to 
the Association; 
 
(b) 
in the event that an environmental and social impact assessment of a 
Subproject determines that such a Subproject, if carried out, would have in the opinion of 
the Association a  potential for negative environmental impact, not approve such a 
Subproject until an appropriate action has been discussed and agreed upon  by the 
Borrower and the Association to mitigate such potential negative impact; and 
 
(c) 
thereafter cause the relevant Local Government to carry out such agreed 
mitigation plan referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above. 
10. 
Prior to commencement of  a Subproject involving involuntary resettlement or 
involuntary acquisition of land, the Borrower shall cause Eligible Local Governments to 
prepare and implement appropriate resettlement plans for compensation, resettlement and 
rehabilitation, in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, and in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.  
Page  38
-
37
-
Part D:
Monitoring and Reporting
11. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31 of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August 15 and February 15, a bi-annual report, 
which shall cover salient aspects of the Project, including progress in the achievement of 
the objectives of the Project; and 
(d) 
review with the Association, by December 31 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and thereafter act promptly and diligently in order to take, any corrective action 
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the 
Project, or to implement such measures as may have been agreed between the Borrower 
and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
12. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
The Borrower shall not later than February 15, 2005, carry out jointly 
with the Association a midterm review, which shall cover among other things: (i) the 
performance by Local Governments under Parts B and C of the Project; (ii) progress in 
meeting the Project’s objectives; and (iii) overall Project performance as measured 
against the performance indicators referred to in paragraph 11 (a) of this Schedule 4. 
(b) 
 Thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  39
-
38
-
Page  40
-
39
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Monitoring Indicators 
1. 
75% of Local Governments with a three year rolling Development Plan. 
2. 
75% of High Level Local Governments submitted final accounts on time to the 
Office of the Auditor General. 
3. 
35% of Local Governments registering 20% increase in own revenue (taxes, user 
charges and fees) from baseline year 2002/2003. 
 
Page  41
-
40
-
SCHEDULE 6  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions 
generally applicable to development financing granted by the 
Association as a development credit and development grant to its 
members.  They apply to any development financing agreement 
providing for any such development finance to the extent and subject to 
any modifications set forth in such agreement. 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
8.  “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions 
apply, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.  
Development Financing Agreement includes these General Conditions as 
applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Development Financing Agreement 
3. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
15. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement.”; 
16. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association 
on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited.”; 
17. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant. 
18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account 
and the Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the 
Credit Account or the Grant Account). 
Page  42
-
41
-
4. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and Article 
IX. 
5. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”:  Section 2.01(6), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
6. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
7. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts.  
The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing 
Agreement and in these General Conditions.  The amount of the Grant 
shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development 
Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
8. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or development 
grant agreement)” is added to Section 6.02(a)(ii) after the words “any development credit 
agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”, to Section 
6.02(c)(i) after the words “any development credit agreement” and before the words 
“with the Association”, and to Section 7.01(b)(i) after the words “any other development 
credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”:   
9. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the 
several installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after 
the date of such cancellation.” 
 
Page  43
-
42
-
