                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000762




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-37730 IDA-3773A IDA-H0410)




                                 ON A CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.7 MILLION
                        (US$50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 AND A GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 55.0 MILLION
                        (US$75.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                    FOR THE

          SECOND LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                  June 10, 2008




AFT: Water and Urban 1
Eastern Africa Country Cluster 1
AFRICA

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective April 14, 2008)

                                Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings
                                        Ushs. 1.00 = US$0.0006
                                        US$ 1.00 = Ushs. 1689

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                              July - June

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                  LGMSDP  Local Government Management and
CBG       Capacity Building Grant                              Service Delivery Project
CBU       Capacity Building Unit                       LG      Local Government
CRM       Common Result Matrix                         LGSWG   LG Sector Working Group
DDP       District Development Project                 LLG     Lower Local Government
DPSF      Decentralization Policy Strategic            LOGICS  Local Government Information and
          Framework                                            Communications System
DSWG      Decentralization Sector Working Group        LoGSIP  Local Government Sector Investment Plan
EFMP II   Second Economic and Financial                LST     Local Service Tax
          Management Project                           M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
ENR       Environment and Natural Resource             MoFPED  Ministry of Finance, Planning and
FDS       Fiscal Decentralization Strategy                     Economic Development
G Tax     Graduated Tax                                MoLG    Ministry of Local Government
GoU       Government of Uganda                         MTEF    Medium Term Expenditure Framework
HLG       Higher Local Government                      MTR     Mid Term Review
HPPG      Harmonized Participatory Planning Guide      OAG     Office of the Auditor General
ICR       Implementation Completion Report             PAD     Project Appraisal Document
IFMS      Integrated Financial Management System       PCU     Project Co-ordination Unit
JARD      Joint Annual Reviews of Decentralization     PDO     Project Development Objectives
KPI       Key Performance Indicators                   PEAP    Poverty Eradication Action Plan
LDG       Local Development Grant                      PMU     Project Management Unit
LG GAC    LG Governance and Anti-Corruption            PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
LGDP I    Local Government Development Project I       PTC     Programme Technical Committee
LGDP II   Second Local Government Development          QAG     Quality Assurance Committee
          Project                                      UboS    Uganda Bureau of Statistics
LGFC      Local Government Finance Commission          UJAS    Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy
LGFIAS    Local Government Financial Information       UNCDF   United Nations Capital Development Fund
          and Analysis System                          VFM     Value For Money




           Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
        Country Director: John McIntire
         Sector Manager: Jaime M. Biderman
     Project Team Leader: Naa Dei Nikoi

                                                UGANDA
                   Second Local Government Development Project




                                              CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 33
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 35
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 43
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45


MAPS

IBRD 32245 and 33504

A. Basic Information

                                                                   Second Local
Country:                Uganda                Project Name:        Government
                                                                   Development Project
                                                                   IDA-37730, IDA-
Project ID:             P077477               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                   3773A, IDA-H0410
ICR Date:               06/10/2008            ICR Type:            Core ICR
                                                                   GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                   UGANDA
Original Total
                        XDR 91.7M             Disbursed Amount:    XDR 91.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Local Government; Local Governments
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Government of Netherlands - US$15m; Republic of Ireland - US$7.5m; DANIDA - US$1.8m;
Austria Development Corporation - US$0.3m; GoU/LGs - US$14.8m.


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/28/2002    Effectiveness:       10/29/2003        10/29/2003
Appraisal:             03/31/2003    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/29/2003    Mid-term Review:                       06/06/2005
                                     Closing:             06/30/2007        12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:          Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:     Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:           Satisfactory           Performance:         Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                             40                40
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector            20                20
Health                                                            5                 5
Primary education                                                20                20
Roads and highways                                               15                15


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                           Secondary        Secondary
Decentralization                                                Primary          Primary
Municipal finance                                               Primary          Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                   Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli K. Ezekwesili             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         John McIntire                      Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:           Jaime M. Biderman                  Jaime M. Biderman
Project Team Leader:      Naa Dei Nikoi                      Lance Morrell
ICR Team Leader:          Naa Dei Nikoi
                          Martin Onyach-Olaa
ICR Primary Author:
                          Barjor E. Mehta

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve Local Government's institutional performance for sustainable, decentralized service
delivery.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

PDO was never revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised      Achieved at
                                              approval           Target     Completion or
                                             documents)          Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  75% of Higher Local Governments with a three year rolling Development Plan
Value
quantitative or40 HLGs                    56 HLGs                         74 HLGs

Qualitative)   (54%)                      (75%)                          (100%)

Date achieved 06/30/2002                  12/31/2007                     12/31/2007

Comments       Over performed. Target was 76% and achievement was 100% by end of

(incl. %       project. All the HLGs had three year development plans of good quality linked

achievement)   to their respective budgets and the medium term expenditure framework
               (MTEF).

Indicator 2 :  75% of Higher Local Governments submitted final accounts on time to the
               Office of the Auditor General (OAG)
Value
quantitative or25 HLGs                    56 HLGs                         74 HLG

Qualitative)   (34%)                      (75%)                          (100%)

Date achieved 06/30/2002                  12/31/2007                     12/31/2007
Comments       Over performed. Target was 76% and achievement was 100%. All HLGs by
(incl. %       end of project were able to submit their final accounts to OAG within the
achievement)   statutory 3 months after close of the financial year.

Indicator 3 :  35% of Higher Local Governments registering 20% increase in own revenue
               (taxes, user charges and fees)
Value
quantitative or14 HLGs                    26 HLGs                         12 HLGs

Qualitative)   (19%)                      (35%)                          (16%)

Date achieved 06/30/2002                  12/31/2007                     12/31/2007
               Target met in the first three years of the project (revenue increases of 53%;
               36%; and 49% for FY02/03; FY03/04 and FY040/5 respectively) but dropped
Comments       in the last 2 years to 34% and 16% respectively due to the abolition of the
(incl. %       Graduated tax.      However government compensated LGs through direct
achievement)   transfers of Ushs. 25 billion and Ushs. 45 billion in FY05/06 and FY06/07
               respectively and approved new tax measures (local Service Tax and Hotel Tax)
               to replace the Graduated Tax.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target    Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                     Achieved at
                                             approval         Revised      Completion or
                                            documents)     Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :  95% of Higher Local Governments receiving a reward in planning
Value
(quantitative  68% HLGs                  95% HLGs                        98%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                 12/31/2007                     12/31/2007
               Over performed.    Target was 95% but actual was 98% of HLG received
Comments       rewards in the FY2006/7 in planning by having the plan aligned with the
(incl. %       national PRSP, has incorporated all crossing cutting issues (gender,
achievement)   HIV/AIDS, environment etc), made adequate provisions for O&M and
               reflected community needs.
Indicator 2 :  80% of Lower Local Governments receiving a reward in planning
Value
(quantitative  71% LLGs                  80% LLGs                        84%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                 12/31/2007                     12/31/2007
Comments       Over performed. 84% (770 out of total of 974) of the LLGs received reward for
(incl. %       the good quality of their development plans. Only 13% (121 LLG) were static
achievement)   and only 3% (30 LLG) were penalized.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                        IP              Disbursements
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1     07/10/2003         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/17/2003         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   22.46
  3     05/26/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   22.99
  4     11/24/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   44.99
  5     04/18/2005         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   67.65
  6     08/15/2005         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   80.35
  7     01/31/2006         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  103.24
  8     11/16/2006         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  121.31
  9     06/13/2007         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  130.03
  10    11/30/2007         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  135.21



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.1.1    Country Context - Uganda's government strategy for economic transformation is spelled
out in its Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP), a medium-term development plan that guides
government policy and provides a framework for detailed sector and Local Governments (LGs)
planning. The PEAP was first drafted in 1997, revised in March/April 2000 and the summary
presented to the Boards of the Bank and the International Monetary Fund in May 2000 as
Uganda's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The third PEAP (2004-2007) focused on
four key pillars: (i) creating an enabling environment for economic growth and structural
transformation; (ii) ensuring good governance and security; including improvement in public
service delivery and decentralization; (iii) directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their
incomes; and (iv) improving the quality of life of the poor. One element of the poverty reduction
strategy which needed additional support was the cross sector support to decentralization, a
cornerstone of Uganda's government policy which is mandated by the Constitution and
elaborated in the Local Governments (LGs) Act. To support the PEAP, the development partners
have jointly developed the Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS) to harmonize the program of
donor support linked to the third PEAP. The Second Local Government Development Project
(LGDP II) was therefore, designed and implemented within the broader context of the PEAP and
UJAS.

1.1.2    Sector background - LG reforms started in 1992 with the decentralization policy
pronouncement. This was followed by Constitutional (1995), legal (1997) and regulatory (1998)
reforms to operationalize the decentralization policy. Following the policy pronouncement,
DANIDA provided support to the Decentralization Secretariat which was responsible for drafting
the LG Act (1997) and associated regulations. The Bank's first involvement in the LG sector in
Uganda was in 1995 when it piloted, using a PHRD grant, a community demand-driven service
delivery approach in peri-urban areas of four municipalities. In 1997, UNCDF provided a grant
of US$14.5 million to government to pilot, in four districts, the constitutional and legal provisions
on decentralization. In 2000, the Bank, building on the experiences of the two pilots (urban and
rural) approved the Local Government Development Project I (LGDP I), a credit of US$65
million to, amongst other areas, test the legal provisions with respect to decentralized service
provision and devolution of the development budget; build capacity of the Ministry of Local
Government (MoLG), the Local Government Finance Commission (LGFC) and LGs; and
monitor and evaluate experiences for eventual scale up. At that time, the sector was characterized
by a weak MoLG, low managerial and technical capacities within LGs and a weak private sector
which resulted in a lack of confidence/trust from line ministries and development partners to
decentralize. The legal provisions were also new and had never been tested. Despite these
challenges, from the onset, MoLG and the LGs were made the responsible institutions for the
implementation of the project. This was done with the specific objective to build their capacities
through experiential learning by doing. In February 2002, during the mid term review (MTR) of
LGDP I, it was found that LGs still lacked the capacity to adequately respond to and benefit from
the PRSC modality. It was therefore agreed that a follow-on effort of LGDP II should provide
the bridge between LGDP I and the decentralization PRSC envisioned in the next CAS cycle.
This would allow the government to maintain the momentum of reforms and institutional
building carried under LGDP I. LGDPII was therefore designed to consolidate the achievements
made under LGDP I (implemented from 2000 to 2003). LGDP II was appraised in April 2003;
approved in June 2003; and became effective in October 2003. It was processed within the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, document number 20886) for the period FY2001 to 2003. It



                                                  1

was a program of reform which was consistent with the Bank's CAS, Uganda's PRSP agenda and
the agreed upon UJAS principles by the development partners.

1.1.3   Rationale for Bank support - The Bank has had the comparative advantage to support
government in the implementation of the decentralization reform process. The Bank's serious
engagement in the sector started with LGDP I and considering the long gestation period required
to mainstream decentralization, there was a need to have a follow-on operation to consolidate the
achievements made under the first operation. In addition, LGDPII was complementary to the
Bank funded PRSC2 and 3 and was contributing to the achievement of the PEAP objectives.
Following the successful piloting of the fiscal decentralization approach under LGDP I, in 2001
the government undertook a Fiscal Decentralization Strategy (FDS) through which they made a
strategic choice to mainstream the LGDP I approach. By LGDP I MTR, the approach had gained
popularity and was increasingly supported by other development partners. LGDP II design and
implementation was informed by the LGDP I MTR recommendations and the ICR findings and
lessons learned. LGDP II was therefore designed as an instrument to mobilize broad grant
support to implement decentralization reform with a possible strong demonstration effect for the
future in terms of development partner coordination and harmonization. The Bank, therefore, had
a key and strategic role to continue providing support to government to achieve this goal. With
the introduction of IDA grants in September 2002, LGDP II was selected for grant financing,
inter alia, because of: (i) its complementary character in the World Bank's Uganda program in
addressing poverty reduction with PRSC; (ii) the innovative approach to collaboration between
development partners in supporting the decentralization process which is central to Uganda's
development challenges; and (iii) the government's commitment to reducing the debt burden and
the unfair burden this commitment had placed on the implementation of the PEAP and
decentralization reform.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project development objective was to improve local government's institutional performance
for sustainable and decentralized service delivery.

The Key Indicators were: (i) 75 percent of Local Governments (LGs) with a three year rolling
development plan; (ii) 75 percent of Higher Local Governments (HLGs) submitted final accounts
on time to the Office of the Auditor General; and (iii) 35 percent of LGs registering 20 percent
increase in their own revenue (taxes, user charges and fees) from the baseline year 2002/03.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO was never revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The primary target groups of the project were the local governments and their institutions and
constituencies, as well as private contractors for implementation of the substantial parts of the
local government program.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project had five components with a total cost of US$165 million (IDA - US$125 million of
which US$50 million was Credit and US$75 was Grant; Denmark - US$2.4 million; Austria -
0.30 million; Ireland - US$7.5 million; Netherlands - US$15 million and GoU/LGs - US$14.8
million).




                                                 2

1.5.1    Component 1 - Support for the Decentralization Process - This component supported
eight sub-activities namely: (i) support to the fiscal decentralization strategy (FDS)
implementation and tools to support decentralization of the development budget; (ii) support to
institutional structure surrounding decentralization; (iii) support to sector issues related to
decentralization, (iv) formulating and implementing a national LG capacity building strategy;
(v) strengthening LG human resource development function, (vi) audit of the accounts of lower
local governments (LLGs); (vii) support the harmonization of procurement regulations and
practices of the LGs with those of the central government; and (viii) improve financial
management in those LGs which are not covered by the integrated financial management system
(IFMS) (See PAD Annex 2 pages 32-34).

1.5.2    Component 2 - Local Development Grant (LDG) - This component comprised a non-
sectoral conditional grant (the Local Development Grant - LDG) distributed on a formula basis to
all local authorities in Uganda for investment in local infrastructure in accordance with local
needs as determined through local planning and budgeting processes.             Although all local
authorities were eligible to receive the LDG funding, actual access was determined by capacity,
accountability, and performance conditionalities which were designed to incentivise
improvements in sustainable service delivery at the local level. The LDG IDA grant covered
three years FY03/04 - FY05/06 (See PAD Annex 2 pages 34 - 36).

1.5.3    Component 3 - Local Government Capacity Building - This component provided a
capacity building grant to LGs aimed at increasing the quality of training and to help establish a
national system of standardized training modules recognized by all stakeholders.                  The
development of standardized training courses and the elaboration of a short-list of qualified
national training providers were coordinated by the LG Capacity Building Unit and the Specific
Technical Working Group on standardized training. The grant was restricted to non-sector,
generic training and skills development for all levels of LGs (See PAD Annex 2 page 36).

1.5.4    Component 4 - Local Government Revenue Enhancement - This component provided
support to enhance the capacity of LGs to administer their own sources of revenue in order to
achieve and sustain acceptable levels of service delivery. It had five sub-components namely:
(1) strengthening local revenue policies and legislation which covered three activities: (i) the
review of the graduated tax (GT) policies and legislations; (ii) technical work on property tax to
inform the property tax legislation and regulation; and (iii) business levies and fees; (2) training
of politicians and officials - to sensitize and educate political leaders and senior officials at both
central and LG level on the important role of and need for local taxation to achieve more
accountable and sustainable local government; (3) strengthening local revenue systems - support
nationwide efforts in the area of local revenue administration by conducting an comprehensive
study to identify local revenue enhancement (LRE) "best practices" in Uganda and develop a set
of manuals focusing on improvements to local revenue administration for implementation by LGs
nationally; (4) extension of property tax system - to specific LGs to improve their property tax
administrations systems by assisting them in (i) property data collection and assessment;
(ii) developing a comprehensive property tax administration system; and (iii) training the LG staff
on the new property tax law and regulations; and (5) monitoring local government revenue - to
track the progress on the revenue enhancement effort by (i) upgrading Local Government
Financial Information and Analysis System (LGFIAS); (ii) training LGs officials on data
collection and reporting on revenues and expenditures; and (iii) verification and analysis of
revenue data (See PAD Annex 2 pages 36 - 38).




                                                  3

1.5.5   Component 5 - Support to Project Implementation - This component supported the
overall coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation and auditing of the project. It
also supported the mentoring and backstopping functions in key activities such as national
assessment of LGs and review and control of the grants (both the LDG and CBG) transfers to
LGs (See PAD Annex 2 page 38).

1.6 Revised Components
The project components were not revised nor the objective changed.

1.7 Other significant changes
The Development Financing Agreement (DFA) was amended three times for the following
reasons:

        Transfer the project special accounts from Commercial Bank to the Central Bank
        following government policy decision to transfer all donor funded project accounts to
        Bank of Uganda (April 20, 2005).

        Cater for the severance payments from the project to all eligible LGs staffs that were
        retrenched as a result of the LG restructuring (June 7, 2005). A total of 5,821 LGs staff
        were retrenched (10% of the total established posts of 560,000 staff) and paid severance
        packages totaling around US$10 million.

        Extend the closing date of the project from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007 to
        allow for the disbursement of the LDG for the fourth year (April 9, 2007).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project was not assessed by QAG for quality at entry.

ICR rating for quality at entry: Satisfactory. Conceptualization and formulation of LGDP II
commenced as early as the mid term review of LGDP I with active participation from the
Ministry of Local Government (MoLG), participating Local Governments (LGs), select line
Ministries and interested Development Partners. These provided opportunities to the Bank team
together with MoLG to listen, incorporate lessons learned, and design enough flexibility in the
project framework to respond to unforeseen events. Flexibility was required and necessary
because the decentralization process was still unfolding in Uganda. Development partners, who
until then had supported their own area-based programs and projects, recognized the strengths of
a unified system of support towards decentralization and decided to co-fund LGDP II.

2.2 Implementation
ICR Rating: Satisfactory.       Project implementation was facilitated by a tested project
implementation unit which was fairly well integrated with the MoLG. Implementation issues
were resolved with active collaboration between the PCU, MoLG, Development Partners and the
Bank's supervision team. However, government policy shifts during the project period offered
three substantial challenges:

        Government established new local governments: LGDP II was designed to work with 56
        local governments. In 2005-2006, the government established 24 new local governments
        which offered substantial challenges to the Local Development Grant and Capacity
        Building Grant transfer mechanisms.       The new LGs began in a highly capacity-




                                                4

         constrained environment and required substantially higher amounts of mentoring, hand
         holding and overall support.

         Graduated Tax (G Tax) was abolished: The Revenue Enhancement Component was
         impacted when government decided to abolish the G Tax and compensate LGs through
         transfers from Treasury. In the first year, government compensated LGs with Ushs. 25
         billion which was far short of what LGs earned through G Tax. The project team had to
         convince the PRSC6 to include a cross-conditionality to fully compensate LGs. In 2006-
         2007, the government fully compensated LGs with Ushs. 45 billion.

         Owner-occupied houses were exempted from paying Rates: In FY2005/6 government
         exempted owner-occupied residential buildings from paying property rates but retained
         rates on industrial, commercial and rented residential houses. Residential properties
         make up a majority of rate payers. The project team had to modify an activity and
         redirect it to identify alternative taxes and assist in the formulation of a new Local
         Government (Rating) Act 2005 and the regulations (2006), which when operational will
         allow LGs to collect new taxes.

However, because of the flexibility of the project design, a number of measures were taken to
address the revenue challenges faced by LGs namely: (i) under PRSC government compensated
LGs for loss of revenue from G tax for two fiscal years (Ushs. 25 billion compensated in
FY2005/6 and Ushs. 45 billion in FY2006/7); (ii) new tax measures - Local Service Tax and
Hotel Tax- were identified and are expected to yield Ushs. 75 billion per annum. The Bill
introducing the new taxes has been approved by Parliament; (iii) the project provided seed capital
of Ushs. 1.23 billion to 106 LGs (10 municipalities, 42 towns and 54 districts) to improve their
revenue collection efficiency from existing sources. This support has resulted in a revenue
increase from Ushs. 67.86 billion in FY2004/05 to Ushs. 75.23 billion by FY2006/07. The
revenue of these 106 LGs from existing sources is projected to increase to Ushs. 105.62 billion by
FY2007/8 representing a 55.6% increase over the last four years; and (iv) 158 LGs (13
municipalities, 85 towns, and 60 districts) have been assisted with Ushs. 3.8 billion to update
their valuation rolls. Work has been completed on 72 LGs (10 municipalities, 40 towns and 10
districts). The updated valuation lists from these 72 LGs has resulted in the identification of
ratable properties worth Ushs. 93.7 billion with minimum revenue from rates estimated at Ushs.
5.21 billion per annum for the next five years when new valuation is redone. Although owner
occupied houses were exempted from paying rates, the LG (Rating) Act extended the coverage
for payment of rates on commercial and industrial properties to the rural LGs which hitherto were
only limited to urban LGs. In terms of rates coverage the new law was an improvement over the
original law. Through these measures the project adequately and effectively responded to the
government policy changes and supported MoLG and MoFPED on local revenue issues
consistent with the original project objective.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. LGDP II has enabled MoLG to establish and mainstream effective
M&E systems through three mechanisms:

a. Establishment of LOGICS and LOGICS Plus: Prior to LGDP II, LG reporting did not use
    standardized formats.      Inspectors from MoLG also did not use standardized reporting
    protocols, and therefore, it was not possible to consolidate, compare and analyze LG
    information. LGDP II assisted in the upgrading, roll out and implementation of the Local
    Government Information and Communications System (LOGICS) which had been designed
    and piloted during LGDP I. Subsequently, LGDP II also assisted in the development,
    integration and piloting of a financial information module which allows LGs to report on


                                                 5

   expenditures and revenues. The expanded system is called LOGICS Plus and will be rolled
   out during the following Local Government Management and Service Delivery Project
   (LGMSDP) to all HLGs.

b. Local Government Performance Assessment: LGDP II facilitated the establishment of an
  annual assessment of LGs to ensure compliance with GoU laws and regulations as well as
  assess performance in financial management, procurement, planning, capacity building and
  sub-project implementation in terms of quality of workmanship, usage of the facility and
  O&M.      The assessment is done by a team consisting of officials from MoLG, sector
  ministries and a private contractor for quality assurance. The team covers all 93 Higher
  Level LGs and 40 percent of the lower local governments, town councils and sub-counties.
  The annual performance assessment is the basis for imposition of sanctions for non-
  compliance and incentives for good performance.           The annual assessment was initially
  conducted with the help from the PCU, but by FY2005/6, MoLG's Inspectorate Department
  had assumed full responsibility. The assessment has been improved overtime to include
  sector indicators to assess functionality of education, health, water and sanitation, works,
  production, environment and natural resources departments thereby enhancing a holistic
  approach to LG performance including the cross cutting issues. Assessment documentation
  and reporting formats have been computerized which allows the assessment to become a line
  function for MoLG Inspectors and enables them to provide inputs during regular inspections.
  Large assessment teams may now not be required to physically travel to each LG.

c. Value for money (VFM) audit: The LGDP II assisted the MoLG to conduct VFM audit, on a
   sample of 1,083 subprojects out of the total of 8,204 subprojects (13.2% sample). The audit
   shows that 60% of the sampled sub-projects had best/good VFM. 31% had fair VFM and
   only 9% had poor VFM. The audit concluded that those projects which had fair/poor VFM
   exhibited weakness either in their planning, procurement, supervision, documentation, and/or
   handover/commissioning resulting, in some cases, in significant costs over-runs and/or
   defects. These findings have provided valuable feedback for further strengthening of policy
   reforms and support to LGs to enhance their capacity to provide quality services to the
   population.   The VFM audit looked at the interrelation of three variables, "economy",
   "efficiency" and "effectiveness" defined as follows:

   (i)   "Economy" - minimizing the cost of resources used for an activity, with due regard for
         appropriate quality. Assessed in terms of deviations between budgeted cost, contract
         price; actual cost or market cost and defect cost and rated as: Best (3); Good (2); Fair
         (1); or Poor (0).

   (ii)  "Efficiency" - is concerned with the investment processes and has been defined in five
         stages: planning and approval process; procurement process; implementation process;
         financial management; and commissioning /handover process. Efficient execution of a
         sub-project ("efficiency") is rated as: Best (3); Good (2); Fair (1); or Poor (0).

   (iii) "Effectiveness" - the extent to which objectives have been achieved and the
         relationship between the intended impact and the actual impact of an activity. It
         includes: quality of finished activity/investment product (adherence to standards;
         quality of material; quality of workmanship); utilization of finished investment;
         operation and maintenance considerations (Budget allocation; O&M plan; O&M
         implemented).      The extent to which the investments meet their objectives,
         (effectiveness) and the outcome is rated as Best: (3); Good (2); Fair (1); or Poor (0).




                                                 6

    Additionally, towards the end of the project, a survey to assess Beneficiary Participation and
    Accountability under LGDP II was conducted to provide feedback and inform the proposed
    LGMSD Project (See Annex 5).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards (environment): Moderately Satisfactory.         LGs have been following adequate
environmental screening during sub-project preparation. However, they do not make adequate
provisions    for  implementing    environmental    mitigation    measures   during    sub-project
implementation.    MoLG guidelines now require LGs to include funding for environmental
mitigation measures in implementation contracts.

Fiduciary Compliance: Highly Satisfactory. Project funds have been transferred regularly to
LGs without any diversions. Procurement requirements have been complied with. In both
instances, Country Office teams have provided substantial support.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The strongest indicator of LGDP II sustainability is the fact that GOU started mainstreaming the
transfer of the Local Development Grant (LDG) and the Capacity Building Grant (CBG) to LGs
through the national budget in 2006-07 and will now continue to do so. These grants now form
part of the national budget and have been provided for in the Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF).

A Decentralization Policy Strategic Framework (DPSF) and a Local Government Sector
Investment Plan 2006-2016 (LoGSIP) have been put in place.           These provide a clear and
comprehensive guide map with a common results matrix (CRM) for all actions and investments
in the LG sector. Development Partners have provided Euro 40 million in the national budget to
support implementation of LoGSIP over the next three years where the sector is required to
prepare consolidated work plan and budget encompassing all resources (Government,
development partners / World Bank) to achieve outcomes consistent with the CRM.

LGMSDP, which is a successor initiative to LGDP II, was approved by the Bank's Board and is
awaiting clearance from Parliament.        The new project will deepen decentralization by
concentrating on further professionalizing LG cadres, strengthening public financial management
reform at LG levels, and bring them in line with national systems and strengthen the interface
between LGs and their resident communities.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project objectives are relevant and consistent with the current Uganda Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). They are relevant to the government's Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP)
and the Bank/Development Partners' Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Achievement of PDO is rated Satisfactory. The achievements by each component of the project
are summarized below.

3.2.1   Component 1: Support to the Overall Decentralization Process (PAD US$23.80
million; ICR US$33.6 million) - Satisfactory. This component had eight activities and all were
satisfactorily implemented.



                                               7

Activity 1: Support to the Fiscal Decentralization Strategy (FDS) Implementation and Tools to
 Support Decentralization of the Development Budget: Satisfactory. Prior to LGDP II, most
 government line ministries as well as Development Partners were skeptical of the ability of
 LGs to effectively utilize and account for discretionary grants. This had led to a situation
 where LGs only received sectoral conditional grants. Financial management systems, protocols
 as well as M&E systems designed and rolled out under LGDP II provided and increasingly
 elevated the confidence of central government and its line ministries for increased transfer of
 discretionary grants to LGs. During LGDP II, the FDS became operational and has enabled
 LGs to become more responsive to locally defined community priorities and make decisions
 which are recognized by their residents as effective investments for local economic
 development.        Tools such as the participatory planning guidelines, strengthening of
 procurement arrangements at the LG level and the roll out of LOGICS were directly
 responsible for enhanced accountability and confidence in LGs.

Activity 2: Institutional Structures Surrounding Decentralization: Satisfactory. LGDP II assisted
 in the development of the National LG Assessment process, including an Assessment Manual
 in the actual conduct of assessments to provide feedback to MoLG on progress and allowing
 LGs to benchmark themselves against each other. This required substantial mentoring to
 ensure the orientation of the assessment teams. Towards the end of LGDP II, the national
 assessment of LGs has been mainstreamed as a regular function of MoLG's Inspectorate
 Department. Financial support was provided to restructure LGs because under LGDP I, it was
 realized that most local governments were not appropriately staffed and therefore could not
 effectively respond to their new mandate. Therefore, LGDP II included financial support
 (USD10 million) which allowed provision of compensation to 5,821 LG staff who were
 retrenched by mutual consent. This large scale restructuring was done with active support of
 multiple agencies and representatives of LG staff. The retrenchment exercise was effectively
 conducted. It was transparent, all those retrenched were fully paid their agreed packages
 including the provision of counseling services, entrepreneurship skills training to allow them to
 invest wisely, and support to mitigate any social and economic impact on the staff separated
 from the LGs. Government has now recruited appropriately qualified staff and has filled about
 65% of the core positions in LGs. The MoLG was restructured to include a strengthened
 Inspectorate Department, all LGs were assessed annually, LOGICS was rolled out and the
 Capacity Building Unit of MoLG became fully operational.

Activity 3: Sector Issues Related to Decentralization: Satisfactory. Lack of physical planning
 within LGs was identified as a major constraint to the growth of the settlements and the local
 economy. To avoid conflicting land uses and to provide indications for networks such as roads,
 water supply and drainage, LGDP II assisted in the drafting of the principles of the Physical
 Planning Bill and guidelines to operationalize the Bill. Based on the Bill, LGDP II financed the
 formulation of physical development plans in 93 LGs.

Activity 4: Strategic Framework - National Strategy and Institutional Set-up: Satisfactory. In
 light of the new LG mandates and to guide the process of LG capacity building, a LG Capacity
 Building Policy Committee chaired by MoLG was established. The Committee guided the
 formulation of the National LG Capacity Building Strategy which was approved for
 implementation by the Cabinet and launched in 2006. MoLG also established an in-house
 Capacity Building Unit (CBU) which provided substantial support to all LGs in the formulation
 of their own Capacity Building Needs Assessments and Capacity Building Plans. A unique
 feature of the capacity building effort under LGDP II is the emergence of an active LG capacity
 building "market." Private as well as public sector training providers now compete to win
 training contracts from LGs, who demand training based on their internally identified needs. In




                                                 8

  response, an Association of National Service Providers has emerged which now deals with
  quality control, training of trainers and identifies new areas for training.

Activity 5: Strengthen LG Human Resource Development Function: Satisfactory. LGs now have
  their own Human Resources personnel with adequate training. This allows LGs to proactively
  plan, budget and manage appropriate skill mixes based on local demands.

Activity 6: Audit of the Accounts of Lower Local Governments (LC IIIs): Satisfactory. Prior to
  LGDP II, audits for accounts of LLGs were not conducted. LGDP II funded the first ever
  audits of LLGs and worked with the Auditor Generals Office to facilitate the development of an
  Audit Strategy for LLGs. The strategy is now in place and audits for LLGs have been
  mainstreamed in the Auditor General's office which is responsible for audits on a regular basis.

Activity 7: Procurement Capacity Building at the Higher Local Governments (HLGs):
  Satisfactory. LGDP II enabled the development of the Local Government Procurement and
  Assets Disposal Regulations 2006 which now addresses all procurement related issues under
  the umbrella of the Public Procurement Act. LGDP II provided hands-on support to LGs on
  post-procurement reviews followed by active mentoring. LGs have now inducted their own
  procurement staff.

Activity 8: Local Financial Management: Satisfactory.             A study reviewed the financial
  management strategy for the local government sector and identified ways in which the
  Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) could be rolled out to select local
  governments. Additionally, the study also highlighted actions needed for "Second Tier" local
  governments where a full-fledged IFMS would not be installed and "Third Tier" local
  governments would receive simple spreadsheet-based financial management systems.

3.2.2   Component 2: Local Development Grant (PAD US$107.50 million, ICR US$118.8
million) - Highly Satisfactory. The Local Development Grant (LDG) has been fully disbursed.
The use of the grants by LGs was aligned with broader expectations of the national PRSP [the
Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP)]. On average, out of the total LDG received by the LGs,
they chose to invest: 19% in Education, 13% in Health, 10% in water and sanitation, 39% in
roads, 15% in agriculture extension, 2% in the construction of public administration buildings;
and 1% in solid waste management. The VFM audit conducted in December 2007 which was
based on a sample of 1,255 sub-projects funded by LDG showed that 60 percent of the sampled
project had best/good value for money in terms of efficiency of implementation; effectiveness
(use of the sub-projects) and economy (quality and within budget). 31% had fair VFM with only
9% having poor or no value for money. A Community Beneficiaries Assessment based on a
sample of 1,500 households from 150 communities indicated that on average 63% of the
households were satisfied with LGDP II service delivery modality, although the level of
satisfaction varied between sectors. Education had the highest level of satisfaction (69%) while
road infrastructure had the lowest (54%).          In addition to the above high implementation
achievement, government has fully mainstreamed the LDG by including this transfer in the
normal budget and medium term expenditure framework (MTEF). Since LDGP2 provided for
the LGD for only three years, from FY2006/7 GoU has fully funded the LDG using its own
resources and will now continue to fund the LDG to the tune of about US$40 million annually.
The decision by government to make the LDG an integral part of the national budget ensures the
sustainability of the LDG.

3.2.3   Component 3: Capacity Building Grants (PAD US$15.00 million, ICR 14.66 million)
- Highly Satisfactory. District and Municipal level LGs received an annual Capacity Building
Grant (CBG) if they prepared a Capacity Building Plan and could demonstrate that the previous
year's grant had been effectively utilized in terms of financing only those activities which were


                                                   9

contained in the approved plan and ensuring that all levels of LGs are beneficiaries. Up to 20%
of the grant could be used to fund the career development of LG staff, 15% could be spent on
discretionary training while the rest had to be spent on procuring training from a menu of 29
modules developed by the MoLG.          In addition to the "training", LGDPII also supported
mentoring of LG staff by qualified and experienced peers who were organized under District and
Municipal Resource Pools.

All higher level LGs have prepared three year rolling Capacity Building Plans and procured
training for a total of 260,089 technical staff, councilors, civil society organizations and the
private sector through 3,460 training events (an average of US$58 per participant and US$4,335
per training event).     Training coupled with mentoring has had positive impacts on LG
performance. In 2006, 81% and 78% of the districts and municipalities respectively met the
minimum conditions (in terms of: a good quality plan, financial management as per statutory
requirements, compliance with public procurement laws, and ability to provide 10% co-funding
from own source revenue) rising from 59% and 69% for districts and municipalities in 2003.
Funds for career development of LG staff have resulted in the building up of a critical mass of
accounting staff in LGs.       In 2003 there were no professional accountants with ACCA
qualification in LGs and only three qualified accounts technicians. By December 2007, there
were forty one (41) professional accountants with ACCA qualification and 391 qualified accounts
technicians in LGs. A similar critical mass of professional staff is being trained for human
resource management positions and procurement in the LGs.

An indirect impact of LGDPII is the emergence of training institutions catering to LG capacity
building. The Capacity Building Unit (CBU) of the MoLG competitively establishes a list of
"qualified" training service providers (public as well as private) and based on their own Capacity
Building Plan, LGs use the CBG to competitively procure training from the providers. In
addition to providing training, such providers now constitute a national pool of consultants with
the skills and knowledge required by the local government sector as a whole.

The LGDP II capacity building best practices have been documented by the World Bank Institute
(WBI) in a Capacity Development Brief (No. 22 of June 2007). The approach pioneered under
LGDP II where project and development partner resources are used to create incentives aimed at
improving the performance of LGs through rewards and sanctions which stimulate both supply
and demand for capacity development at the local level are now used widely in many countries.

3.2.4    Component 4: Local Government Revenue Enhancement (PAD US$11.90 million;
ICR US$8.15 million) - Moderately Satisfactory. The component strengthened local revenue
policies, legislation, and systems, trained LGs officials in revenue mobilization, extended
property rates systems to cover all LGs (both rural and urban) country wide, and developed a
national LG revenue monitoring system. Over the first three years of LGDP II, this component
was on track to meet its objective. However, progress was adversely affected in FY2005/6 when
government announced the abolition of two major sources of revenue for LGs (G Tax and Rates
by owner-occupiers).     To address the negative impact of this policy decision, government
instituted four measures: (i) compensated LGs through direct transfers from treasury;
(ii) provided seed capital to LGs to improve the collection efficiency from the remaining own-
sources; (iii) assisted LGs to prepare and/or up-date property valuation rolls; and (iv) identified
(and which have now been legislated) two new sources of own-source revenue for LGs - local
service tax (LST) and hotel tax.




                                                10

Activity 1: Strengthening Local Revenue Policies and Legislation - Satisfactory.        LGDP II
 approached this activity in three parts:

 (i)    During appraisal a review of the Graduated Tax (G Tax) legislation and policies was
        envisaged. Since, GoU decided to abolish the G Tax, the project team re-oriented its
        focus to identify alternative sources of revenue. A project financed study identified a
        Local Service Tax and a Hotels Tax. A Bill to operationalize these new taxes has been
        approved by Parliament.

 (ii)   Technical work in the area of property tax included assistance in the preparation of the
        Local Government (Rating) Bill 2006 and the Local Government (Rating) Regulations
        2006; Property rating Handbook (2007); and Property rating Training Manual (2007) and
        trained 105 urban councils (13 municipalities and 92 towns). LGDP II also assisted 158
        LGs (13 municipalities, 85 towns and 60 districts) to update and prepare valuation lists.
        By December 2007, 24 LGs had approved valuation rolls and could start collecting
        revenue from this source. Another 14 LGs will have their valuation rolls approved by the
        Minister of LG this financial year and will be able to collect property tax by FY2008-09.
        The project revenue from these measures is Ushs. 5.21 billion per annum for the next five
        years.   However, issues of property tax revenue became a critical issue when in
        FY2005/6 GoU decided to exempt owner-occupied residential buildings from paying
        property tax resulting in a loss of Ushs. 4.5 billion for urban councils (Kampala City
        Council (KCC) about Ushs. 3 billion and other Urban LGs about Ushs. 1.5 billion).

 (iii) Business Levies and Fees were considered as being of critical importance to facilitate
        new business development and encourage local economic development.              A single
        business permit was designed and piloted in Entebbe Municipality (where the business
        levies went up by 30%) and was rolled out to Mukono, Lira and Torroro LGs with a
        further roll out in 10 additional LGs. These systems include business registers, billing,
        and tax education interactions with the local business communities. As a result of the roll
        out, revenue from business levies from these 14 urban LGs increased from a total of Ushs.
        814.8 million in FY2004/05 to Ushs. 1,484.4 million in FY2006/7 representing a 82%
        increase over the last three years. There is a high level of compliance from businesses in
        terms of timely payments of the single business permit.

Activity 2: Training of Politicians and Officials -- Moderately Satisfactory. Due to the nature of
 electoral cycles at the national and LG levels, LGDP II concentrated on the training of officials.
 Training materials were developed and 35 trainers were trained who, in turn, trained 732
 officials at the District and Town Council levels. A mismatch between the LGDP II project
 period and LG electoral cycles has resulted in a lag of training of politicians.

Activity 3: Strengthening Local Revenue Systems - Satisfactory. In 2003, the United Nations
 Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) had commissioned a study to document LG revenue
 collection methods which had worked well in Uganda. LGDP II financed the dissemination of
 the documentation derived from the study and allowed the mentoring of LG revenue collection
 officials in the application of methods that had worked in other LGs. In addition, LGDP II
 provided "seed capital" of Ushs. 1.23 billion to 106 LGs (10 municipalities, 42 towns and 54
 districts) to enable them to implement the Local Government Revenue Enhancement Plans.
 This support increased revenue from existing sources from Ushs. 67.86 billion in FY2004/5 to
 Ushs. 75.23 billion in FY2006/7 representing a 11% increase. Revenue from these sources are
 projected to increase to Ushs. 105.23 billion in FY2007/8.




                                                11

Activity 4: Extension of the Property Tax System - Satisfactory. LGDP II assisted property data
  collection and assessment in 13 municipalities, 85 town councils and 60 districts which has
  allowed them to prepare their valuation rolls. The project assisted the MoLG in drafting of the
  new LG Rating Regulations and in strengthening the Property Rates Valuation Courts at each
  LG to enable residents to appeal rates demands from LGs.

Activity 5: Monitoring Local Government Revenues - Satisfactory. LGDP II provided technical
  assistance in the development of a Local Government Financial Information and Analysis
  System (LGFIAS). This was done by rationalizing multiple systems to create a unified system
  of revenue and expenditure information. After testing and upgrading, LGFIAS was merged
  with LOGICS to create LOGICS Plus.

3.2.5    Component 5: Support to Project Management and Coordination (PAD
US$6.80million, ICR US$6.52 million) - Highly Satisfactory. The component provided support
in the overall coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation as well as to enable the
PCU to provide mentoring and backstopping functions in key support activities to the hitherto
weak, understaffed and under resourced MoLG. This component had three main activities:
(i) support to project management; (ii) monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) project audit.

Activity 1 - Support to project management: Under LGDP I, the project was managed by PMU
  because of the weak capacity of MoLG. However under LGDP II, deliberate efforts were made
  to use the project to strength the capacity of the MoLG by mainstreaming the project activities
  into the ministry function. The PMU was then transformed into a PCU which became a
  coordinating, mentoring and backstopping unit for the MoLG. Project component management
  including annual LGs assessments, were transferred to the ministry heads of departments. To
  date the ministry is fully in charge of the various activities which were started by the project
  and are continuing as routine functions.

Activity 2 - Monitoring and Evaluation: This activity was responsible for monitoring the project
  KPI, conducting value for money (VFM) audit, conducting transfer tracking studies to ensure
  that money are reaching the intended beneficiary LGs, and conducting the technical review for
  MTR. All these activities were accomplished satisfactorily with high quality.

Activity 3 - Project audit: project accounts were of high quality, prepared and audited within the
  statutory requirements.

3.3 Efficiency
Post-construction evaluations of the economic benefits of LGDP II investments were carried out
using both qualitative and quantitative approaches: key performance indicators; beneficiary
assessment; coverage and proximity; cost-effectiveness; and value for money (see Annex 3).

Overall, while there are variations between sectors, the analyses confirm that the LGDP decision
making processes, which are interactive and subject to hard budget constraints, led to an overall
positive outcome by empowering the clients and their constituents, and providing appropriate
incentives to enhance ownership and management skills.

Statistical evidence from the implementation of LGDP II indicated that the sub-projects were
implemented in a more cost effective manner compared to those under LGDP I (See table 3
Annex 3). The average cost of the sub-projects financed under LGDP II is 88% of the average
cost of sub-projects implemented under LGDP I, even without accounting for inflation due to the
time difference in the implementation of the two projects. A similar comparison of the average
cost for each of the sectors indicated similar results except for education and health where the



                                                 12

average costs were slightly higher (110%) than LGDP I costs. This can be explained by the fact
that under LGDP II, LGs were asked to ensure completeness of investments in the education and
health sector, in terms of other complementary infrastructure, to make them more functional.

Over the LGDP II period, residents have to travel an average of around 4.5 Km to access health
centers (in 1999 they had to travel at least 5.0 Km). Primary school students now have to travel
an average distance of around 1.2 Km to reach their schools (in 1999 the distance was 1.4 Km)
and persons fetching water from safe water points have to travel around 0.8Km (in 1999 the
average distance was 1.78 Km). Such reductions in distance traveled increase access to vital
basic services and impact poverty reduction.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating - Satisfactory.
Two out of three KPIs have been fully realized and surpassed. The 3rd KPI was met for the first
two years (one half of the project period) until the third year in FY2005/6 when it was derailed by
the abolition of the G Tax and rates for owner-occupied residential houses. To address this,
government with the assistance of LGDP II funds and technical support took four concrete
measures to lessen the adverse impact of the policy decision. (See paragraphs 3.2.1 to 3.2.5
above).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. The impact of LGDP II on
poverty, gender and social development was noteworthy. The implementation of sub-projects
was mainly by communities with support of local artisans. About 21 percent of the total LDG
was paid directly to communities for labor. Of this, direct payment to women accounted for 28%.
Since a number of construction materials (bricks, sand, aggregates, timber etc) were also procured
locally, more than 21% of the project funds were retained at community level, boosting the local
economy with a positive impact on poverty reduction. The project also had a positive impact on
social development. More than 95% of the LDG was invested in the social sector: primary
education (19%), primary health care (13%), water and sanitation (10%), roads (39%), and
agriculture extension (15%). The Communities Beneficiaries' Assessment revels that a slightly
larger percentage of women (65%) than men (62%) report that their priorities appear in the
development plans prepared at the LG level under LGDP II (See Annex 3 Table 6). Under
Component 3, the Capacity Building Grants enabled training provision to more than 13,000
women which is around 16% of the total staff trained.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening.          The project has contributed significantly in
strengthening institutional capacity of both the MoLG and LGs.             The ministry has been
restructured and as a result, the following institutional change/strengthening have been achieved:
(i) the Inspectorate Department was elevated to a Directorate. This provides for higher levels of
accountability and regular M&E; (ii) the Policy and Planning Unit was up-graded to a department
allowing for long-term strategic planning to be conducted; (iii) staffing of the ministry increased
from 122 to 164 by including positions required for strategic issues with diversified skill mix to
respond to the challenges of implementing decentralization; (iv) LGs assessment, which hitherto
was being done under LGDP II has been mainstreamed into the Inspectorate Department; and
(v) a home-grown LG information communication system (LOGICS) has been developed, tested,
upgraded and installed in the ministry to provide a one stop information centre on all LGs in the
country. Similarly LGs were restructured in 2006 to make them more responsive to the devolved
functions assigned to them under decentralization.          Unqualified LG staff members were
retrenched and appropriate qualified staff were recruited.




                                                 13

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
The following unintended outcomes were achieved as a result of the project:

        Restructuring of LGs: As implementation of the project began, it highlighted the
        capacity and staffing gaps in LGs. This led to the restructuring of LGs to make them
        more responsive to their decentralized mandates. Initially the restructuring placed a
        strain on LG performance arising out of staff exits and delays in recruiting new staff.
        However, recruitment of appropriately qualified staff is ongoing and by the end of
        FY2007/08 government intends to achieve 65% of the approved staffing levels in LGs.

        Establishment of LG Sector Working Group (LGSWG): The project financed the first
        four (2004 - 2007 inclusive) joint annual reviews of decentralization (JARD) which have
        resulted in a number of policy reforms (revision of the LG Act, the LG Finance and
        Accounting Regulation, the Town and Country Planning Act, and the LG (Rating) Act).
        The JARD also led to the establishment of a Decentralization Sector Working Group
        (DSWG) and the development partners pooling their resources into a basket to support
        the implementation of the LoGSIP.         This has resulted in more coordination and
        harmonization of government and donor support to decentralization.

        Mainstreaming environmental mitigation into contracts: Environmental mitigation
        activities met a number of problems due to staffing and funding constrains in LGs. To
        overcome this challenge, environmental mitigation measure were made part of a contract
        to be implemented by a contractor with well defined activities and cost. This good
        practice now has been adopted by the MoLG and it has issued a new contract guideline to
        LGs which require them to make environmental mitigation measures part and parcel of a
        contract.

        Tertiary institutions and local universities developing LG curriculum: The development
        of the standardized training modules and the involvement of the private sector in training
        LG staff led tertiary institutions and local universities to develop new curriculum for
        training LG staff. This will ensure that graduates from these institutions acquire relevant
        knowledge which would make them more relevant to the LGs once employed.

        Professional training: The LG staff sponsored for professional accounting training
        locally under the project opened an opportunity for private individuals to also sponsor
        themselves and sit for professional accounting course. To date there are over 1,500
        students who have registered to sit for ACCA at different stages, majority of which are
        self sponsored. In 2003 there were no professional accountants in LGs. By December
        2007, there were 41 professional accountants and 391 qualified accounts technicians in
        LGs.

        LG governance and anti-corruption (LG GAC) strategy: The numerous qualitative
        enquires (value for money audit, post procurement reviews, and national LGs
        assessments) conducted under the project and the Bank wide GAC led to the
        development of a national LG GAC strategy.

        Formation of a national association of LG training providers: The demand driven
        approach to the LG capacity building and the involvement of the private training
        providers (around 100) led to the emergence of a local market for LG training providers
        who have now formed an association to oversee their interest and ensure the necessary
        code of conduct of its members.

        Use of the LGDP approach in other countries: The LGDP approach as a vehicle to
        support and strengthen country decentralization reform has been adopted and used in a
        number of African and Asian countries.



                                               14

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey (See Annex 5)
A survey to Assess Beneficiary Participation and Accountability under LGDP II was carried out
by the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBoS). Around 63% of the households were of the view that
the performance of LGs had improved greatly due to the implementation of LGDP II projects.
Less than 10% of the communities reported that the performance of the LGs had worsened.
Majority of the key informants at the lower LGs indicated that flow of funds has improved.
About 90% of the LLGs reported that they were satisfied with the way the LGDP II funds were
utilized.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to maintaining the Development Outcome is Moderate due to:

 Mainstreaming of the LDG and CBG in the national budget:             Government of Uganda has
  mainstreamed the LDG and the CBG into its national budget. For the last two years of the
  project, government has fully funded the US$45 million per year for the LDG and CBG from
  its own budget. This mainstreaming will ensure sustainability of the LDG and CBG and it is an
  indication of the level of seriousness and commitment from government.

 On-going debate on the LG revenue base:        While there is endorsement of decentralization,
  uncertainty with regard to LG own-source revenues should be expected. Local revenue issues
  cut across the political, administrative and jurisdictional spheres and resolving the inherent
  tensions between the different spheres cannot be expected over the short to medium term.
  However, the willingness at the highest levels of government to introduce and assign new taxes
  to LGs is a positive development. The proposed Local Service Tax and the Hotel Tax, whose
  Bill is currently before Parliament, when approved is estimated to yield Ushs. 75 billion per
  annum. There is commitment from government, at the highest political level, to see that these
  measures become effective by July 2008.

 Creation of new districts:      At project effectiveness in 2003 there were 56 districts.       At
  completion (as a result of the creation of 24 new districts) there were 80 districts. Creation of
  new districts deflects resources, both human and financial, away from service delivery to
  administrative cost. It is estimated that a new district requires about Ushs. 1.8 billion (US$1.03
  million) per year for administration costs alone (Ushs. 1.2 billion for salaries/wages and Ushs.
  600 million for operating cost). While the cost implications of creating new districts are well
  understood within government, the drivers and justifications for new LG are not always well
  articulated. The tension between the political push to create new districts and the budgetary
  realities of making them effective may continue to be felt.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry - Satisfactory. The Bank engaged all the
stakeholders (government, development partners and LGs) during the design of the project. The
project development objective and the KPIs were discussed and agreed to by government. This
open dialogue ensured ownership of the project by government and buy-in by development
partners to co-fund the project. The project design built on the experiences and the lessons learnt
from the first LGDP (2000 - 2003).

(b) Quality of Supervision - Satisfactory. Bank supervision was regular and the Bank team
paid special attention to issues which would affect project implementation. The Bank country



                                                15

office provided on a timely basis all the necessary fiduciary support required for the successful
implementation of the project.       Discussions with government teams were frank, and Bank
management attention was always drawn on issues which required their attention. The Bank was
proactive and innovative to solve emerging issues to ensure that the project development
objective was achieved. When government made the decision to abolish G. Tax which impacted
one of the core activities under the LG revenue enhancement component of the project, the Bank
team addressed this problem by: (i) highlighting the need for adequate compensation of LGs by
central government for the loss of G Tax revenue as a PRSC prior action which was duly met by
government; (ii) preparing a note which assisted government to identify alternative own revenue
sources to replace the G Tax by the introduction of the LST and the Hotel Tax; and (iii)
supporting and agreeing to a government request to use part of the credit to facilitate LGs to
improve their revenue collection efficiency from the remaining own revenue sources.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance - Satisfactory. Since the project
was satisfactory at entry and throughout its implementation, the overall "satisfactory" rating for
Bank performance is justified.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance - Satisfactory. Government performance was satisfactory as
demonstrated by the high level of commitment to and ownership of the project. All legal
covenants were met and maintained by government. For the last two years of the project
(FY2005/6 and FY2006/7) government fully funded the LDG and CBG which accounts for about
two-third of the project cost. These grants have become part of the national budget and adequate
funding provided for in the MTEF for the next three years, thus ensuring sustainability of the two
grants to LGs.     Over the project implementation, the functions which hitherto were being
performed by the PCU have been mainstreamed and are being performed by civil servants of the
MoLG. Government was willing to discuss policy options freely and frankly with the Bank and
respected professional differences of opinion. Although G. Tax was abolished, rates on owner
occupied residential houses were exempted and 24 new districts created, government
demonstrated its commitment to ensure project success by: (i) compensating LGs for the revenue
loss due to abolition of G. Tax; (ii) approved two new tax measures (Local Service Tax and Hotel
tax) to replace the G. Tax; (iii) assisted LGs to update their valuation rolls and bring ratable
properties worth Ushs. 95 billion, with an annual potential yield of Ushs. 5.2 billion, within the
tax bracket of LGs; and (iv) provided an additional Ushs. 33 billion for wage enhancement to
LGs. These actions are commendable and justify the satisfactory rating.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance - Satisfactory. The performance of LGs
as the implementing agency for the LDG/CBG was satisfactory and in full compliance with the
project support implementation agreement (PSIA) signed between them and central government
(MoFPED and MoLG). The LDG/CBG was planned for and used in a participatory manner.
Investments were in the national priority program areas (primary education, health, water and
sanitation, roads and agriculture extension) and consistent with the government poverty
eradication action plan (PEAP). The performance of the MoLG was highly satisfactory. The
ministry ensured that the LDG/CBG were transferred on a timely basis to the LGs, funds were not
diverted and the necessary policy reforms such as the restructuring of the LGs, identification of
new taxes for LGs, support for urban planning, and support to update LGs valuations rolls were
achieved.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance - Satisfactory. See 5.2 (a) and
(b) above.



                                                16

6. Lessons Learned

6.1      Continuity and Convergence of Bank and other Development Partner Support is
critical for a sector: Support for the decentralization sector in Uganda started in 1994 with
DANIDA support to the MoLG/Decentralization Secretariat. In 1997 United Nations Capital
Development Fund (UNCDF) supported the District Development Project (DDP) which piloted
discretionary development financing in four districts. In 2000, building on lessons learned under
DDP, the World Bank initiated LGDP I by facilitating the MoLG in scaling up and rolling out
decentralization related activities to a wider set of districts. Starting in 2003, with involvement
from a wider set of Development Partners, LGDP II had the benefit of prolonged support to the
sector. Continuity of focus and support has resulted in the MoLG coming to own the process of
decentralization and develop a mutually supportive working relationship with the Bank and
Development Partners. At the same time, the now closed Second Economic and Financial
Management Project (EFMP II) and the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) now in its
seventh series, provided a convergence of support to the focus on decentralization through
components which concentrate on local governments. The same TTL led EFMP II and LGDP II
while a member of the LGDP II team was on the PRSC6 and 7 teams with responsibility for the
local government sector. Whereas the two teams from the EFMP II/LGDP II and the PRSC6/7
were kept intact, the important role played by the TTL in providing good leadership, coupled
with having the same Permanent Secretary for the MoLG, ensured continuity and the
development of the necessary trust and openness for the successful implementation of the project.

6.2      Working towards sustainability during the project period: A core of LGDP II's focus
was on the transfer, monitoring and accounting for regular Local Development Grants (LDG) and
Capacity Building Grants (CBG) to local governments. The grants were contingent on the local
governments "passing" an annual performance assessment. LGDP II was designed to fund the
two grants and annual assessments for the first three years of the four year project period. It was
believed that if the two grants and local government performance were indeed critical, GoU
would begin funding and managing them from its own resources. This materialized in the third
year of the project when GoU began funding both grants from its own budget, included them in
the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and mainstreamed the annual assessment of
local governments through its own Inspectorate Department.

6.3      Project support for qualitative enquiries/technical analytical work to inform policy and
legal reforms: During project implementation, a number of policy and legal reforms emerge
which require detailed analytical work to inform government decisions. Success of reforms
hinges on active government ownership of the process of preparing time-sensitive, issue and
problem-specific analytical work as legitimate project activities.         LGDP II supported the
preparation of background work leading to, among others, the Decentralization Policy Strategic
Framework, the Local Government Rating Act and its Regulations, reform of the Business Levy,
the Local Government Public Financial Management Reform, the LG governance and anti-
corruption strategy (LG GAC) and the National Local Government Capacity Building Policy.
Most decentralization related policy changes gained from project supported analytical work.
Government was in the drivers' seat in terms of identifying the issues, preparing the ToRs,
recruiting and supervising the consultants. The Bank and other development partners provided
the necessary technical support. This high level of government ownership of analytical work led
to policy reforms initiated under LGDP II being accepted and implemented by government. This
was possible because of the trust, responsiveness and team work from both the Bank,
development partners and the government side.          The project design allowed the necessary
flexibility for the team and government to be more responsive and work together to address issues
as and when they arise.


                                                 17

6.4      Mainstreaming project management is a process not an event: LGDP I was managed
directly through a Project Management Unit (PMU) which was responsible for all project
activities. LGDP II was managed by Component Managers, who are MoLG staff, and received
implementation support from a project-funded core team called the Project Co-ordination Unit
(PCU).     In the forthcoming Local Government Management and Service Delivery Project
(LGMSDP), the Component Managers will take full responsibility of their areas while a very
small project-funded skeletal Project Support Team (PST) will report to them. Mainstreaming
project management has taken between seven to ten years of sustained effort on the part of the
government as well as the Bank and other Development partners to become effective.

6.5      Building capacity requires much more than providing training and conducting
workshops: Getting fiscal transfers right is just one part of ensuring effective decentralization.
Building institutional and human capacity within central as well as local governments is equally
important and which cannot be achieved by depending on training events and workshops alone.
LGDP II used multiple approaches including active mentoring of local government staff by senior
and more experienced government personnel who provided hands-on support to their colleagues,
ensuring standardization of information flows through the preparation of handbooks and
guidelines with clear instructions on how to implement new procedures, conducting regular
assessments to provide follow up guidance and feedback. Of course, training was required, but
instead of contracting out training, LGDP II was instrumental in creating a national "market" for
training where the local governments procured training from a list of accredited private and
public training providers who had to compete for it.       As an unintended consequence, the
competitive training providers market has also led to the creation of a growing local pool of
consultants who now understand and can respond to the needs of local governments.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The borrowers/implementing agency assessment of the project and its conclusion that the project
achieved its development objective are consistent with the ICR. Nevertheless the borrower notes
that the implementation of the project coincided with major policy reforms which affected the
pace of implementation.      These reforms included: (a) the political pronouncement on and
subsequent abolition of the Graduated tax; (b) the creation of new districts which overstretched
the human and financial capacities of both central and LGs; (c) challenges associated with LG
staffing arising from the restructuring; and (d) challenges of mainstreaming environmental
management in LGs. The project team agrees with the comments provided by the borrower (See
Annex 7).

(b) Co-financiers
The co-financiers of LGDP II (Netherlands, DANIDA, Irish Aid and Austria) submitted
consolidated comments on the draft ICR. Overall, they appreciate the ICR as a good and well
written summary report highlighting the progress of LGDP II implementation over time and that
it reflects objective assessment of achieved progress. The comments raised by the co-financiers
on an earlier draft of the ICR have been incorporated in this final version of the ICR. However,
some of the concerns raised in their comments on the earlier draft were broader sector issues
which are beyond the limited mandate of LGDP II as a project. The co-financier comments on a
draft version of the ICR are attached in Annex 8.




                                               18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

SUPPORT FOR THE
DECENTRALIZATION                       22.90              23.80           103.93%
PROCESS
LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
SERVICE DELIVERY                      107.50             107.50           100.00%

LOCAL GOVERNMENT
CAPACITY BUILDING                      15.00              15.00           100.00%

LOCAL GOVERNMENT
REVENUE ENHANCEMENT                    11.40              11.90           104.39%

PROJECT MANAGEMENT
AND COORDINATION                         6.40               6.80          106.25%


            Total Baseline Cost       163.20             165.00           101.10%
Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00          00.00%
Price Contingencies                      1.80               0.00          00.00%
             Total Project Costs      165.00             165.00           100.00%
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00               0.00          00.00%
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00          00.00%
     Total Financing Required         165.00             165.00           100.00%



(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                           14.80        14.88      100.54%
DENMARK: Danish Intl. Dev.
Assistance (DANIDA)                                 2.40          2.40     100.00%

AUSTRIA, Gov. of (Except for Fed.
Chancellery-DG Dev. Coop)                           0.30          0.30     100.00%

IRELAND, Govt. of                                   7.50          7.50    .100.00%
NETHERLANDS, Govt. of THE
(Except for MOFA/Min of Dev. Coop                  15.00        15.00      100.00%

International Development
Association (IDA)                                  50.00        50.00      100.00%

IDA GRANT FOR DEBT
VULNERABLE                                         75.00        75.00      100.00%




                                           19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 - Support to overall decentralization process: The institutional support to overall
decentralization process achieved the following outputs:

       Rolled Harmonized Participatory Planning Guide (HPPG) to all levels of LGs (56
       districts, 13 municipalities and all lower LGs).

       The Urban Planning Guide was printed and distributed to 93 HLGs and 96 Urban
       councils and a total of 189 (95%) of district and urban council officials (both technical
       and councilors) trained in the use of the guide. Also prepared the principles for the
       revision of the Town and Country Planning Act.

       LG Public Procurement and Disposal of Assets Regulations developed, published and
       distributed to all LGs; 370 LG technical staff (Chief Administrative Officers, Chief
       Finance Officers, and heads of departments) and 314 members of HLG contracts
       committees trained.

       Developed, published, distributed and sensitized all LG staff on the national LG
       assessment manual; and conducted annual assessment with feedbacks to LGs.

       Initiated and conducted three joint annual reviews of decentralization (JARD) which led
       to the development of the Decentralization Policy Strategic Framework (DPSF) - a one
       stop reference document on Uganda decentralization policy and a ten year Local
       Government Sector Investment Plan (LoGSIP).

       A total of 896 LLGs were audited for FY2002/3 and FY2003/4.

       Developed, published and launched a national LG capacity building strategy, and
       developed, published and distributed 32 standardized generic training modules (GTM) to
       all LGs and private training providers.

Outcomes/results:

       Remarkable improvement in the quality of planning at HLG level. Today all LGs have
       three year rolling development plan linked to the budget. The percentage of HLGs which
       received a reward after the national LG assessment for improved quality in plan increased
       from 9% in 2002 to 98% in 2006.

       Structural plans for 93 urban councils prepared and 40% of district and urban councils
       have recruited Physical Planners. The new Physical Planning Bill is before Cabinet.

       Conflicts and tensions between councilors and LG technical staff reduced which has led
       to more harmony and teamwork.

       Government approved a new structure for HLG procurement and disposal units (PDUs).
       Twenty-five districts have filled the post and have a streamlined procurement function.

       The annual assessment, with inbuilt incentives and sanction mechanism, have led to
       better understanding by LGs the laws and regulations governing their operations and
       improved level of compliance. Full compliance by HLGs increased from 29% (16 HLG)
       in 2003 to 59% (33 HLG) by 2006.

       The JARD has resulted into a number of policy reforms (revision of the LG Act, the LG
       Finance and Accounting Regulation, the Town and Country Planning Act, and the LG
       (Rating) Act). It also led to the establishment of a Decentralization Sector Working



                                                20

        Group (DSWG) and the development partners pooling their resources into a basket to
        support the implementation of the LoGSIP. This has resulted into more coordination and
        harmonization of government and donor support to decentralization.

        Improvement in the quality of accounting and financial management at LLG level.

        Batter harmonization of LG capacity building activities, improved private public
        partnership for LG capacity building, the standardized training modules promoted
        commonality of messages across LGs and target groups, and the percentage of HLG with
        integrated capacity building plans increased from 39% in 2002 to 98% by 2006.

Component 2 - Local development service delivery: LGs used the LDG to achieve the following
service delivery outputs:

        A total of 31,832 sub-projects at an average unit cost of Ushs. 11.4 million (US$6,500)
        were implemented in the sectors of administration; primary education; primary health
        care; production; roads and drainage; solid waste; and water and sanitation and were
        distributed as follows:

        (i)    Roads and drainage - 9,001 sub-projects implemented at an average unit cost of
               Ushs. 15.7 million and accounted for 39% of the total LDG;

        (ii)   Education - 6,348 sub-projects implemented at an average unit cost of Ushs. 10.8
               million and accounted for 19% of the total LDG;

        (iii)  Production - 5,282 sub-projects implemented at an average unit cost of Ushs. 10.6
               million and accounted for 15% of the total LDG;

        (iv)   Health - 2,984 sub-projects implemented at an average unit cost of Ushs. 16.0
               million and accounted for 13% of the total LDG;

        (v)    Water and sanitation - 6,744 sub-projects implemented at an average unit cost of
               Ushs. 5.6 million and accounted for 10% of the total LDG;

        (vi)   Administration - 1,071 sub-projects implemented at an average unit cost of Ushs.
               8.1 million and accounted for 2% of the total LDG; and

        (vii) Solid waste - 403 sub-projects implemented at an average unit cost of Ushs. 6.0
               million and accounted for 1% of the total LDG.

        The implementation of the above sub-projects created short term employment (causal
        labor) opportunities for about 5.53 million Ugandans of which 28% (about 1.56 million)
        were women. The total income earned by these laborers was Ushs. 75 billion (about
        US$42.9 million) and it accounted for 21% of the total sub-projects investment cost.

Outcomes/results:

        Improvement in service delivery in terms of access due to the micro nature of the
        investments, many numbers and national coverage.

        Increase in income for those households who had the opportunity to avail their labor for
        the implementation of the various sub-projects thus contributing to the boosting of their
        local economy.




                                                21

Component 3 - Local government capacity building:             LGs used the CBG to achieve the
following outputs:

        A total of 260,089 participants [LGs staff (137,609 participants), councilors (63,288
        participants), private sector (4,620 participants), CSOs (3,238 participants), women and
        youth (2,654 participants) and farmers (2,519 participants)].

        Top on the list of training topics were: (i) investment appraisal and project planning
        (19,853 participants of which 14% were females); (ii) management and leadership skills
        (16,167 participants - 12% females); (iii) development planning (12,896 participants -
        16% females); (iv) participatory planning (12,611 participants - 7% females); (v) gender
        mainstreaming (12,621 participants - 31% females); and (vi) financial management
        (10,734 participants - 16% females).

        District/Municipal resource pool (D/MRP) teams have been institutionalized and
        operational in all district/municipal LGs to assist technical planning committees (TPCs)
        of both HLGs and LLGs.

        Over 100 private training service providers for LGs in various fields were registered and
        oriented to decentralization and the LG systems in Uganda by MoLG.

Results/outcomes:

        Improved performances of district and municipal LGs as measured by their capacities to
        meet minimum statutory requirements increased from 59% to 81% and 69% to 78% from
        2003 to 2006 respectively.

        Career development courses resulted into improved staff efficiency, confirmations, and
        promotions. The professional training resulted into the creation of a critical mass of
        professionals in finance, accounts and human resource management in the LG sector.

        The skills and knowledge of the 100 private training service providers on LGs and
        decentralization have been improved resulting into a critical mass of private trainers,
        advocates and change agents for LGs and decentralization.

Component 4 - Local government revenue enhancement:                 The LG revenue enhancement
component achieved the following outputs:

        All HLGs (districts and municipalities) and Town councils prepared and implemented
        annual local revenue enhancement plans.

        Trade licensing reform to simplify and shorten the trade licensing procedure rolled-out to
        10 LGs.

        Produced a draft Business and Levies Bill to rationalize, consolidate and repeal the
        existing six business and levies acts (trading licensing act, markets act; shoppers act,
        liquor licensing act, enguli licensing act, and sugar sell act) into one simplified act which
        will promote business start-ups, growth and revenue generation.

        734 LG officials (districts, municipalities and town) trained in local revenue enhancement
        and sensitized about the constitutional mandate and civic duties for citizens to pay taxes.

        Prepared revenue handbook and a cost/benefit assessment tool to assist LGs appraise
        local revenue enhancement opportunities, provided seed capital for local revenue
        enhancement to 170 LGs (74 districts, 13 municipalities and 83 towns); and attached 25



                                                 22

        technical staff from weaker LGs to strong LGs in revenue generation to have peer-to-peer
        learning on revenue mobilization.

        Produced and published the LG (Rating) Act 2005; LG (Rating) Regulations, 2006; a
        Property Rating Handbook, and a training module for property rates. Trained officials
        from 92 urban councils and 13 municipalities in property rates taxation; disbursed Ushs.
        3.8 billion to assist 60 districts, 13 municipalities and 85 towns to carry out valuation of
        properties and up-date/develop new valuation rolls which would be valid for 5 years once
        they have been approved.

Results/outcomes:

        The revenue enhancement plans resulted in improved efficiency in the collection of
        revenue from existing sources and for 54 districts revenue from existing sources
        increased from Ushs. 51.7 billion in FY 2004/5 to Ushs. 56.9 billion in FY 2006/7
        representing a 10% increase.

        Time to obtain trading licenses reduced from an average of 30 days to 30 minutes - 3
        days resulting into voluntary compliance by business community by paying trading
        licenses freely.

        Preparation of valuation rolls for 81 LGs (10 municipalities, 61 towns, and 10 districts)
        completed and the minister responsible for LGs has approved rolls for 22 LGs (1
        municipality and 21 towns) and the new valuation rolls have become operation in the
        FY2007/8.     The remaining rolls will become operational in the FY2008/9.              Full
        implementation of the rates from existing rolls will yield Ushs. 5.21 billion annually.

Component 5 - Support to project management and coordination: This component achieved the
following outputs:

        Prepared Value for Money (VFM) audit report for HLGs in the use of the LGDP II
        project funds.

        Produced a beneficiary assessment report on LGDP II

        Produced a social impact assessment of LGDP II

        Prepared an environment and natural resource (ENR) management checklists for LG and
        trained technical staff of HLGs in ENR management.

        Produced funds transfer tracking report
        Developed LG Governance and Anti-corruption strategy (LG GAC)

Results/outcomes:

        A number of decentralization policy reforms and the design of the LGDP II successor
        program (LGMSD) were greatly informed by the various M&E activities and the
        qualitative inquiries conducted under the various studies.




                                                 23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

3.1      Approach

This analysis focuses on the Local Development Grant (LDG) because it capacitated LGs to
operationalize the core principle of decentralization policy -- enabling participatory local level
decision-making and prioritization of investments. Moreover, the grant mechanism was actively
monitored and thus allows the tracking of benefits. The task of post-implementation evaluation
was to determine if the systems put in place under LGDP II have indeed led to achievements of
economic benefits. The analysis uses four approaches:

     1. Comparison of sub-projects implemented under LGDP I and LGDP II;

     2. Physical benefits achieved in the three key services of health, education and water;

     3. Findings from a beneficiary participation and accountability survey; and

     4. Results from a detailed Value for Money (VFM) Study.

A comprehensive evaluation of the impacts due solely to LGDP II is not possible because there
are multiple overlapping stakeholders financing similar facilities. This makes it difficult, if not
impossible, to isolate the net benefits and assign them to LGDP II inputs. Data for the analysis
was obtained from MoLGs Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and studies commissioned as part of
post-implementation evaluation.

3.2      Comparison of Sub-projects under LGDP I and LGDP II

Tables 1 and 2 summarize the investment results by sector under LGDP II and LGDP I
respectively. Under LGDP II, a total of 12,790 sub-projects were completed in the eight sectors
at a total cost of Ushs. 95.54 billion.          Under LGDP I, a total of 8,204 sub-projects were
implemented at a total cost of Ushs. 63.16 billion. At the same time, overall average costs of sub-
projects between the two project periods decreased to Ushs. 7.47 million per sub-project during
LGDP II from Ushs. 7.69 million per sub-project during LGDP I.

Table 1: Summary of LGDP II Completed Sub-projects by Sector

                         No. of Sub-     % of Sub-    Actual Cost    % of Actual   Average Cost
       Sector              projects       projects       (Ushs.)       Cost       (Ushs./Sub-project)
 Administration                   256        2%        3,291,919,431       3%        12,859,060
 Education                      3,445       27%       22,219,348,464      23%          6,449,738
 Health                         1,248       10%       13,892,024,525      15%        11,131,430
 Production                     1,593       12%        6,185,279,079       6%          3,882,787
 Roads & Drainage               3,338       26%       37,155,051,192      39%        11,130,932
 Solid waste                      140        1%          801,245,495       1%          5,723,182
 Water                          1,543       12%        7,688,782,046       8%          4,983,008
 Sanitation                     1,227       10%        4,308,919,316       5%          3,511,752
 Total                        12,790       100%       95,542,569,547    100%           7,470,099
Source: Output / Impact Reports, LGDP II




                                                    24

This comparison does not only indicates a maturing of the intergovernmental transfer mechanism
being able to cope with an increase of 51% in the overall cost of sub-projects and a 56% increase
in the total number of sub-projects managed by the local governments, but also increase in the
capacity and efficiency of LGs.

Table 2: Summary of LGDP I Completed Sub-projects by Sector


        Sector              No. of Sub-      % of Sub-    Actual Cost       % of Actual      Average Cost
                              projects        projects        (UShs.)            Cost       (Ushs./Sub-project)
 Administration                     117          15%       3,236,321,529           5%           27,660,868
 Education                        2,525          31%      14,715,183,740          23%            5,827,796
 Health                             832          10%       8,441,966,949          13%           10,146,595
 Production                         809            5%      3,150,550,664           5%           10,146,595
 Roads & Drainage                 2,081          25%      24,359,287,209          39%           11,130,932
 Solid waste                         99            1%         696,371,107          1%            7,034,052
 Water & Sanitation               1,741          21%       8,565,436,093          14%            4,919,837
 Total                            8,204         100%      63,165,117,290         100%            7,699,307
Source: Output / Impact Reports, LGDP II


These increases demonstrate the growing capacity of the system, both at the national and local
government levels to deal with fiscal flows to allow successful implementation and in the
monitoring of sub-projects. Table 3 below provides a comparison of average costs of sub-
projects across sectors between LGDP I and LGDP II sub-projects.

Table 3: Comparative Average Cost of Sub-projects during LGDP II and LGDP I

                                  LGDP II                       LGDP I               No. of Sub-    Avg. Cost
                                                                                                     of Sub-
      Sector            No. of Sub-      Average Cost  No. of Sub-    Average Cost    projects
                          projects                                                                   projects
                                          (Ushs./Sub-  projects        (Ushs./Sub-   (LGDP2 /
                        Completed           project)   Completed        project)     LGDP1)         (LGDP2 /
                                                                                                    LGDP1)
 Administration                256         12,859,060        117       27,660,868       2.2           0.5
 Education                  3,445           6,449,738      2,525        5,827,796       1.4           1.1
 Health                     1,248          11,131,430        832       10,146,595       1.5           1.1
 Production                 1,593           3,882,787        809        3,894,377       2.0           1.0
 Roads &
 Drainage                   3,338          11,130,932      2,081       11,705,568       1.6           1.0

 Solid waste                   140          5,723,182         99        7,034,052       1.4           0.8
 Water &
 Sanitation                 2,770           4,331,300      1,741        4,919,837       1.6           0.9

 Total                     12,790           7,470,099      8,204        7,699,307       1.6           1.0
Source: Output / Impact Reports, LGDP I and LGDP II


These comparisons are a clear indication of the strength of the local government and associated
public systems which allow cost and budget controls to be exercised over a sustained period.

3.3      Service Delivery Benefits achieved in Health, Education and Water Sectors

Local Development Grants transferred to LGs allowed for participatory planning and
prioritization of investments at the local level. Residents and their representatives were able to
make choices as to what investments they desired and the physical location of the investments.
LGs received funds through mechanisms established under LGDP I and II as well as through



                                                       25

other sector development funding. Table 4 below, summarizes the reduction in distance residents
have to travel to access health centers, schools and water points.

Table 4: Impact of LGDP and Other Sector Development Finances on Proximity of
Education, Health and Water Services

 Distance to Health Center                                  2006                    1999
 Less than 2 Km                                            66.0%                    36.9%
 Greater than 2 Km but less than 5 Km                      24.0%                    35.6%
 Greater than 5Km                                          10.0%                    27.5%
 Total                                                     100.0%                  100.0%
 Average distance                                          4.5 Km                   5.0 Km

 Distance to Primary Schools                                2006                    1999
 Less than 1 Km                                            34.7%                    33.0%
 Greater than 1 Km but less than 3 Km                      43.6%                    48.0%
 Greater than 3 but less than 5Km                          16.4%                    14.0%
 Greater than 5 Km                                          5.3%                    5.0%
 Total                                                     100.0%                  100.0%
 Average distance                                          1.2 Km                   1.4 Km

 Distance to Water Points                                   2006                    1999
 Less than 1 Km                                            71.6%                    46.9%
 Greater than 1 Km but less than 5 Km                      27.6%                    52.7%
 Greater than 5 Km                                          0.8%                    0.4%
 Total                                                     100.0%                  100.0%
 Average distance                                          0.8 Km                  1.78 Km
Source: MoLG Implementation Unit


Over the LGDP II period, residents have to travel an average of around 4.5 Km to access health
centers (in 1999 they had to travel at least 5.0Km). Primary school students now have to travel an
average distance of around 1.2 Km to reach their schools (in 1999 the distance was 1.4Km) and
persons fetching water from safe water points have to travel around 0.8Km (in 1999 the average
distance was 1.78Km). Such reductions in distance traveled increase access to vital basic services
and impact poverty reduction.

3.4      Beneficiary Participation and Accountability Survey

A Communities Beneficiaries' Assessment was conducted by the Uganda Bureau of Statistics
(UBoS) for the Ministry of Local Government. The survey was nationwide with a qualitative and
quantitative module. The quantitative module covered a sample of 1,500 Households from 150
communities while the qualitative module comprised key informant interviews with 30 Higher
Local Governments, 30 Lower Local Governments, 30 Private firms and 30 Civil Society
Organizations selected randomly from within the quantitative sample.           In undertaking this
assignment, UBoS adopted a participatory approach where a cross section of stakeholders such as
community members, technical personnel in the respective LGs, Private Firms and Civil Society
Organizations were consulted. Scheduled interviews were used with households.

Table 5 below provides an indication that 36% of the respondents had participated in identifying
development activities under LGDP II. While this may seem low, it should be noted that a large
number of LGs have substantial remote populations. Nevertheless, this is an area where the next
operation will have to pay attention and devise means to increase participation. However, of
those who did participate, 63% report that their priorities did appear in the LG plans and thereby
demonstrate the responsiveness of the LGDP II planning and prioritization processes.


                                                 26

Furthermore, 82% of respondents who did participate go on to report that the projects they
selected were actually delivered.

Table 5: LGDP II Sub-project Participation and Responsiveness to Local Needs


     Participation and                                             Responses

       Responsiveness          Yes          (%)         No         (%)        Don't
                                                                             Know      (%)  Total  (%)

 1. Did you participate in
 development activities for    380         36%         672         64%         -        -    1052  100%
 LGDP II?
 2. If yes to (1), did your
 priorities appear in the      240         63%         110         29%         30      8%    380   100%
 plans?
 3. If yes to (2), did the
 projects delivered respond    197         82%          27         11%         16      7%    240   100%
 to the plans?
Source: SIA Survey


Table 6 presents gender inclusion because slightly larger percentage of women (65%) than men
(62%) report that their priorities appear in the development plans prepared at the LG level under
LGDP II.

Table 6: LGDP II Sub-project Responsiveness to Gender Needs

                                                                 Responses
 RESPONSIVENESS
                            Gender      Yes      (%)       No       (%)      Don't
                                                                             Know     (%)   Total  (%)

 Did your priorities         Male       156     62%        79       31%       16      6%     251  100%
 appear in the
 development plans for
 LGDP II?                   Female       84     65%        31       24%       14      11%    129  100%

                  Total                 240                110                30             380
Source: SIA Survey


Decentralization is designed to increase the role of local representatives in the decision-making
process and allow such leadership to respond to local demands. Table 7 shows that more people
are satisfied by the response of their politicians at the lowest local government level - 91% at the
LC I level are satisfied with their local politicians. This does indicate that the "bottom up"
approach has become functional under LGDP II.

Table 7: Perceptions of Citizens of their Politicians' Responsiveness to Local Needs under
LGDP II


  At LG                      Politicians Responsiveness to Local Needs under LGDP II
  Level                                                                                          Ranking
               Satisfied    (%)     Dissatisfied   (%)      Don't Know       (%)    Total  (%)

   LC I          977       91%          75         7%            24          2%     1,076  100%    1
  LC II          690       64%         120         11%           264         25%    1,074  100%    2

  LC III         576       54%         282         26%           215         20%    1,073  100%    3

  LC V           304       28%         387         36%           382         36%    1,073  100%    4
Source: SIA Survey




                                                         27

3.5      Decentralized System Effectiveness based on Value for Money (VFM) Assessment

Definition1: VFM is defined as an independent assessment of the extent to which an organization
operates efficiently and effectively and with due regard to economy and quality. This includes
whether or not:

         investments have met the objectives for which they were conceived;

         financial human and physical resources consumed in realizing the investment are
         consistent with normally accepted norms;

         the process through which the investment is realized is consistent with accepted rules and
         regulations;

         quality of finished investments are constructed to the standard agreed upon; and

         impact and utilization of the investment is to the degree expected.

The VFM audit approach rests on the interrelation of three variables: "economy", "efficiency"
and "effectiveness" defined as follows:

    Economy: is concerned with minimizing the cost of resources used for an activity, with due
         regard for appropriate quality - and is audited in terms of deviations between budgeted
         cost, contract price; actual cost or market cost and defect cost. "Economy" is rated as:
         Best (3); Good (2); Fair (1); or Poor (0).

    Efficiency: is concerned with the investment processes and has been defined in five stages:
         planning and approval process; procurement process; implementation process; financial
         management; and commissioning /handover process. Efficient execution of a sub-project
         ("efficiency") is rated as: Best (3); Good (2); Fair (1); or Poor (0).

    Effectiveness: is concerned with the extent to which objectives have been achieved and the
         relationship between the intended impact and the actual impact of an activity. It includes:
         quality of finished activity/investment product (adherence to standards; quality of
         material; quality of workmanship); utilization of finished investment; operation and
         maintenance considerations (Budget allocation; O&M plan; O&M implemented). The
         extent to which the investments meet their objectives, (effectiveness) is rated as: Best (3);
         Good (2); Fair (1); or Poor (0).

A sample of 1,083 sub-projects out of the total of 8,204 subprojects financed under LGDP II was
selected for Value for Money (VFM) Analysis. The results of LGDP II VFM field observations in
terms of "economy", "efficiency" and relative to "effectiveness" are summarized in Table 8
relative to LGDP I. Quantitative index are used for rating for "economy", for "efficiency" and
for "effectiveness" or any combinations of these aggregate for VFM.




1
 Report to: Ministry of Local Government, LGDP Technical and Value for Money Audit of LGDP and DDP Supported Districts,
  Synthesis Report. March 2004.




                                                          28

Table 8: VFM Assessment of Sectors

 Rating Indicators       Admin.       Education        Health       Production          Road         Water&
                                                                                                    Sanitation      VFM

 Economy                  1.65            1.94          1.79            1.52             1.46            1.82        1.70
 Efficiency               1.45            1.76          1.69            1.59             1.52            1.68        1.62
 Effectiveness            1.80            1.97          1.65            1.40             1.61            1.62        1.67
 VFM                      4.90            5.68          5.14            4.51             4.59            5.12        4.99
 Ranking                    4               1             2               6                5              3
Source: MOLG, Technical and Value for Money Audit of LGDP II supported Districts-Final Synthesis Report, December 2007


An analysis of the data generated during VFM assessment shows that the ranking of outcome or
"effectiveness" of the project is correlated to the ranking of "economy" and "efficiency" of the
local government. In particular, "effectiveness" is highly dependent on the efficiency of the
execution of the processes of planning and approval, procurement, implementation, financial
management and commissioning/handover. Districts which utilize their resources frugally (i.e.
have "economy" tend also to have high outcomes although not as high as those that have
mastered the skills necessary for executing the processes within a project cycle). Thus, the
hypothesis that local governments with capacity will select and implement subprojects that are
viable appears to be validated.

Sector Analysis: Out of the 1,083 sub-projects sampled for VFM analysis, 182 (14,5%) sub-
projects were sampled in the Administration and Management Sector, 218 (17,3%) in the
Education Sector, 204 (16,2%) in the Health Sector, 148 (11,7%) in the Production and
Marketing Sector, 282 (22,4%) in the Roads Sector, and 221 (17,6%) in the Water and Sanitation
Sector.

Table 8 above provides averaging of VFM scores over the different sectors of investments.
Projects in the education sector are rated to have achieved the highest value for money (5.68),
followed by health with an average VFM score of 5.14; water and sanitation with an average
VFM score of 5.12; administration with an average VFM score of 4.90; roads with an average
VFM score of 4.59 and lastly production with an average VFM score of 4.51. The Overall Value
for Money score for all sampled projects was 4.99, which is very close to rating Good (5 to 7
points = Good).

VFM Analysis at different LG Levels: Aggregation of the subproject sample by level of local
government implementation (Municipal, Division, ward/parish/community) shows again that the
higher the direct participation the higher the degree of satisfaction in the value for money
obtained from the project in question. Table 9 summarizes score for VFM at different levels of
local governments.

Table 9: VFM Assessment at Different Local Government

             Level                                                Overall VFM (No.; %)
                                         Best             Good                 Fair              Poor             Total

 Municipal/District                             33               111                  70                  17           231
                                         14%               48%                 305                7%              100%

 Division/Sub-county                          119                401                300                   81           701
                                         13%               45%                 33%                 95             100%

 Ward/Parish/Community                          34                54                  26                   9           123
                                         28%               44%                 21%                7%              100%

             Total                            186                566                396                  107          1255
                                         15%               45%                32%                 9%              100%
Source: MOLG, Technical and Value for Money Audit of LGDP II supported Districts-Final Synthesis Report, December 2007




                                                           29

Correlation of Cost-effectiveness and Functionality: Table 10 summarizes the correlation of
cost-effectiveness and departmental functionality. Analyses of the correlation between cost-
effectiveness and functionality of the departments implementing the project in local governments
show positive relations indicating that the better the functioning of the department the better the
cost-effectiveness of the project outcome. This further validates the condition of project design,
that institutional capacity is a key to project outcome under participatory type of project outcome.

Table 10: Correlation of Cost-effectiveness and Functionality


                        Cost-            Relatively
     Sector         effectiveness        correlation                Functionality indicator (most correlated)
                                         co-efficient

                         1.00                0.19
 Administration                                            Local Revenue Performance
                         1.00                0.15          Performance on LOGICS monitoring system

                         1.00                0.20          Council, Executive and Finance and Planning Committee
 Education                                                 Performance
                         1.00                0.17          O&M expenditure
 Health                  1.00                0.06          Budget Allocation Performance
                         1.00                0.18          Procurement Capacity and Performance

 Production              1.00                0.17          Quality of the Development Plan and linkages with BFP
                                                           and budget
                         1.00                0.19          Local Revenue Performance
                         1.00                0.13          Gender Mainstreaming Performance
 Roads
                         1.00                0.11          Quality of the Development Plan and linkages with BFP
                                                           and budget
                         1.00                0.68
 Drainage                                                  Functionality of LG Works Department
                         1.00                0.62          Functionality of LG Production Department
                         1.00                0.50          Performance on LOGICS monitoring system
 Solid waste
                         1.00                0.45          Functionality of LG Environment and Natural Resources
                                                           Department
                         1.00                0.22
 Water                                                     Functionality of LG Water and Sanitation Department
                         1.00                0.19          Performance on LOGICS monitoring system
                         1.00                0.22
 Sanitation                                                Performance on LOGICS monitoring system
                         1.00                0.17          Functionality of LG Works Department
                         1.00                0.06
 All Sectors                                               Performance on LOGICS monitoring system
                         1.00                0.06          Local Revenue Performance
Source: MOLG, Technical and Value for Money Audit of LGDP II supported Districts-Final Synthesis Report, December 2007


3.5      Conclusions

The LGDP II presents a positive impact. The financing of basic infrastructure and services under
LGDP II has improved access to services, particularly addressing the needs of children and
females. The program is overall relatively cost-effective and has yielded value for money. The
more standardized the nature of the investments such as for education and health, the more the
value for money, even when the relative cost increase, is higher than the average increases.
While there are significant variations between sectors, the potential for improvement of the
effectiveness and sustainability of the investment under LGDP II type projects rest on improving
the skill of the local government staff and central government and appropriate incentive mixes in
the sectors on a continuous basis. The findings noted above confirm the design hypothesis.




                                                           30

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title             Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Lance Morrell             Team Leader
Roland White              Urban Financial Specialist
Solomon Alemu             Engineer
Rowena Martinez           Operations Officer
James Karuiru             Engineer
Joseph Kizito             Financial Management Specialist
Richard Olowo             Procurement Specialist
Mary Bitekerezo           Social Development Specialist
Sudharshan Canagarajah    Country Economist
Ephrem Asebe              Consultant                             Economist
Modupe Adebowale          Senior Finance Officer
Edith Mwenda              Lawyer
Perla San Juan            Program Assistant
Jesper Steffensen         Consultant                             PIP
Douglas Grube             Consultant                             Capacity Bldg Spec
Riel Franzen              Consultant                             Revenue Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Solomon Alemu             Sr Sanitary Engineer             AFTU1
Mary C.K. Bitekerezo      Sr Social Development Spec.      AFTCS
Theresa Marissa J. Gamulo Procurement Analyst              AFTU1
Madhur Gautam             Lead Economist                   AFTAR
Matthew D. Glasser        Lead Urban Specialist            AFTU1
Marie Claire Li Tin Yue   Program Assistant                AFTU1
Agnes Kaye                Program Assistant                AFMUG
Daryoush Kianpour         Sr Information Officer           AFTRL
Mihaly Kopanyi            Sr Infrastructure Specialist     SASDU
Katherine Kuper           Sr Urban Spec.                   AFTU1
Barbara K. Magezi         Public Sector Spec.              AFTPR
Rowena J. Martinez        Consultant                       AFTU1
Lance Morrell             Consultant                       AFTU1
Barjor E. Mehta           Sr Urban Specialist              AFTU1
Peter Murphy              Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.     EASPR
Suleiman Namara           Sr Social Protection Specialist  AFTH1
Harriet Nannyonjo         Sr Education Spec.               AFTH1
Mark Nelson               Sr Operations Officer            WBICD
Naa Dei Nikoi             Sr Operations Officer            AFTU1
Labite Victorio Ocaya     Highway Engineer                 AFTTR
Peter Okwero              Sr Health Specialist             AFTH1
Richard Olowo             Sr Procurement Specialist        AFTPC



                                           31

Martin Onyach-Olaa       Urban Specialist                   AFTU1
Zara Inga Sarzin         Urban Specialist                   AFTU1
Patrick Piker Umah Tete  Sr Financial Management Spec.     AFTFM
Rama K.Venkateswaran     Sr Financial Management Spec.     SARFM



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                       1                         25.74
  FY03                                     45                         252.75
  FY04                                                                  1.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
  FY08                                                                  0.00
                        Total:             46                         279.49
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                                                  0.00
  FY04                                     33                         181.36
  FY05                                     36                         227.45
  FY06                                     35                         133.15
  FY07                                     26                          84.07
  FY08                                     22                          66.49
                        Total:            152                         692.52




                                         32

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A survey to Assess Beneficiary Participation and Accountability under LGDP II was carried out
by the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBoS). The nationwide survey utilized qualitative and
quantitative modules. The quantitative module covered a sample of 1,500 households from 150
communities while the qualitative module included key informant interviews with 30 higher LGs,
30 lower LGs, 30 private firms and 30 civil society organizations (CSOs) selected randomly from
within the quantitative sample. The assessment used a participatory approach were a cross
section of stakeholders such as community members; technical personnel in the respective LGs,
private firms and CSOs were consulted. Scheduled interviews with households, focused group
discussions and interviews were also used.

The survey collected data to assess six thematic areas: (i) awareness about LGDP II; (ii) access to
services; (iii) beneficiary participation in decision making; (iv) quality of service delivery;
(v) capacity building; and (vi) good governance.

The findings revealed that overall 22% of the respondents had ever heard about services under
LGDP II in their sub-county and more than 50% of the respondents admitted that at least one
member of their household had accessed facilities provided under LGDP II. There was also
evidence of considerable representation of political leaders and councilors (48%) in decision-
making. In communities where special interest groups were involved in decision making, the
disabled were most represented (19%) followed by women 14%) and then youth (10%). Overall,
63% of the households' surveyed were satisfied with LGDP II modalities. Satisfaction with the
LGDP II modalities was highest for the education sector (69%) and lowest with roads (54%).

When asked to identify the best service provider, households, in general perceived that the
government was the best service provider (34%) compared to CBOs (1%). Around 63% of the
households were of the view that the performance of LGs had improved greatly due to the
implementation of LGDP II projects. Less than 10% of the communities reported that the
performance of the LGs had worsened. With respect to information flows -- respondents
revealed that most of the community members learnt about decisions through village meetings
(56%). Majority of the key informants at the lower LGs indicated that flow of funds has
improved. About 90% of the LLGs reported that they were satisfied with the way the LGDP II
funds were utilized.

The survey concluded that a number of improvements could be made to LGDP especially in areas
of planning and budgeting. The survey made a number of recommendations which will inform
the implementation of the successor operation under the proposed LGMSD project.




                                               33

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

NA




                                  34

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Note: Component costs in this Annex reflect total disbursements which include co-financing and
therefore do not match those in Annex 1, Table (a) column 3.

1.      Introduction

Government of Uganda implemented the Second Local Government Development Programme
(LGDP II) over a four-year period from 2003-2007. LGDP II deepened the processes for
decentralized governance in Uganda through strengthening institutions and systems for
devolution of power and functions such as planning, financial management and procurement. It
principally sought to support Government Decentralization Policy while ensuring financial
viability of investments through more robust operational and maintenance systems; increase
administrative capacity through a demand-driven and largely private sector led approach; and
develop alternative modalities for increasing Local Government own revenue growth.

The programme was implemented through five (5) mutually re-enforcing components: (i) support
for the decentralization process, which included among others sub-components on support to the
Fiscal Decentralization Strategy (FDS); (ii) Annual Performance assessment and the Joint Annual
Review of Decentralization; (iii) Local Development Grants, Capacity Building Grants; (iv)
Local Government Revenue Enhancement; and (v) Support to Programme Management and
Coordination. LGDP-II was financed by IDA, DANIDA, Netherlands Government, Austria
Development Cooperation, Republic of Ireland, Government of Uganda and the Local
Governments.

2.      Background to the LGDP II

LGDP II is successor to the first Local Government Development Programmme, which
commenced in October 2000 and sought, among others, to test the feasibility of implementing
constitutional and legal mandates with respect to service provision and devolution of the
development budget, and build the capacity of the Ministry of Local Government, the Local
Government Finance Commission (LGFC) and Local Governments. LGDP II on the other hand,
was designed to incorporate lessons learnt from LGDP I while scaling up the programme to the
national level. It sought to improve the delivery of basic services and make a contribution to
economic growth and well being of the population as mandated by the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan (PEAP). The major challenges that formed the design premise for LGDP II were
identified at the LGDP I Mid-Term review and they included issues to do with more commitment
to sustainability of investments, efficiency in utilization of the capacity building grants and the
broadening of Local Government own revenue sources and collection methods. Arising out of
these needs, LGDP II was designed on a number of principles:

    i)       Support to Decentralization Policy and coordination of various initiatives.
    ii)      Ensuring financial viability of investments.
    iii)     Enhancing Local Government discretionary powers to plans, budget and executed
             related procedure.
    iv)      Building incentives for improving administrative performance.
    v)       Promoting ownership and participation through more conscious involvement of key
             stakeholders.
    vi)      Improving LG administrative capacity through a demand-driven and private sector-
             led capacity building approach.



                                                 35

3.      Project Objective

Project Development Objective was to improve Local Government Institutional Performance for
Sustainable Decentralized Service Delivery.

4.      Project Components and Objectives

LGDP-II was implemented through 5 components. These components were:

    i)       Support for the decentralization process: - to provide support for better coordination
             of the decentralization process and strengthen the coordination role of MoLG through
             capacity building.
    ii)      Local Development Grants: - to increase non-sectoral development grants transferred
             to the LGs in a timely and transparent manner.
    iii)     Capacity Building Grants: - to enhance LG capacity to fulfill their service delivery
             mandates.
    iv)      Local Government Revenue Enhancement: -to enhance the capacity of LGs to
             administer their own sources of revenue in order to achieve and sustain acceptable
             levels of service delivery and ensure that operational and maintenance costs of the
             investments are properly addressed.
    v)       Support to Programme Management and Coordination: - to provide support to the
             programme coordination unit (PCU) in the overall programme implementation.

5.      Project Management

As a shift from the LGDP I mode of operation, the management responsibility for LGDP II was
shared amongst the mainstream MoLG and a Programme Coordination Unit. Component and
sub-component managers spearheaded the day-to-day oversight of the programme while the PCU
oversaw the development and capacity building grant transfers in addition to providing general
oversight and coordination.      Administratively the Coordinator of the PCU reported to the
Permanent Secretary but for programming matters, the PCU was responsible to the Programme
Technical Committee (PTC). The PTC is an institutionalized and strong multidisciplinary team
comprising Central Government (ministries), representatives of the Professional Engineers,
Private Contractors, select LGs and the National NGO Forum. The Director, Local Government
Administration and Inspection chaired the PTC. To broaden participation of other LG managers
and programme implementers, the PTC met quarterly on a rotational and regional basis. The
PTC was responsible to the Programme Steering Committee comprising of the Permanent
Secretaries of the ministries of Gender, Labour and Social Development, Office of the Prime
Minister, Local Government and that of Finance and Economic Development who is also the
Secretary to Treasury.

6.      Project Cost and Financing

The project was adequately financed.       This included an outstanding contribution for Local
Development Grant from GoU of 15.4 mill US$ which is 9.5% percentage over and above the
total project cost. The Local Development and Capacity Building Grants were 100% disbursed to
the Local Governments. Contingencies and savings made out of the SDR appreciation were used
to finance the programme extension July-Dec 2007 and it is unlikely that substantial amounts of
money (currently estimated at only 300'000 US$) will not be absorbed.



                                                 36

Table 1: Project Cost by Component (in US Dollar)

  Item                  Component            Budget      Actual       Actual vs    Percentage
                                                                       Budget        of total

     1      Support to Decentralization          23.60     33.61           142.4         18.49
            Reforms

     2      Local Development Grants           107.58      118.8           110.4         65.37
            (LDG)

     3      Capacity Building Grants              15.3     14.66            97.7          8.07
            (CBG)
     4      Local Revenue Enhancement             12.1      8.15            67.4          4.48

     5      Programme Co-ordination and           6.80      6.52            95.9          3.59
            Monitoring
            TOTAL                              160.08     181.74           110.1        100.00
Source: PCU, MoLG Finance Office
Note: In FY 2006/2007, GoU contributed a total of US$15.4 million to the Local Development Grant.
This amount was not previously budgeted for under the programme and represents 9.5% of the project cost.



                                                  Budget Million US$
 Item Component IDA              DANIDA   RNE      AUSTRIA IRELAND             GOU       TOTAL


         Supp to Dec       20.8       1.8                                            1       23.6

         Loc Dev Gr        75.3               15                          7.5     9.78    107.58

         CBG               11.8       0.6                 0.3                       2.3       15

         Rev Enh           10.9                                                     1.2      12.1
         Prog Cood          6.2                                                     0.6       6.8
          TOTAL            125        2.4     15          0.3             7.5    14.88    165.08

         % of Total       75.72      1.45   9.09         0.18            4.54     9.01    100.00
Source: PCU Finance Office


7.       Project Results

Major achievements include the following:

     Planning has improved in LLGs such that 84% of them got a reward in planning in 2006
         national assessment as opposed to 76% in 2004.
     For the first time an Urban Planning Guide was prepared.               It contains simplified
         provisions of the Town and Country Planning Act.
     100% of Municipalities and Town Councils are using the UPG.
     A total of 189 (95%) Districts and Urban Councils officials (both technical and political)
         were trained in the use of the UPG.
     A total of 103 townships were approved to become Town Boards as at the beginning of
         December 2007.
     Structure and detailed plans for 76 urban councils were prepared and approved for
         implementation by the Town and Country Planning Board.
     The Town and Country Planning Act 1964 was revised. A draft Physical Planning Bill is
         before cabinet.



                                                37

 The Information, Education and Communication Strategy was prepared. Trained 56
  District Information Officers in the use of the Communication guide.
 Contributed to the preparation of the new Local Government (Public Procurement and
  Disposal of Assets) Regulations 2006 [LG(PPAR)].
 A total of 314 members of the HLGs contracts committees were trained on the guidelines
  to operationalise the LG (PPAR) Regulations 2006.
 Successfully carried out JARD on an annual and timely basis i.e. in 2004, 2005, 2006 and
  2007. A total of 5 JARD workshops were held using funding from LGDP-II.
 The formulation of the Decentralization Strategic Policy Framework (DSPF), the
  formulation of the LG Sector Implementation Plan (LGSIP), the formulation of the
  National Capacity Building Policy.
 The Decentralization Sector Working Group (DSWG) was established and became
  operational as part of the LGDP-II interventions.
 LGDP-II provided support to the implementation of the restructuring programme for the
  LGs;
 A total of 896 LLGs were audited for financial year 2003/04 and 2002/03.
 LGDP II supported the development and implementation of the audit strategy for LGs for
  the sustainability of the audit function in LGs.
 The Institutional Integrated Plan (IIP), which was developed under LGDP-II is being
  implemented by the Ministry of Local Government.            Among the activities being
  implemented are: establishing tasks and functions in the appropriate departments of
  MoLG; over 80% of MoLG staff training was informed by the IIP; etc.
 Development of a Human Resource Development (HRD) course and roll out to all HLGs
  (56 Districts & 13 Municipal Councils) and rolled it to 56 districts and 13 Municipal
  Councils.
 Increase in the LGs discretionary development grant was realized over the project period
  - September 2003 - December 2007) making a total of shs.218, 573,930,985 or 100% d
    In 2003/04 shs.54, 746,064,393/= was disbursed to LGs;
    In 2004/05 shs.54, 268,261,000/= was disbursed to LGs giving an increase of 0.87%
    (from 2003/04);
    In 2005/06 shs.52, 973,609,000/= was disbursed to LGs which is an increase of 2.39%
    (from 2004/05);
    In 2006/07 shs.56, 585,996,592/= was disbursed to LGs which gave an increase of
    6.82%.
 15,916 projects were implemented in various sectors:
    525 projects in Administration (e.g. construction of offices, purchase of chairs and
    desks).
    3,191 projects in Education (mainly purchase of desks, construction of classrooms and
    staff houses).
    1,490 projects in Health (e.g. construction of Health Centres and staff houses, purchase
    of bicycle ambulances, beds and mattresses).
    2,6476 projects in Production (e.g. construction of valley dams and animal water
    troughs, seed multiplication like cassava, vanilla and colonial coffee, exotic goats, fish
    farming, apiaries/beekeeping).
    4,500 projects in roads (e.g. road construction, drainage, construction of bridges and
    installing of culverts, street lights).
    193 solid waste projects (such as purchase of garbage skips, construction of garbage
    bunkers).




                                            38

         3,371 projects in water and sanitation (e.g. protection of springs, construction of
         shallow wells and boreholes, water tanks, valley tanks, construction of pit latrines and
         water borne toilets).
    All the HLGS (100%) prepared a three year rolling Capacity Building Plan (CBP).
    77 HLGs (67 districts and 10 Municipal Councils) implemented gender related training
       courses.
    A total of 260,089 participants were trained of which 215,039 were males and 45,050
       females. Hence of those trained 17% were females.
    A total of 12,857 LGs technical staff were trained (11,544 males and 1,313 females).
    The Local Governments (Rating) Act 2005 was revised, passed by Parliament and
       disseminated to 80 districts, 13 Municipal Councils and 92 Town Councils.
    An amendment to Property Tax Regulations to exempt owner occupiers was drafted and
       passed by Parliament and disseminated to 80 districts, 13 Municipal Councils and 92
       Town Councils.
    A property rating handbook was prepared, printed and disseminated to 80 districts, 13
       Municipalities and 92 Town Councils.
    A training module for property rates was prepared, printed and disseminated to 80
       districts, 13 Municipal Councils and 92 Town Councils.
    Property valuation was carried out by 13 Municipal Councils, 60 Districts and 85 Town
       Councils.

8.     Major Implementation Issues Encountered

The LGDP II remained largely on course throughout its implementation.            Nonetheless, its
implementation coincided with major policy reforms and these affected the pace and quality of
implementation. These include:

   i)      Political pronouncements on and subsequent abolition of Graduated Tax as the
           mainstay for LG revenue impacted negatively on local revenue administration. This
           led to a change in the strategy to support revenue enhancement.
   ii)     The creation of new administrative units led to an-overstretch in existing capacities
           and this required intensive support in order to bring them to the required capacity
           thresholds.
   iii)    The change in public procurement and disposal of assets legal and institutional
           framework and systems led to delays in constituting the Contracts Committees (CCs)
           and the Procurement Disposal Units (PDUs). LGs did not realize 100% of CCs and
           40% of PDUs until 2007.
   iv)     Environmental Management and Mainstreaming met a number of constraints
           especially arising out of under funding and staffing inefficiencies at the District and
           not technical staff at the Lower Local Government levels.




                                                39

9.     Project Sustainability

Component                  Observation
Support                    This component had a number of sub-components that required
for the                    different sustainability strategies. The policy framework for capacity
decentralization           building, support to FDS implementation, Tools such as HPPG, Urban
process.                   Planning    Guidelines,     support  to   LG     procurement    through
                           harmonization of legislation have been adequately institutionalized in
                           existing systems.
                           There are an outstanding sustainability issues with regard to other sub-
                           components such as the Annual Performance Assessments, the JARD
                           and the audit for Lower Local Government owing to the slow
                           implementation by the Office of the Audit General, of the Audit
                           Strategy.
Local Development          This promises to be a highly sustainable initiative. The transfer of
Grants                     Local Development Grants (LDGs) to LGs now follows the LGDP
                           model arising out of Government instruction in 2002/2003. MoFPED
                           has included LDGs as part of the MTEF and the Annual budgets and
                           transfers since FY 2006/2007.
Capacity Building          The sustainability strategy for the grants follows that of the LDG.
Grants                     Various universities and academic institutions on the other hand have
                           adopted the Generic Training Modules as the basis for developing
                           various modules and courses in Local Governance
Local Government           Improved Local Revenue policies and legislation such as Property
Revenue                    Rating law, the Local Service and Hotel Taxes (now before Cabinet)
Enhancement and            and strengthened local revenue systems will ensure more sustainable
                           revenue source for the LGs.
Programme                  The gradual implementation of the mainstreaming strategy and transfer
Management and             of responsibilities from PCU to the mainstream ministry, will ensure
Coordination               the progressive building of the capacity of the Component Managers.

10.    Key Lessons Learnt

   i)      Programme designs that are based on existing institutions have a higher success rate
           but only if such institutions are supported and strengthened in an in-built dedicated
           initiative.
   ii)     The design of a major programme such as LGDP II requires a number of separate
           sub-components and activities. However, the pace of implementation needs to be
           carefully synchronized with the capacity requirements of the implementing agencies.
           If not well harmonized, the programme could suffer major delays in implementation.
   iii)    Policy coordination is quite essential in order not to undermine on-going programmes.
           For example:
            The abolition of the Tender Boards without immediate and quick plans to appoint
                and train the contracts committee led to delays in LG procurement.
            The high academic requirements for key LG positions led to staff absences as
                they tried to acquire higher qualifications in readiness for the restructuring.
                Equally important is the staffing gap imposed on the LGs by the exercise itself.
   iv)     Harmonious relations between the Local Government Councils are a good proxy for
           improved performance and therefore should not always be presumed to happen.




                                                 40

    v)       Over reliance on Information systems in a country where the majority lack basic ICT
             skills negates programme design and implementations.       Consideration of hybrid
             systems is key to programme implementation.

11.      Bank Performance

Design
The design of LGDP II was quite adequate but the menu was too varied and spread out and this
posed a problem during implementation.

Implementation
The Bank provided and instrumental partnership in the implementation of LGDP II in terms of
flexibility, as evidenced in the constant review of the PIP to accommodate new thinking and
internal budget revisions, and agreeing to review and reschedule Component 4 (revenue) in light
of the political and implementation constraints.

Reviews and Supervision
Bank supervision and implementation reviews were quite adequate and regular. It took the form
of hands-on support without necessarily interfering with the day-to-day management of the
programme. The Bank provided technical guidance on new initiatives.

Procurement
The Bank, through regular procurement reviews, provided support to the PCU. Nonetheless, the
realization and support for the outstanding procurement anomalies was not matched with timely
commensurate support - which only came in the final year of the programme.

Financial Management
The Bank performed quite well in this area through regular budget reviews and updates on the
SDR and US dollar relativity. It gave advice on the utilization of the gains made through out of
the SDR appreciation.

12.      Borrower's Performance

Design
The design of LGDP II was commonly agreed between the Bank and GoU. Nonetheless the
design was constrained by having too may sub-activities and under the management of managers
who were "learning by doing." This led to a number of delays and constraints on the
implementers.

Implementation
Major implementation successes were registered in continuing components such as the LDG and
CBG. The Borrower experienced challenges in implementing Component 4 and some activities
in component 1.

Procurement
The borrower had mixed successes in this area.         Procurement systems at the PCU were
constrained by inadequate records management systems, which was later addressed. On the other
hand, LG outreach support and the management of major contracts were very successful.




                                                41

Financial Management
Internal financial administrative systems were rated highly by the Bank and the contributing
partners. The programme supported the institutionalization of LLG audit through support to the
Office of the Auditor General through hire of staff and equipping the regional offices.
Disbursements were based on scientific yardsticks based on performance assessments and they
were largely regular. The programme was able to get unqualified audit reports for the 4 years of
the programme period.

13.     Conclusion

Against this backdrop, it can be concluded that LGDP II largely met its development objectives
of; "Improving Local Government Institutional Performance for Sustainable Decentralized
Service Delivery." In particular, the project deepened the processes of planning, financial
management, procurement and monitoring and mentoring. Through the institutionalization of the
JARD process in 2004 and the subsequent years, LGDP II made landmark achievements by
supporting the first ever joint annual review on decentralization which, in turn led to major policy
processes such as the formulation of the Decentralization Policy Strategic Framework and the
Local Government Sector Investment Plan. LGDP II continues to be seen by LGs as the only
programme that gives sufficient flexibility and discretion in the use of financial transfers as based
on specific LG plan.

The need to consolidate the gains made under LGDP II through adopting a more holistic
investment approach is pertinent. Existing and uncompleted service delivery units need to be
completed. The design of LGDP to respond to Uganda's policy direction was a major advantage
in keeping the programme relevant and visible amongst key stakeholders.




                                                42

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Note: These comments were provided by the co-financiers on a draft of the ICR and are
reproduced here as received. Where appropriate, these comments have been incorporated in this
final version. Page numbers in the comments below do not correspond with the text in this final
version of the ICR. Some of the concerns raised in the comments below are broader sector issues
which are beyond the limited mandate of LGDP II as a project.

(Joint comments from Netherlands, DANIDA, Irish Aid and Austria)

Overall the report is appreciated as a good and well drafted summary report highlighting the
progress of LGDP II implementation over time and reflects objective assessment of achieved
progress.

Strategic level

1. The Project context, development objectives & design (sector background?): if the WB's ICR
    format allows, an executive summary to provide the reader with a quick overview of the key
    developments/changes in the decentralisation sub-sector focusing on the situation analysis
    when LGDP II started and now when it is ended could be included. This is also in view of
    the PS MoLG's concern during the last DSWG meeting that decentralisation reports that are
    global should endeavour to document in summary the key strategic developments attained
    and emerging trends in the sub-sector. The summary should also indicate whether LGDP II
    has had a direct influence on these issues.

2. Uganda has adopted a Joint Assistance Strategy, linked to the PEAP as its national
    development framework. The links between the project's results and the LGSIP CRM, as
    well as the PEAP policy & results matrix should be highlighted more explicitly in the LGDP
    II draft ICR. (ref pg7, 3.1). In a way this would provide insight on how the project has or has
    not promoted the enhancement of harmonisation and alignment to ensure coordination,
    complementarity and coherence of the sub-sector development activities. Further to this, it
    has been highlighted that sectors and the decentralisation system needs to work much closer
    together, in particular to address systemic issues such as staffing and other HR issues, LG
    financing, CB and inspection (i.e. the role of decentralisation system vis--vis sector
    effectiveness).

Operational issues

Pg5. 2.3 (b) Local Government Performance assessment: the LG assessment was overtime
improved to include sector indicators to assess functionality of education, health, water and
sanitation, works, production, environment and natural resources departments thereby enhancing
a holistic approach to LG performance including the cross cutting issues.

Pg 6, safeguards (environment)
Although environmental issues are addressed in LGDP II and in this report, it is not clear why
other cross-cutting issues are not in any way addressed, whereas we know that HIV/AIDS and
gender are crucial factors that influence heavily on the attainment of poverty reduction and
sustainable development objectives (a key focus of the Ugandan PEAP and an overall goal for
many donors in supporting developing countries).
Pg 6, item 2.5: Post completion operations/next phase.



                                                43

Somehow the importance of the LGSIP as an instrument for enhancement of effectiveness and
impact of the sub-sector resources, including the donor contributions seems not to come out here.
The opportunity provided by the LGSIP to develop consolidated workplans and budgets for the
sub-sector, as well as to develop an appropriate overall sub-sector institutional set-up, focus,
resource triggers and a suitable M&E system (performance tracking & agreed KPIs) shall
continue to be missed if it is not highlighted and utilised. In order to further enhance the
integration, the sector reports should reflect overall progress in the sector rather than narrowing
the focus on activities funded by different donor agencies.

Pg10, 3.2.4 (activity 1) Can we indicate the number of LGs that were targeted for the approval
and rolling out of valuation rolls to reflect the degree of progress.

Pg 11, 3.2.4, activity 3: strengthening local revenue systems.
Questions were many times raised on the "return on investments" on funds provided to LGs for
"seed capital" for revenue enhancement. If this was satisfactorily addressed, the report could
specify how this was addressed in order to strengthen the achievements and assessment in this
area.

Pg12, 3.4. the three KPIs referred to could be specified to improve clarity.

Pg 13, item b: institutional change.
It may be early to meaningfully establish whether the restructuring measures undertaken at
MoLG and LGs' level have created actual change in efficiency and effectiveness yet. This is a
start in the process that requires additional resources (human and finances). And it is too early to
classify the results as "strengthened". This also relates to the recently publicised ULGA/Local
Government Denmark report on "Development of a Framework for M&E of future JARDs"
which highlights various weaknesses in the subsector M&E system and provides proposals to
strengthen them.

Pg 13, item c, bullet 2: LGSWG.
Despite considerable progress in coordination and harmonization, for some reasons, a number of
donors still prefer project aid modality. This should still be reflected in the report. The DSWG is
also not yet fully functional. Therefore, coordination and harmonisation is still not fully attained,
but it's the objective for the sub-sector.

Pg 16, item 6.1: continuity and convergence of Bank & other DPs.
Support for decentralisation in Uganda started earlier than 1997 (1994 with Danida support to the
MoLG/Decentralisation Secretariat - tasked with setting-up the legal and later administrative
frameworks for decentralisation reform).

Among other lessons learnt, we could reflect on the development and implementation of activities
in the LOGSIP as the guiding framework for support to decentralisation. This has enhanced
focused discussion on strategic issues and priorities for the sub-sector and the attempt to
consolidate the WPs and reporting promotes a holistic overview/approach to decentralisation.




                                                   44

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1.     LGDP II Project Support Implementation Agreement between GoU and LGs

  2.     LGDP II Development Financing Agreement

  3.     Implementation Status and Results Reports

  4.     Project Aide Memoires

  5.     Project Appraisal Documents

  6.     Survey to assess beneficiary participation and accountability under LGDP II and
         baseline for LGMSD - UBoS January 2008

  7.     LGDP II Social Impact Assessment - K2-Consult (U) Ltd; July 25, 2006

  8.     Economic Evaluation Report for LGDP II by Ephrem Asebe, February 2008

  9.     LGDP II outputs and outcomes by component, MoLG December 2007

  10.    Technical and value for money audit of LGDP II supported districts - Final synthesis
         report, MoLG December 2007

  11.    Impact assessment of the LG capacity building service provision 2002 - 2005;
         Capacity Building Unit, MoLG March 2006

  12.    LGDP II Mid Term Review Report, 2005

  13.    Annual assessment of minimum conditions and performance measures for LGs -
         Final National synthesis reports (2004 - 2006), MoLG

  14.    LGDP II Operational Manual for LGs; MoLG May 2004.

  15.    LGDP II Assessment manual for higher and lower LGs; MoLG, September 2006.

  16.    Decentralization Policy Strategic Framework; MoLG, November 2006

  17.    LG Sector Investment Plan (LoGSIP); MoLG, November 2006




                                            45

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 32245

                          30                                                                                          32                                                                                               34                                                                   36



                                                                                                             S       U     D              A       N
 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4


                                                                                                                                                                        Aringa
                                                                               R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                U G A N D A
                                                                           Koia                                                                                                                                                                                                LOCAL GOVERNMENT
                                                                   To                                           Moyo         To
                                                                   Yei                                                                                                        R.
                                                                              YUMBE                        MOYO             Juba

                                                                           Yumbe                            Laropi                   Achwa
                                                                        Koboko                             R.                  Oytino                                                                                                                                       DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME II
                                                                                                                 Adjumani                                         K I T G U M
                                                                                                                                             R.

                                                                                                    Nile                                                                                                                   R.
                                                                                Anyou     R.              ADJUMANI                                            Kitgum
                                                                                                                                       R.
                                                                                                                                                        Pager R.                                               K O TR. I D O
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kapeta
                                                                                                 t                                                                                                                                                                                                PRIMARY ROADS
                                                                       Arua                                                                                                                                                 Dopeth
                                                                                            Alber                                                                                                                                  Kotido
                                                                            ARUA                                           G U L U                                        P A D E R                                                                 R.                                            RAILROADS
                DEMOCRATIC                                                                                                                                             Agogo R.        Pader                                              Ngololapolon
                                                                                                                                    Gulu       N O R T H E R N                                                                                                                                    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES

                   REPUBLIC                                             Ora            R.                                                                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                 Aswa     R.                                                                                                                        M O R O T O
                                                                                       N E B B I                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
                OF CONGO                                            Paidha    Nebbi   Pakwach                                                                                                                                                                 Moroto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R.                                                         DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                       Nile                                                                    R.                        R.
                                                                                                                                                      R.                                  Achwa
                                                                                                             Victoria                                                                                     Okok                                    Omanimani                                       REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                             R.                                        Lira                                                    Lochoman
                                                                                                             Murchison                           Tochi                                                                                                           R.                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                 Falls    Karuma
                                                                                                                           Falls                     A P A C                    L I R A
                                                                                                                                                                    R.                                                 R.

 2                                                                                                                                                      Apac  Aroca                                                                                         Nakapiripiriti                                                                                   2
                                                                                                     M A S I N D I                                                                                    K A T A K W I
                                                                                                                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                                         Kwania                                                          Katakwi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Akokoroi
                                                                                                                                                                                      Kaberamaido            Lake                        NAKAPIRIPIRITI
                                                                              t                   Masindi                                                                                     Soroti      Salisbury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Opeta             Siti
                                                                      Alber                Kigorobya
                                                                                                                                            NAKASONGOLA                         KABERAMAIDO
                                                                                                                                                                                        S O R O T I                  Kumi                                    R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0                50                 100               150
                                                                                Hoima                                                                             Lake Kyoga
                                                              Lake                                                                                                                                           K U M I                                 Kapchorwa
                                                                         HOIMA                            Kafu                 Nakasongola
                                                                                                               R.                                                                                                                           KAPCHORWA                                                       KILOMETERS

                                                      Buhuka                                                                                                                                     EASTERN                                 Sironko
                                                                                              Mpongo                                                                                      Lake
                                                              Nkusi   R.                                                                                                                Nakuwa   Pallisa PALLISA                       SIRONKO                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                         Kitoma               R.        KIBOGA                                                              KAMULI                                                   Mbale                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown

                                                                     K I B A L E      Nkoko                                                                                 Kamuli                                                                                              on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                  Kiboga                                                                                                            MBALE
                                                                                                                                   Mayanja L U W E R O             Kayunga                                                                                                      judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R.
                                                                              Kibale               Kitumbi                                              Luwero                                                                                                                  acceptance of such boundaries.
                               BUNDIBUGYO                                                                                                                                                                   TORORO
                                                                                                              R.                                        Wobulenzi                         IGANGA
                   Bundibugyo                                       Muzizi                                       CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tororo                 akhaka
                                                         Kyenjojo                                                                         R.                                     JINJA                     Bugiri-                            Lw
                                       Fort Portal                          R.               Mubende                                           Bombo                Bujagali     Nile  Buwenge           Naluwerere
                                   KABAROLE          K Y E N J O J O                                                                                                                            Iganga
                                                                                                  M U B E N D E                              Wakiso                   Falls          R.                                             To Bungoma
                             W E S T E R N                                                                                                                     MUKONO                                  BUGIRI
                                                                                                                                                                                               Mayuge                              Busia
                                                                                                     R.                                                       Mukono       Lugazi       Jinja
                                                                                                                        Mityana                                                             MAYUGE
                                                                                       Nabakazi                                                                                   Nieru                                   BUSIA
                        Kasese                        R.                                                                                                   Kampala     Nkokonjeru                                                             K E N Y A
                                               Mpanga     Katonga R.                                                            Mpigi

                      KASESE                         Kamwenge                                                     M P I G I                 WAKISO
                                                         Rusangwe            SEMBABULE                                                                Entebbe
 0                  Katwe             KAMWENGE                                                     Kyogya                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                      Lake                                      Sembabule
                   Kabatooro         George      Ibanda                                 R.

                                                                 R.                                       MASAKA
                                                        MBARARA
   Lake                                                                          Kokinga                        Masaka                      Kalangala
 Edward         RUKUNGIRIBUSHENYI       R.                            Lyantonde
                                                                                       R.
                                    Bushenyi                                     Kaku
                                                         Mbarara                          Lake                                              KALANGALA
              AK                                Ruizi       R.                     Kijanebalola

                             Ntungu                                             Kyotera                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UGANDA
                                                                                               Rakai
    To          Rukungiri
Rutshuru     UN                                                                            R A K A I                                                  L a k e           V i c t o r i a
            N                                                       Lake
                   Kanungu            Ntungamo                     Nakivali
           UG                 NTUNGAMO



   To   KISORO        KABALE
Rutshuru        Kisoro      Kabale
                                                                                                                                T A N Z A N I A
      To Ruhengeri

           R W A N D A
                         30                                                                                           32                                                                                               34                                                                   36

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MARCH 2003

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33504R2


                                                                                                                                                                      UGANDA

                                                                                                                                        DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                                          DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                   UGANDA                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                        RIVERS

                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                     30E                                                                                       32E                                                                                                                  34E
                                           0             25      50         75         100 Kilometers                                          S U D A N

                                           0                   25             50               75 Miles                                 To
                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                        Juba
                                                                                                                                        Juba
                                                                                   To
                                                                                   To
 4N                                                                            Faradje
                                                                                Faradje                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4N



                                                                                                                        MoyoMoyo
                                                                                              YUMBE
                                                                                              YUMBE                                                                                                                                               KAABONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KAABONG                                    K E N Y A
                                                                       KOBOKO
                                                                       KOBOKO                     Yumbe  umbe                                                         KITGUM
                                                                                                                                                                      KITGUM                                                                      KaabongKaabong
                                                                      KobokoKoboko                                            AdjumaniAdjumani                                 KitgumKitgum
                                                                     MarachaMaracha                              MOYO
                                                                              MARACHA
                                                                              MARACHA                            Nile                                                                                                                 KOTIDO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KOTIDO
                                                                                  AruaArua                            ADJUMANI                                                       PADER
                                                                                                                                                                                       ADER             Va l l e y
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Va                                                             KotidoKotido                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lodwar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lodwar
                                                                                       ARUA
                                                                                       ARUA                Albert                   KilakKilak GULU
                                                                                                                                               GULU              Achwa                R i f t                                    ABIM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ABIM                         Okok
                                                                                              Ora                                                      GuluGulu
                                                                                                                      AMURUAMURU                               G r e a t                                                            AbimAbim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MorotoMoroto
               DEM. REP.
               DEM. REP                                                        NebbiNebbi
                                                                                             NEBBI
                                                                                             NEBBI                          Nile                       OYAMOYAM                               LIRA
                                                                                                                                                                                              LIRA                                                                Lochoman
             OF CONGO
             OF CONGO                                                                                            Victoria
                                                                                                                                                        OyamOyam                    LiraLira                                                                       MOROTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MOROTO
                                                                                                          BulisaBulisa                                                                                              AMURIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AMURIA
                                                                                                                                                                 APAC
                                                                                                                                                                 APAC                                                                               KATAKWI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KA AKWI
 2N                                                                                                                                                             ApacApac          DOKOLO
                                                                                                                                                                                   DOKOLO                                        AmuriaAmuria         KatakwiKatakwi                  NakapiripiritNakapiripirit         2N
                                                        To
                                                        To                                      BULISA
                                                                                                BULISA                   MASINDI
                                                                                                                         MASINDI                                                      DokoloDokolo
                                                       Beni
                                                       Beni                                                                                              Lake                                                                                        Lake                     NAKAPIRIPIRIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NAKAPIRIPIRIT
                                                                                                                                                        Kwania                                KaberamaidoKaberamaido                                                   Lake
                                                                               AlbertHoima                                                                                                                                                         Salisbury
                                                                                                                         MasindiMasindi                        AMOLA
                                                                                                                                                               AMOLATAR KABERA-                                                                                       Opeta
                                                                                                                                                                                    KABERA-
                                                                                                                                                               AmolatarAmolatar                              SorotiSoroti                                                          Siti
                                                                                                                                                                                     MAIDO
                                                                                                                                                                                     MAIDO                                                                    KumiKumi               KAPCHORW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KAPCHORWA
                                                                                             Hoima                                                                  Lake Kyoga                          SOROTI
                                                                                                                                                                                                        SOROTI
                                                                      Lake                                                                                                                                                           KUMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KUMI                                             KapchorwaKapchorwa
                                                                                       HOIMA
                                                                                       HOIMA                      Kafu                    NAKASONGO
                                                                                                                                           NakasongolaNakasongola L                                                                                                                         BUKWO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BUKWO
                                                                                                                                                                   A                                                PALLISA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALLISA                                                   SironkoSironko
                                                                           Nkusi                                                                                                      KAMULI
                                                                                                                                                                                      KAMULI                                          PallisaPallisa                                                   BukwoBukwo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SIRONKOSIRONKO
                                                                                                                 KIBOGA
                                                                                                                 KIBOGA         NAKASEKE
                                                                                                                                NAKASEKE                                                                KALIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                        KALIRO                                    BudakaBudaka          MbaleMbale    Mt. Elgon (4321 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mt. Elgon (4321 m)
                To
                To                                                              KIBAALE
                                                                                KIBAALE                                     KibogaKiboga                                   KAYUNG          KamuliKamuli             NAMU-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NAMU-
               Bunia
               Bunia          BUNDIBUGYOBUNDIBUGYO                                                                                                                              GAA                     KaliroKaliro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TUMBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TUMBA                                                                      MANAPWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MANAPW
                                                     For
                                                     Fort                                    KibaleKibale                                                      LuweroLuwero                                                                        Butaleja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Butaleja             BubuloBubulo                    BUDAKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BUDAKA
                      BundibugyoBundibugyo PortalPortal    ROLE                                                                         NakasekeNakaseke LUWERO
                                                                                                                                                         LUWERO                                                                   BusikiBusiki
                                                                       KyenjojoKyenjojo                                                                                             KayungaKayunga IGANGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                       IGANGA                                                                                MBALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MBALE
                                                                                                          MubendeMubende                                                                                                                              Tororo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ororo                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                            JINJA
                                                                                                                                                                                            JINJA                                                                                     TORORO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TORORO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             IgangaIganga                         BugiriBugiri                                                    Nakuru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Nakuru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BusiaBusia       BUTALEJA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUTALEJA
            Margherita Peak
            Margherita Peak                                                                                                              MityanaMityana                    MukonoMukono           JinjaJinja
                 (5110 m)
                 (5110 m)                              KABAKAMWENGE  KYENJOJO
                                                                     KYENJOJO                             MUBENDE
                                                                                                          MUBENDE               MITYANA
                                                                                                                                MITYANA Wakiso          akiso

                                                          KAMWENGE                                                                       KAMPALA
                                                                                                                                          KAMPALA                                                                                                     BUSIABUSIA
                                     KASESE
                                     KASESE                      KamwengeKamwenge                                                                                KAMPALA
                                                                                                                                                                 KAMPALA
                              KaseseKasese                                                                                                MpigiMpigi
                                                                     Katonga
                                                                      atonga                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                            MPIGI
                                                                                                                            MPIGI                                                                                                                                                  Kisumu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kisumu
                                 Lake
 0                       George                          IBANDA
                                                          IBANDA                                          SembabuleSembabule                   WAKISO  AKISO                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                     KIRUHURA
                                                                     KIRUHURA
                                                               IbandaIbanda                  SEMBABULE            MASAKA
                                                                                                                  MASAKA                                                                                             MAM
                Lake                                                                                                                                                                  MUKONO
                                                                                                                                                                                      MUKONO
                                    BUSHENYI
                                    BUSHENYI                           KiruhuraKiruhura                                 MasakaMasaka
                                                                                                                                               KalangalaKalangala                                                                     BUGIRIBUGIRI
To
To             EdwardRUK RU
                           KUUNGIRIRI      BushenyiBushenyi                                                                                                                                                             AYYUGEUGE                                                              K E N Y A
Beni
Beni                                                           MBARARA
                                                               MBARARA
                                                       MbararaMbarara
                                                                                                RakaiRakai                                    KALANGALA
                                                                                                                                              KALANGALA
            KANUNGU
            KANUNGU                                                          IsingiroIsingiro

                     KanunguKanunguRukungiriRukungiri    Ntungamo
                                                         Ntungamo                                        RAKAI
                                                                                                         RAKAI
                                                                           ISINGIRO
                                                                           ISINGIRO
                                          NTUNGAMO
                                          NTUNGAMO

             KISOROKISORO   KABALE
                            KABALE                                                                                                            Lake                                  Victoria
                         KisoroKisoro   KabaleKabale
 amoGGomaoT                                                                  TANZANIA
                                                                                ANZANIA
                                                     To
                                                     To                                                      To
                                                                                                             To                                                                                                                                      TANZANIA   ANZANIA
                                            Kigali
                                            Kigali                                                       Nyakanazi
                                                                                                         Nyakanazi
                  RWANDARWANDA                                                                                                  32E                                                                                                                  34E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OCTOBER 2007

