Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19459
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Loan 3534-GU)
June 28, 1999
Human and Social Development Department (LCHSD)
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guatemalan Quetzal (Q)
Average Exchange Rates
1992 Q5.2205 = US$1.00
1993 Q5.7300 = US$1.00
1994 Q5.6952 = US$1.00
1995 Q5.8731 = US$1.00
1996 Q6.0281 = US$1.00
1997 Q6.0306 = US$1.00
1998 Q6.5319 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BCIE           Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
COEDUCA        Parents Education Committee
EFIS           Social Investment Fund Enterprise
EML            Economic Modernization Loan
FES            Panama Social Emergency Fund (Fondo de Emnergencia Social)
FIS            Guatemala Social Investment Fund (Fondo de.Inversi6n Socia)
FISE           Nicaragua Social Investment Emergency Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social de Emergencia)
FHIS           Honduras Social Investment Fund (Fondo Hondureno de Inversi6n Social)
FODIGUA        Guatemalan Indigenous Development Fund
FONAPAZ        National Peace Fund
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
INFOM          Municipal Development Institute
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
KfW            German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
MAGA           Ministry of Agriculture
MCTOP          Ministry of Communication, Transport, and Public Works
MOE            Ministry of Education
MOH            Ministry of Health and Social Assistance
OECF           Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OPEC           Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
NGO            Nongovernmental Organization
OSC            Organization of Civil Society
POC            Community Organization Program
PRONADE        National Comrmunity Management Program fcr Educational Development
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SIAS           Local Integrated Health Care System
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF         United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
URNG           Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity
WFP            World Food Programme
Vice President  :      S. Javed Burki
Country Director:      Dorma Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director  :     Xavier Coll
Task Manager   :       Juliana Weissman



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Page
PREFACE ................................................ iv
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................v
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT . ...............................................1
INTRODUCTION ................................................                                                                                     1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ................................................1
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...............................................2
Poverty Alleviation .................................................2
Other Social Objectives ................................................4
Environment ...............................................6
Social Sector Policies ................................................7
Public Sector Management ...............................................8
Institutional Development ................................................8
Project Design ................................................9
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ................................................ 0
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control .                              ............................................... 0
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control .                                ............................................... 0
Factors Generally Subject to FIS Control ................................................11
Changes in the Project Cost ...............................................                                                          12
Implementation Delays ...............................................                                                                12
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...............................................                                                                           13
IBRD PERFORMANCE ...............................................                                                                                14
Identification ...............................................                                                                       14
Preparation Assistance ......................                                                                                        14
Appraisal ......................                                                                                                     14
Supervision ......................                                                                                                   14
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................                                                                                                      15
Preparation ......................                                                                                                   1 5
Implementation ......................                                                                                                1 5
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................                                                                                                     17
FUTURE OPERATION ...................... 17
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................                                                                                                       18
PART TWO: STATISTICAL DATA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Loan 3534-GU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first Social Investment Fund (FIS)
Project in Guatemala, for which Loan 3534-GU in the amount of US$20 million was approved on
November 24, 1992, and made effective on March 28, 1994. Delays in effectiveness were due to former
President Serrano's "auto-coup" in 1993; slowness in completing a financing agreement with KfW, which
was a condition of loan effectiveness; and a delay in the approval by the Guatemalan Congress of foreign
loans for FIS.
The Loan was closed on March 31, 1999, compared with the original closing date of December 31,
1997. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on April 6, 1999. Cofinancing for the
project was provided by the Govemment of Germany through the German Credit Institute for
Reconstruction (KfW), the Govemment of Japan through the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC), the Govemment of Guatemala, and beneficiaries.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Anna Webb (consultant), with the help of Ms. Juliana Weissman,
Task Manager, LCSHD, of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, Ms. Patricia Orna and
Ms. Lerick Kebeck, LCSHD, comments were provided by Mr. Willem Struben and the report was reviewed
by Ms. Ana Maria Arriagada, Sector Leader, LCC2C. The borrower provided comments that are included
as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, in October 1998. The
ICR is based on the Loan Agreement, annual reviews, supervision reports, and other material in the project
file, in addition to discussions with the borrower. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
compiling statistical data, preparing an evaluation of the project's implementation, and commenting on the
draft ICR.



Evaluation Summary
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Loan 3534-GU)
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
Introduction
IBRD supported the establishment of the Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social - FIS)
under the first Social Investment Fund project (Loan 3534-GU) of US$20 million, as part of a two-pronged
effort to support the Government's program of economic modernization and poverty alleviation, in addition
to social sector policy reform programs. The Government has established several social funds, including the
FIS, to provide a social safety net and deliver programs quickly in the short term, while sectoral reforms
were being designed and implemented by the line ministries. IBRD will continue to support FIS under the
Second Social Investment Fund project of US$50 million, which was approved by the Board on November
12, 1998 and becamne effective on March 2, 1999, and will further support the Government's poverty
alleviation strategy and fulfillment of the Peace Accords.
Project Objectives
The project objectives were to help the Government: (a) create a means of responding flexibly and
efficiently to socio-economic needs as identified by poor local communities, with special focus on
indigenous communities and women's groups; (b) target scarce existing resources more effectively to
improve the health, nutrition, basic education, and income-earning potential of the poor; and (c) improve the
coverage and quality of basic health, nutrition, and education services while the line ministries were being
strengthened to better serve the rural population. The IBRD loan was also intended as a channel to mobilize
further international assistance. The project had three components: investment in social assistance, social
infrastructure, economic infrastructure, and productive activities subprojects; FIS administration; and
strengthening of subproject sponsoring and executing agencies.
The project objectives were important for the country and clearly matched the Government's social
sector policy to reduce poverty and increase social welfare. No modifications were made in project
objectives. The project was demanding for FIS because it was the first operation; FIS had to learn what a
social fund is, create an institution, and set up operating systems, procedures, and policies. The project was
complex because of FIS' mandate of national coverage of rural areas, a target population comprised of 23
distinct ethnolinguistic groups, the country's difficult topography, the weaknesses of the line ministries, and
the armed conflict. When FIS began operations in 1993, the conflict was ongoing; the Peace Accords were
signed on December 29, 1996.
Implementation Experience and Results
The achievement of project objectives was substantial, based on the extent to which planned
interventions were completed and on subproject results and benefits. From 1993 to October 1998, FIS



iii
approved financing of US$160.6 million for 7,997 sutbprojects in the country's 330 municipalities, according
to a poverty map that classified municipalities into five categories: extreme poverty, severe poverty,
medium poverty, relative poverty, and low poverty. From 1993 to 1997, FIS did not reach the planned
allocation to extreme poverty municipalities and exceeded that for relative poverty municipalities. Targeting
improved with the application of a new poverty map in 1998. From January to October 1998, FIS exceeded
the target allocation for extreme poverty municipa'lities, relative poverty municipalities, and low poverty
municipalities. Investments in severe and regular poverty municipalities were below planned targets. FIS'
moderate success in reaching the poorest communities may reflect the difficulty of access of many of the
poorest communities and the limited capacity of some to identify and prepare subprojects. Also, FIS
allocated funds to poor communities within relative and low poverty municipalities.
FIS achieved significant improvements in the quality and access to social services delivery: 3,611
social infrastructure and 3,305 social assistance subprojects were contracted between 1993 and October
1998. In addition, FIS financed 215 economic infrastructure subprojects and 184 community banks. Total
subproject beneficiaries numbered 11.4 million persons (some communities benefited from more than one
subproject), and subprojects generated about 782,000 months of temporary employment.
At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$80 million. FIS mobilized additional
financing, and by October 1998, US$178.4 million had been committed. The target for external funding was
US$56.7 million, including IBRD financing, compared to subsequent commitments of US$111.6 million
from IBRD and other multi- and bilateral donors. Through October 1998, disbursements were US$47.2
million, which suggests that the project cost of FIS was correctly appraised, although FIS' ability to attract
additional resources was underestimated. In addition to IBRD, financing sources included the Government
of Japan (OECF), the Government of Germany (KfW), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the Government of Guatemala, and beneficiaries.
The IBRD loan was to be disbursed over a period of three and one-half years. The project was
approved on November 24, 1992; signed on September 29, 1993; and became effective on March 28, 1994.
The original project closing date was December 31, 1997. The closing date was extended twice, to June 30,
1998; to compensate for initial implementation delays, and then to March 31, 1999, to permit the FIS to use
US$0.4 million, the undisbursed balance of the loan, for emergency relief efforts to alleviate the impact of
Hurricane Mitch.
The sustainability of FIS as an institution is likely, given the strength of the Government's
commitment and FIS' role in the fulfillment of the Peace Accords. However, FIS remains vulnerable due to
its reliance on the availability of external resources. New FIS legislation, including the extension of its
current mandate from May 31, 2001 to 2005 ha,s been prepared for congressional approval. Project
sustainability is also supported by the follow-on Second Social Investment Fund project financed by the
Bank and additional commitments from the IDB, K"fW and OPEC. The prospects for the sustainability of
some FIS subprojects is good because of agreements between FIS and line ministries. Subproject
sustainability is uncertain when it depends on community operations and maintenance capabilities because
the majority of beneficiary communities did not receive training. Community subproject sustainability
training has been incorporated in the second operation.
The key facters that had a positive effecl: on the achievement of the major objectives were the
signing of the Peace Accords and FIS' ability to att,act external financing, support innovative education and



iv
health sector programs, and outreach to poor communities. The Peace Accords raised expectations for FIS
to help meet the ensuing commitments, the Government pressured FIS to do so, and FIS' operational
efficiency rose appreciably. Through October 1998, FIS increased subproject investments by 100 percent
over the appraisal estimate through additional external parallel financing commitments. FIS' successful
outreach efforts to poor communities helped to build their confidence in FIS, improved subproject quality,
and increased the opportunities for participation by local organizations. The principal factors that had a
negative effect on project implementation were management inadequacies that were ultimately addressed,
deficient monitoring and evaluation, and the impact on FIS of two major reorganizations within a two-year
period.
The performance of IBRD was satisfactory. In hindsight, FIS would have benefited from more
technical supervision support to enhance its weak technical capacity and efficiency.  FIS' overall
implementation performance was satisfactory; there were moderate problems with implementation that
delayed, but did not forestall, the achievement of the major objectives. The project outcome was
satisfactory, given the achievement of project objectives and FIS' implementation performance.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The most important finding of the project implementation experience was that FIS' institttional
development was a function of management priorities, which varied and had a varying impact on operational
efficiency in each of 3 FIS administrations. The two major reorganizations within a two-year period
adversely affected operational efficiency but had a positive effect on FIS' ability to reach out to communities
and the larger society, which was achieved by the creation of the Community Organization Program and
decentralization to 21 departmental offices. The slowness of project implementation was not unique to FIS
but reflected in large part the difficulty of lending and implementing projects in Guatemala during the social
and economic turmoil of the early 1990s.
The Second Social Investment Fund project will support the FIS investment progran for the period
1999 to 2003. In particular, the project will support improvements in FIS policies and operations, especially
decentralization, contracting and supervision, environmental assessment procedures, women's participation,
and a comprehensive program of beneficiary training in social organization and operations and maintenance
of all completed infrastructure subprojects. Key performance indicators will monitor efficiency and equity
in the allocation and use of resources. The issues discussed in this report will be fully addressed during the
implementation of the second project.
The positive lessons learned were:
(a)    FIS has shown that effective management is a necessary condition for efficient operations.
Management effectiveness depends on the definition of clear goals and objectives, performance
indicators for monitoring their progress, and timely decision-making. Management effectiveness is
also enhanced by a full complement of senior management--executive president, general manager,
director of operations--which FIS did not have until July 1997.
(b)    Accountability to Government proved to be beneficial and decisive for FIS operations. In FIS' early
years, Government involvement with FIS was minimal. Following the signing of the Peace
Accords, FIS was expected to help meet the ensuing commitments, and the Government's pressure



IV
on FIS to do so had a positive impact on operations. A cautionary note on Government involvement
is that, in excess, it could lead to the politicization of FIS, which would jeopardize its hard-won
credibility.
(c)    FIS is a leader in social assistance activities, especially as these form part of integrated education
and health subprojects that support innovative programs. Social assistance subprojects have
different technical requirements than infrastructure subprojects for formulation, including the
estimation of costs, appraisal, implementation, contracting, supervision, ex post and impact
evaluations. FIS' continued success with innovative programs may depend upon strengthening
social assistance subproject processing, monitoring, and evaluation.
(d)    FIS achieved closer relations with its primary constituency--poor, rural communities--through POC
and the 21 departmental offices, which helped FIS to gain institutional credibility, improved
subproject quality, and increased the potential for collaboration with local organizations. This work
laid the foundation for essential future activities in community participation, subproject operations
and maintenance, community environmental education, and mainstreaming gender concerns, among
others. It also revealed the need for enhanced coordination and the clarification of responsibilities
among FIS' central office, departmental offices, and POC.
(e)    The on-site exchange of experience and information between social funds produces good results for
both, and study tours should be strongly supported by IBRD. FIS staff benefited greatly from a
study tour to the Nicaragua Social Investment Emergency Fund (FISE) and several regional
meetings which have provided an opportunity to exchange experiences and ideas with officials from
other social funds in the region.
The negative lessons learned were:
(f)    Given that FIS was the first IBRD social fund operation in Guatemala, the hitory of slow project
implementation in the early 1990s, and FIS' slow start-up, IBRD should probably have supervised
FIS more closely and with greater frequency. In particular, IBRD should have been more attentive
to the need to remedy FIS' weak technical capacity and efficiency. In the future, IBRD may wish to
intensify supervision, including an expanded role for the Resident Mission; provide for in-depth
annual evaluations, including monitoring progress of technical assistance and studies; and establish
a dialogue with technical staff, in addition 10 senior management. A project launch workshop for
the second operation would be a useful vehicle to promote wide participation and open
communication.
(g)    Because of periodic reorganizations, FIS neglected for approximately two years the importance of
formal, written, up-to-date procedures for subproject processing, including internal monitoring
measures that would detect problems. Thtis lapse demonstrated that the traditional social fund
subproject processing cycle (promotion, evaluation, contracting, supervision), its procedures and
internal controls are essential to efficient FIS operations. Subproject processing procedures and
methodologies must be thoroughly documented in operational manuals, internalized by staff, and
applied consistently and uniformly. Equally, senior management must ensure adherence to
procedures, including monitoring key points of quality control. The reorganizations also showed



vi
the importance of staff training--both the need for training when substantive changes occur and the
benefits of training achieved through regional seminars and study tours.
(h)    Based on the experience with the FIS enterprise (EFIS), a community organization mandated by the
FIS law, the outside creation and imposition of new organizations on communities is not
recommended. Organizations that do not build upon existing community groups and their
traditions, methods of working together, abilities, and needs in all likelihood will not succeed and,
moreover, have the potential for harming the community by generating divisiveness and conflict.
(i)    Community training in subproject operations and maintenance is critical to subproject sustainability,
along with active and informed community participation in subproject identification, priority-
ranking, and monitoring. In hindsight, provisions for community training in operations and
maintenance should have been built into project design. In the future, FIS should dedicate the
resources necessary to achieve subproject sustainability, including providing for the ways and
means of clearly communicating to communities the respective responsibilities of all involved.
Gj)    Most of the studies included in the project did not produce the expected results. To be effective,
studies should be based on genuine institutional interests and needs; TOR should clearly define
objectives and expected outputs, which are agreed upon by senior management and technical staff;
contracting should be timely to produce opportune results; and a system should be in place for the
dissemination and discussion of results by senior management and technical staff, including actions
on recommendations. These conditions were only partially satisfied for many of the studies.



Part One: Project Implementation Assessment
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social - FIS) is an autonomous, decentralized
institution of the Guatemalan government with independent legal and financial status. It was created by
Congressional Decree No. 13-93 on May 17, 1993, with an authorization for eight years, for the purpose of
investing in activities that would improve the living conditions of the poor population of rural Guatemala.
Poverty is concentrated in rural areas, among indigenous peoples, and skewed toward women. It afflicts
over 75 percent of the population, 86 percent of the rural population, 93 percent of indigenous people, and
70 percent of female-headed households (49 percent of which are in extreme poverty). Guatemala has the
second-worst GINI coefficient among 64 low-to-middle income countries, and widespread poverty akin to
that of much poorer nations. In 1989, the poorest 40 percent of the population shared barely 8.5 percent of
income, while the top 10 percent received almost 47 percent of income.
2.    IBRD supported the establishment of FIS, under the first Social Investment Fund project (Loan
3534-GU) of US$20 million, as part of a two-pronged effort to support the Government's program of
economic modernization and poverty alleviation, in addition to social sector policy reform programs' The
Government has established several social funds, including the FIS, to provide a social safety net and deliver
programs quickly in the short term, while sectoral reforms were being designed and implemented by the line
ministries. IBRD will continue to support FIS under the Second Social Investment Fund project of US$50
million, which was approved by the Board on November 12, 1998 and became effective on March 2, 1999,
and will further support the Government's poverty alleviation strategy and fulfillment of the Peace Accords.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The objectives of the first Social Investment Fund project (n. 3534-GU) were to help the
Government: (a) create a means of responding flexibly and efficiently to socio-economic needs as identified
by poor local communities, with special focus on indigenous communities and women's groups; (b) target
scarce existing resources more effectively to improve the health, nutrition, basic education, and income-
earning potential of the poor; and (c) improve the coverage and quality of basic health, nutrition, and
education services while the line ministries were being strengthened to better serve the rural population. The
IBRD loan was also intended as a channel to mobilize further intemational assistance.
4.    The project had three components: (a) FIS subprojects (US$68.0 million, equivalent to 85.0% of
total project cost); (b) FIS administration (US$8.0 million, equivalent to 10.0% of total project cost); and (c)
strengthening of sponsoring and executing agencies (US$4.0 million, equivalent to 5.0% of total project
cost). The FIS subprojects component was to cover social assistance subprojects, including community
health, food and nutrition, and basic education; social infrastructure subprojects focusing on the
rehabilitation and maintenance of health, water supply, sanitation, and education infrastructure; economic
IBRD supported the the Basic Education II project (Ln. 3003-GU) of US$18.8 million, which was approved in
1988 (revised 1993); the Secondary Roads project (Ln. 3002-GU) of US$15.6 million, which was approved in
1988 (revised 1993); and the Economic Modernization Loan (Ln. 3533-GU) of US$120 million, which was
approved on November 18, 1992.



2
infrastructure subprojects, including the rehabilitat.ion of small irrigation systems and access roads; and
productive sector subprojects, including the capitalization of revolving funds operated bynongovemmental
organizations (NGOs)--.not Bank-financed. The FIS administration component was to include operating
costs, equipment, including vehicles and compulers; technical assistance and training for FIS staff;
monitoring and evaluat:ion; and contingencies for equipment and technical assistance. The strengthening of
sponsoring and executing agencies component was to consist of technical assistance and equipment for
institutions and community groups working with FISS.
5.    The project objectives were important for the country and clearly matched the Govemment's social
sector policy to reduce poverty and increase social welfare by improving and expanding social sector
coverage and quality of services in rural areas where the needs were greatest. No modifications were made
in project objectives. The project was demanding for FIS because it was the first operation; FIS had to learn
what a social fund is, create an institution, and set up operating systems, procedures, and policies. The
project was complex because of FIS' mandate of national coverage of rural areas, a target population
comprised of 23 distinct ethnolinguistic groups, the country's difficult topography, the weaknesses of the
line ministries, and the armed conflict. When FIS began operations in 1993, the conflict was ongoing; the
Peace Accords were signed on December 29, 1996.
ACHIEVEMENT OF ]'ROJECT OBJECTIVES
Poverty Alleviation
6.    The achievement of the principal project objective - to help the Govermment with its poverty
alleviation efforts - was substantial, based on the extent to which planned interventions were implemented.
The FIS used geographic and sectoral targets with poverty criteria for resource allocation to subprojects, and
subproject results and benefits were generally favorable. FIS' contribution to poverty alleviation was
significant in terms of iimproving access to and the quality of social services delivery.
7.    Geographic Targeting. The target population for FIS since its establishment have been the poor
municipalities throughout the country, identified oni the basis of a poverty map developed during project
preparation. Poverty targeting was used for an indicative distribution of resources by municipality each
year. Five poverty rankings were established for all 330 municipalities: extreme poverty, severe poverty,
moderate poverty, relative poverty, and low poverty. Through December 1997, a total of US$96.2 million
had been committed with 16.0 percent allocated to extremely poor municipalities compared to a target of
20.4 percent. Municipalities classified as severely poor received 30.8 percent of funds compared to 31.3
percent planned. Communities with moderate levels of poverty received 31.6 percent, compared to 31.4
percent planned. Municipalities with relative poverty received 17.5 percent, compared to 13.6 percent
planned, and municipalities with low levels of poverty received 4.0 percent, compared to 3.2 percent
planned. (See Tables Bla and Table B2a.) FIS reported that it allocated resources for poor rural
communities, not municipalities. Consequently, even though targeting results show greater than planned
allocations for relative and low poverty municipalities, these investments were directed at extremely poor
communities within the municipalities.
8.    In 1997, FIS updated the poverty map, using 1994 population census data and indicators of
unsatisfied basic needs. The five poverty rankings were maintained, but the number of municipalities and
percent of rural population in each ranking changed. For example, the number of municipalities classified as



3
extremely poor increased from 32 to 52, and the population living in the rural areas of those municipalities
increased from 11.6 percent to 17.3 percent. The number of municipalities with severe poverty increased
from 72 to 93, and their rural population increased from 24.3 percent to 25.3 percent. Also, FIS introduced
in its targeting strategy the concept of "graduation" for those communities which have satisfied most of their
basic needs in social and economic infrastructure. The strategy is designed to enable FIS to target more of
its resources to the poorest communities. The new poverty map started to be applied in January 1998. From
January through October 1998, extremely poor municipalities received 26.5 percent of total approved
resources of US$64.4 million, compared to 20.4 percent planned (Table Blb and Table B2b).
Municipalities with severe poverty received 23.7 percent of resources, compared to 31.3 percent planned.
Municipalities with moderate poverty received 23.0 percent, compared to 31.4 percent planned.
Municipalities with relative poverty received 19.5 percent, compared to 13.6 percent planned, and
municipalities with low levels of poverty received 7.3 percent, compared to 3.2 percent planned. The
moderate success of the FIS in reaching the poorest communities may reflect the difficulty of access of
many of the poorest communities and the limited capacity of some to identify and prepare projects. FIS'
Community Organization Program (POC) assisted some communities with subproject identification and,
beginning in 1998, with subproject formulation.
9.     Targeting by Sector. At the beginning of the project the potential FIS investments were classified
into four broad categories and an estimate was made of the expected allocation of these investments as
follows: social assistance, 20 percent; social infrastructure, 49 percent; economic infrastructure, 21 percent;
and productive activities, 10 percent. As of October 31, 1998, the actual distribution of 7,316 contracted
subprojects with a total cost of US$136.9 million was: social assistance, 14.4 percent; social infrastructure
72.5 percent; economic infrastructure, 10.2 percent; productive activities, 1.3 percent; and special projects,
1.6 percent (Table B6). The large social infrastructure investment primarily reflects the tremendous need for
education facilities in rural areas and the effective working relation between FIS and the Ministry of
Education (MOE). Also, IBRD was the only donor to provide financing for social assistance subprojects
and limited financing for productive activities subprojects.
10.    Project Results and Benefits. FIS achieved substantial results in financing subprojects that
improved access and the conditions in which social services were delivered. From 1993 through October
1998, FIS financed 3,305 social assistance subprojects, including equipment for 1,686 education facilities,
equipment for 350 health facilities, the contracting of 175 teachers to breach the gap between completion of
school construction and the appointment of the teacher by the Ministry of Education, 142 complementary
child feeding subprojects, basic medicines for 112 community pharmacies, and 108 alphabetization and
post-alphabetization subprojects (Table B6).  In addition, FIS contracted 3,611 social infrastructure
subprojects, which included 2,095 education facilities, 713 improved cook stoves, 384 community latrine
subprojects, and 234 water supply systems. There were 215 economic infrastructure subprojects (small
bridges, access roads, mini-irrigation, and storage centers), 184 community bank subprojects, and one
special subproject. FIS estimated the number of subproject beneficiaries at 11.4 million persons.
Subprojects generated 782,000 months of temporary employment (Table B8).



4
Other Social Objectives
11.    Community Participation. The achievement of community participation among the beneficiaries
of FIS-financed subprojects was partial in relation to the subproject cycle and substantial in terms of
community contributions to subproject financing. Community participation was mandated by the FIS law in
the formation of the FIS enterprise (EFIS)--a mechanism unique to FIS. Each EFIS was constituted by 20
persons, obtained temporary legal status and was expected to identify and prepare subprojects, identify and
hire contractors, and manage subproject funds. Not surprisingly, the poorest communities were the least
likely to be able to undertake such responsibilities on their own, in particular, subproject formulation2
Communities sought assistance in subproject formulation from school teachers, municipalities,NGOs, and
contractors. Many subprojects were identified and prepared by contractors. Funds were poorly managed,
and some contractors abandoned subprojects. Today, EFIS have a "voice and vote" in contractor selection
but no longer manage funds. FIS' efforts to assist communities with subproject formulation and other
activities were modest. Obstacles to enhancing community participation were delays in relevant scheduled
studies; the slow start-up of the Community Organization Program (POC), including problems in the
definition of training costs and of contractual arrangements with training providers; and the reportedly
overly complicated procedures associated with the project's third component of US$4.0 million, which was
designed to provide technical assistance and equipment to communities and local groups to help improve
subproject preparation.3
12.    The problems surrounding the EFIS have been well-documented by the FIS, including time-
consuming bureaucratic procedures, minimal participation of women, possible conflict with traditional
community organizations, and the negligible development impact of EFIS on communities. The legal status
of EFIS ends at the conclusion of subproject execution, in contrast to other types of community
organizations that have permanent legal status (versoneriajuridica), which permits them to manage funds
for different projects. By comparison, all community education committees (OEDUCAs) have permanent
legal status under the Mqinistry of Education (MOE) National Program for Community Management in
Educational Development (PRONADE), which FIS piloted.
13.    Communities did not as a rule participate in subproject monitoring or maintenance, which are
essential to sustainability, because they were not trained to do so. In 1999, FIS will begin systematic
community training in subproject maintenance; every infrastructure subproject will have maintenance
training during execution. Community contributions to subprojects have been estimated at about 11 percent
of total subproject costs, based on ex ante calculations. Empirical evidence suggests that community
2    Prior to May 1997, there were an average of 19 subproject formulation documentation requirements, and
subproject formulation time was between 3 and 6 months. The number of documentation requirements was
subsequently reduced to 5.
3   The project's third component of US$4 million, Strengthening of Sponsoring and Executive Agencies,
provided for technical assistance and equipment for NGOs, women's groups, indigenous community
committees, municipalities, or other community groups to help improve the preparation of subprojects. FIS
reported that the procedures to use component monies were complicated and different from subproject cycle
processing procedures; therefore, it used two subproject types to provide assistance to communities. FIS
financed 56 Organizational Development of Groups without Legal Status subprojects of about US$75,000 and
84 Institutional Development for the Transformation of EFIS subprojects of US$1.6 million.



5
contributions were much higher. FIS did not take into account all community contributions, including the
costs to form the EFIS and time involved in subproject formulation, and women's indirect labor costs.
14.   To promote and strengthen community participation, FIS created the Community Organization
Program (POC) in November 1996.4 POC's goal is to empower communities to achieve self-management
and sustainable development through organization and training. Its objective is for communities to be able
to identify their own needs, prioritize them, and develop and manage projects to reduce poverty and improve
the quality of life in their communities. POC began with a pilot program in five of the poorest microregions,
which were targeted for special attention because of a demonstrated inability to organize and present
subproject proposals to FIS. POC provides training in leadership, organization, administration, basic
accounting, subproject formulation, community development planning, and environmental education. The
POC also works with municipalities, development councils, line ministries, and local organizations,
including NGOs. An evaluation of POC in 1998 showed positive results overall. POC satisfied community
expectations with regard to training and assistance with organizational development, but communities
desired concrete projects, further training, and technical assistance with productive activities and permanent
legal status.5 In 1997, POC began working to secure permanent legal status for those EFIS whose
subprojects require management of funds for operations and maintenance, i.e., water supply systems, mini-
irrigation systems, storage centers, roads and bridges, community banks, and reforestation. In 1998 program
coverage expanded to thirteen microregions. Although POC is FIS' principal vehicle for institution-building
in poor communities, program implementation appears to have been slows
15.   Indigenous Population. Approximately one-half of the Guatemalan population is identified as
indigenous and there are 23 ethnolinguistic groups, 21 of which are Mayan. The objective to promote the
participation of the indigenous population in FIS-fmanced subprojects was partially met, according to the
targets agreed at appraisal. FIS does not monitor investment allocations by ethnolinguistic group, nor does it
track the number of indigenous communities that submitted subproject proposals directly to FIS because it
maintains a policy of strict impartiality in resource allocation. FIS does not have a special focus or policy on
indigenous peoples; no group is favored over another. About 65 percent of completed FIS-financed
subprojects were in indigenous areas, and all Mayan dialects were represented' FIS has been slow to
develop promotional materials in indigenous languages and only recently began to increase the number of
bilingual and multilingual staff, including women. FIS improved its ability to reach out to rural poor, mostly
indigenous, populations through POC. In September 1998, indigenous peoples constituted 89.5 percent of
4   POC was designed as a component of the first IDB loan, with planned technical cooperation financing of
US$1.8 million over a four-year period.
5   Instituto de Investigaciones Econ6micas y Sociales (IDIES)/Universidad Rafael Landivar. Evaluaci6n del
Programa de Organizacion Comunitaria del FIS de Guatemala, Informe Final, Guatemala, septiembre 1998,
18-19.
6   IDB reported that POC had expended US$0.2 million of total fmnancing of US$1.8 million, as of mid- 1998.
7   Consortium HYDROPLAN-GOPA-PRODESARROLLO-ECOCONSULT. La Participacion Indigena en los
Proyectos FIS, Servicios de Consultoria para el Programa KfW/FIS No. 9365495, diciembre 1997, 4. The
analysis was based on the number, not amount, of subprojects.



6
community organizations with which POC worked; the remainder were comprised of indigenous peoples
and non-indigenous ladinos (persons of mixed descent).8
16.    Gender Concerns. The special focus on women's groups, envisioned at appraisal, was realized in
the design and implementation of subprojects to benefit women such as midwife training and improved cook
stoves; community banks subprojects were added later' Subprojects directly targeted at women were 10
percent of total contracted subprojects through October 1998; some POC-sponsored training activities were
also directed at women. Future subprojects aimed at women will include soil, water supply, andagro-forest
conservation activities, supported by the World Food Programme (WFP), and productive activities funded
by the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE). FIS did not seek to enhance or otherwise
promote women's equilable participation in subprojects generallyl' Following an IBRD-sponsored gender
study in October 1997, which showed FIS' potential for mainstreaming gender concerns, FIS initiated a
series of activities toward that end." Gender concerns will be fully mainstreamed in the second operation.
17.    Nongovernmental Organizations/Organizations  of Civil Society.   The participation  of
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) or, more broadly, organizations of civil society (OSCs), including
cooperatives, associations, churches, and NGOs, was partial, compared to expectations at appraisal. FIS'
experience with OSCs paralleled that of other social funds--initial mutual mistrust, rapprochement, and
finally collaboration. To date, OSCs have participated in literacy programs, community pharmacies,
midwife training, and community bank subprojects, among others. OSC participation is expected to increase
in 1999, when they will execute FIS-financed community maintenance training subprojects.
Environment
18.    The project had no significant environmental risks and was given an environmental rating of
category "B." An eval[uation of FIS-financed subprojects and environmental impact measures found that
8    Instituto de Investigaciones Econ6micas y Sociales (IDIES), op. cit, 24.
9    In mid-1997, FI' suspended financing improved cook stove subprojects due to the rising cost of materials; the
midwife training subprojects concluded at the termination of the Ministry of Health program that had
sponsored them. FIS initiated community banks subprojects with its own funds; IBRD subsequently agreed to
fmnancing of US$30.5 million for community banks. In their second operations, due to unresolved legal and
sustainability issues, IDB will not finance comrnunity bank training or capital, and IBRD will only finance
training.
10   Traditionally, women, especially indigenous women, do not participate in subproject identification and
priority-ranking; indigenous women reported that they needed training in order to participate. (See Instituto
de Investigaciones Econ6micas y Sociales (IDIES). Evaluacion del Programa de Organizacion Comunitaria
del FIS de Guatemala, Informe Final, septiembre 1998, 24). Women participate indirectly in subprojects by
assumning men's agricultural tasks when the latter are working on subproject construction. (See Elizabeth
Kiorboe, La Relevancia y la Efectividad de los Proyectos del FIS desde la Perspectiva de los Beneficiarios y
de los Agentes Ejecutores, Informe de Evaluacion, 3 de mayo de 1997, 4).
Johanna Oranje. Estudio del papel de la mujer en los proyectos FIS, Misi6n de Genero, Informe General,
octubre 1997



7
subproject appraisal and supervision instruments were similar to those of other social funds (e.g., Panama
FES and Honduras FHI S), but their effectiveness was limited due to the lack of adequate procedures to
mitigate potentially negative environmental impacts.2 In addition, community education in environmental
issues needs to be strengthened to ensure the environmental sustainability of subprojects. FIS-financed
subprojects conform to categories "B" and "C," following IBRD classification criteria, with the exception of
large road and sewerage subprojects rated as category "B." These subprojects require a more detailed
environmental impact analysis and special provisions for subproject supervision, operations, and
maintenance. Under the second operation, FIS will update environmental assessment criteria, instruments,
and procedures; train staff in their use; and provide community environmental education training.
Social Sector Policies
19.   FIS complied with social sector priorities for investment in primary education and health care in
rural areas, which were markedly underserved when FIS began operations. In the beginning, only limited
information was available on sector plans, and FIS' early investment priorities were based on community
demand. Thus, specific sector and FIS investment priorities did not necessarily coincide. Over time, FIS'
coordination with the social sectors improved. In addition to the Ministries of Health and Education, sector
coordination expanded to include the Ministry of Agriculture (MAGA), the Ministry of Communication,
Transport, and Public Works (MCTOP), and INFOM. The correlation today between FIS investment and
sector priorities is much greater because of the active involvement of the Social Cabinet led by the Vice
President and because the Ministries of Health and Education started to assign greater priority to services
provision to the rural poor, local sector authorities participate in community social investment planning in
the 13 microregions where FIS concentrates its community organization and development efforts through
POC; FIS departmental office staff also work with local sector authorities.
20.   In the early years especially, FIS supported innovative programs at a time when severe financial
constraints of the Government and burdensome procedures made it difficult to innovate in the line
ministries. FIS piloted PRONADE, which demonstrated that rural communities can be organized in parents
education committees (COEDUCAs) and trained to supervise teachers. Specifically, FIS financed a
combination of social assistance and infrastructure subprojects that helped to make PRONADE a success:
parents' association training, temporary teacher contracting, teacher aide training, teaching materials,
complementary child feeding, and school construction and equipment. Subsequently, MOE implemented
PRONADE on a national basis as its key strategy to provide rural primary education. FIS also supported
MOE's New Unitary School (NEU) program in rural areas, which used innovative methods and classroom
design for bilingual education.
21.    FIS' work with the health sector began fairly strongly but declined in the past two years due to the
slow pace of Ministry of Health (MOH) policy reform design and implementation, including local integrated
health care systems (SIAS), and to FIS' difficulties in hiring staff to manage health sector subprojects. Early
FIS support to MOH permitted it to undertake a pilot prograrn for the Sectoral Health Program financed by
IDB in high priority areas, a national prograrn for the control of vitamin A deficiencv anddeparasitization in
poor municipalities, and a program to supply medical products to community pharmacies, which included
12   Martin H. Ochoa. Evaluaci6n de Procedimientos, Criterios Ambientales, y Mecanismos de Evaluaci6n
Ambiental utilizados por el Fondo de Inversion Social, FIS/Guatemala, Guatemala, Marzo 1998, 2-3.



8
midwife and health promoter training. Here, too, FIS financed a combination of social assistance and
infrastructure subprojects: health equipment, disease prevention and control campaigns, midwife training
and equipment, health personnel training and equipment, donation of basic medicines to community
pharmacies, temporary health promoter and paramnedic contracting, and health facility construction. In
1998, FIS worked closely with MOH in the design of new health center prototypes for the three predominant
climatic zones of the country.
Public Sector Management
22.    Public sector rnanagement was not a project objective per se. However, FIS has had a partial,
positive impact on how the public sector targets social investments. Prior to FIS, public sector expenditures
were concentrated in urban areas. FIS has shown that it is possible to reach remote, impoverished areas with
priority small-scale investments in social and economic infrastructure and services, and that there are more
efficient ways to implement investment prograrns than those traditionally employed by the line ministries.
FIS' restructured financial system has been cited as an example of modernization of the state. FIS has
transferred knowledge and experience on an ad hoc basis to other state entities such as the National Peace
Fund (FONAPAZ), the National Land Fund (Fondo de Tierra), and some NGOs and municipalities. FIS'
coordination with municipalities was not as extensive or as effective as contemplated. To date, a limited
number of municipalities have worked with FIS under a co-participation (not cofinancing) arrangement in
which municipalities provide materials and/or labor on FIS-financed subprojects. FIS aims toward greater
collaboration with municipalities in the future.
Institutional Developmnent
23.    Accomplishment of the Project objective, to "create a means of responding flexibly and efficiently
to socio-economic needs as identified by poor 'local communities" was substantial in that FIS was
established as an institution, although the process was lengthy. Since its inception, FIS has had three
administrations, which shaped its institutional development. Under the first administration (1993-1995), FIS
had a traditional social fund structure, featuring a standard project cycle for subproject processing
(promotion, evaluation, contracting, supervision). This was a period of start-up activities: procedures,
systems, and work instruments were developed, operational procedures were field-tested and subproject
prototypes elaborated. The first FIS administration was keenly aware of the need for a transparent,
methodical approach and was highly sensitive to the potential for corruption. Consequently, FIS was overly
cautious; it developed administrative procedures to safeguard subproject financing and quality that exceeded
those required by IBRD, and this reduced operational efficiency.
24.    Under the second administration (1996 to March 1998), FIS evolved from a relatively small
operation to a much larger one with the addition of US$72.3 million in external resources!3 The OECF loan
was restricted to econo:mic infrastructure, water supply and sanitation; it was necessary for FIS to re-tool in
order to make use of the loan, which took a long time. Simultaneously, FIS embarked on a prolonged re-
engineering process to transform itself into a smaller, more efficient and effective organization, with the
ultimate goal of transferring its functions to commnunities when the FIS mandate ended in 2001. This
13   OECF loan of approximately US$30 million equivalent (December 1995) and IDB loan of US$42.3 million
(December 1996).



9
process was inspired by a proposed paradigm shift away from central government toward "local governance
systems" in which FIS viewed itself as a transitory institution whose utility would be strengthening local
organizations. Emphasis was placed on the development and empowerment of human resources within and
outside FIS, as well as on the development of community organization and participation through the creation
of the POC in November 1996. An additional focus was on the externalization or outsourcing of FIS
functions (e.g., subproject fornulation, supervision) to the private sector.  FIS also began a rapid
decentralization process, establishing 18 departmental offices (by 1998 there were 21).
25.   The re-engineering process resulted in two major reorganizations. In 1996, FIS combined the
traditional production line for subproject processing into two broad areas: preinvestment (promotion and
evaluation) and investment (contracting and supervision). In August 1997, FIS changed its mandate from a
primary focus on social investment (subprojects) to community development (including social investment),
which was accompanied by the second reorganization. The process-based operation (preinvestment and
investment) changed to a product-based operation, organized by sector in operating units that would
subscribe to a common subproject cycle managed by each operating unit.4 Institutional innovations and
outreach to the larger society were given greater emphasis than operational efficiency, which declined until
the FIS management team was reinforced by the appointment of a new general manager and director of
operations in July 1997.15 A corrective, Immediate Action Plan designed to improve operational efficiency
was initiated in August 1997, at the request of IBRD.
26.   Under the third administration (April 1998 to the present) and in view of increased Govemment
pressure on FIS to regain its former efficiency and credibility as an institution and contribute more to a rapid
public sector response to the Peace Accords, FIS management instituted internal and external controls based
on the threefold premise of accountability, efficiency, and quality. By October 1998, FIS had largely
regained public confidence and achieved significant operational gains, as evidenced in subproject
disbursement rates not equalled at any prior point in its institutional history.  Since its inception,
disbursements by year were: US$0.5 million in 1994, US$7.6 million in 1995, US$16.1 million in 1996,
US$22.5 million in 1997, and US$47.2 million through October 31, 1998 (Table B7). FIS reported that the
OECF loan, planned for 5 years, will be completed in 3; the OPEC loan, planned for 2 years, will be
completed in 1; and the IDB loan, planned for 4 years, will be completed in 2.
Project Design
27.   The general design of the project was appropriate for achieving the main objectives. The design
followed the best practices and IBRD experience with other social investment funds. In retrospect, the
project would have benefited from a component or other designated resources that provided for community
training in operations and maintenance to ensure subproject sustainability. At the time of project design,
however, sustainability was not considered a key issue because social funds were considered temporary
emergency social safety net mechanisms to alleviate the impact of economic crises and adjustment programs
on the poor; consequently, they did not focus on the longer term aspects of social and economic investment
14  The sectors are water and sanitation, health, education, economic infrastructure, productive activities, and
environment.
I5  The general manager became the FIS executive president in April 1998.



10
for sustainable development. Also, the line ministries were supposed to modernize and reform their own
operations and take over the operations and maintenance of subprojects financed by FIS.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Conatrol
28.    In 1995 and 1996, FIS experienced some difficulties in working with communities in areas of armed
conflict, which limited subproject financing in those areas. Through mid-1997, poor performance by some
contractors on infrastructure subprojects had a negative effect on subproject implementation, and resulted in
the abandonment of sonme subprojects and re-contracting of others. The problem with the contractors was
exacerbated by weaknesses in FIS subproject supervision. In 1998, FIS adopted a policy in favor of local
contractors with FIS experience, created a contractor registry, and instituted a blacklisting of contractors
who did not perform well.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Controlt
29.    The signing of the Peace Accords on December 29, 1996, had a substantial, positive impact on
project implementation because they raised high expectations for FIS to help meet the Accord commitments,
and the Government sitrongly pressured FIS to do so. FIS support primarily concerns two accords,
Socioeconomic Aspects and the Agrarian Situation and Identity and Rights of the Indigenous People"6
Expectations of FIS are high because FIS has national coverage unlike other funds such as FONAPAZ and
the Guatemalan Indigenous Development Fund (FC)DIGUA), works in rural areas, and has comparative
advantages over other state institutions in terms of funds available and less cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures. Moreover, while the country works toward the long-term goal of transformation to a more
inclusive nation, the FIS mandate to help meet basic needs in the short-term directly relates to the Accords'
ambitious targets for shifting public expenditure tc social programs and rapidly improving Guatemala's
performance in education, health, and rural infrastructure services.
16   The comprehensive Peace Accords, signed by the Government of Guatemala and the Guatemalan National
Revolutionary Unity (URNG), brought an end to the civil conflict that lasted 36 years and cost at least 100,000
lives, and laid the basis for transformation to a more inclusive nation, recognizing that reducing poverty,
particularly among rural and indigenous peoples, is essential for lasting peace. The Socioeconomic Accord
sets a development strategy that contains quantitative targets and calls for qualitative achievements on land
issues and social services. The latter include increasing the literacy rate to 70 percent in 2000, and
maintaining the eradication of poliomyelitis, in addition to wider participation of the citizenry in
socioeconomic development, decentralization of decision-making in the social and economic areas, and
strengthening mtnicipal authorities; active parlicipation of women in socioeconomic development; and
enhanced access of small farmers to land and credit, sustainable use of land resources, limiting the alienability
of land, and comLpensating or restoring usurped lands. The Identity and Rights of the Indigenous People
Accord defines the identify and rights of the indigenous people as a fundamental issue of peace. Among
others, it commits the parties to overcome ethnic discrimination by promoting changes in discriminatory laws
so as to recognize the rights of indigenous peoples through the educational system and the media, and prevent
a double discrimination against indigenous women.



I1
30.    From 1993 to 1995, Government support of FIS was far less than originally anticipated. While it
was expected that FIS might need more time than planned to reach full operational capacity, it was not
envisioned that in the early years FIS would work without the support of central government--a situation that
other social funds did not confront. Beginning in 1996, Government support grew, which had a positive
effect on project implementation. Today, the Government views FIS as one of the principal executing
agencies of its poverty reduction policy. Government counterpart funding of FIS has risen steadily, from
about US$7.8 million (Q47 million) in 1997; to US$12.3 million (Q74 million) in 1998; and a proposed
allocation of about US$29 million (Ql 54 million) in 1999.
31.    Changes in some line ministry policies and their senior managerial and technical personnel,
following the change in Government administration in January 1996, had a partial negative impact on
project implementation. The MOE discontinued the New Unitary School program and the use of the related
school design, which FIS had financed. FIS waited nearly two years for the MOH to develop and
implement policy reform toward preventive health care, including changes in health facility designs.
Factors Generally Subject to FIS Control
32.    FIS' ability to attract additional external financing led to a 100 percent increase in its investments in
subprojects. At appraisal, subproject investments were estimated at US$68 million; in October 1998,
subproject investments, based on commitments, were US$136.8 million (Table A6a).
33.   The FIS outreach efforts to poor communities have helped to build their confidence in FIS and, by
extension, the Government. In the beginning, there was a lack of confidence or trust in state institutions,
especially among the residents of extremely poor areas who had witnessed major social displacements as a
result of political violence. There was also a generalized feeling that the only time that Government reached
out to them was when there were national or municipal elections or threats imposed by the insurgency.
Given this sense of abandonment and lack of trust, FIS has been seen by many community leaders as
providing an alternative to conventional ways in which the government related to their communities and as
providing an opportunity to obtain basic services. While the relation between FIS and poor communities has
grown stronger over the years, it is still somewhat fragile, and much remains to be done, e.g., further
streamlining the bureaucratic procedures that impede community participation, increased use of promoters
and other staff with the requisite language skills to facilitate communication, and greater recognition of the
participation of local organizations in community development.
34.    FIS financing of innovative education and health programs had a substantial, positive effect on
project implementation, and in this regard, FIS can serve as a model for other social funds. At the same
time, FIS experienced problems in creating integrated education and health subprojects because
corresponding social assistance and infrastructure subprojects were administered separately.  Social
assistance subprojects were particularly difficult because of inadequate technical criteria, appraisal and
supervision methodologies, standardized unit costs, and technical staff with requisite skills. In the future,
FIS may wish to give more attention to improving processing for integrated subprojects and redressing
social assistance subproject deficiencies.
35.    The principal factors that had a substantial, negative effect on project implementation and were
subject to FIS control were management inadequacies, deficient monitoring and evaluation, and the impact
on FIS of two major reorganizations within a two-year period. As previously noted, management was



12
overly cautious in the early years and focused on process rather than outputs. In the middle years,
management was too flexible and gave priority to innovations instead of productivity. Ultimately,
management has focused on productivity, primarily infrastructure investment, with well-defined goals and
objectives. The two major reorganizations significantly disrupted normal operations. For example, the
premise supporting decentralization to departmental offices was to increase efficiency, but the process itself
was hasty, inadequately planned, and led to poorly equipped and staffed departmental offices whose
functions and responsibilities were ill-defined. Monitoring and evaluation relative to internal controls and
subprojects was problematic from the beginning and made worse by FIS' failure to update operational
manuals on the occasion of either reorganization. 'The loss of accountability, efficiency, and control over
subproject operations led to the departure of experienced, competent technical staff and low morale. FIS
subproject supervision was demonstrably inadequaile for about two years, and the remedy of contracting
external supervisors did not work. In addition, grossly deficient working conditions (overcrowding, lack of
equipment) adversely affected productivity and morale until FIS moved to new facilities in October 1997.
Changes in the Project Cost
36.    Changes in the total project cost including government, donor and beneficiary contributions resulted
from the demonstrated implementation capacity of i:he FIS and the ability of the FIS to mobilize additional
resources from external sources. At appraisal, the total project cost (subproject investments plus operating
costs) was estimated at US$80 million (Table A6a). By October 1998, total project cost had grown to
US$178.4 million, based on commitments (Table A6b). The target for external funding was US$56.7
million, including IBRI) financing, compared to subsequent commitments of US$111.6 million from IBRD
and other multi- and bilateral donors."7 The cost of subproject investments increased from US$68 million
estimated at appraisal to US$136.8 million. Through October 1998, total disbursements were US$47.2
million, which suggeslts that the project cost was correctly appraised, although FIS' ability to mobilize
additional resources was underestimated. At appraisal, the projected Government contribution was US$11.3
million, compared to an actual commitment of US$44.4 million in October 1998.
Implementation Delays
37.   Project implementation proceeded generally in line with the conservative forecasts set out in the
SAR, although some delays did occur. The IBRD loan was to be disbursed over a period of about three and
one-half years. The project was approved on November 24, 1992; signed on September 29, 1993; and
became effective on March 28, 1994. The original project closing date was December 31, 1997. There
were two extensions. The closing date was first extended for six months to June 30, 1998; FIS could submit
disbursement requests until October 31, 1998. The closing date was extended a second time to March 31,
1999, to permit FIS to use remaining funds of US$0.4 million for emergency relief efforts to mitigate the
impact of Hurricane Miitch in late October 1998.
17  The principal sources of extemal financing vwere: (a) IBRD Ln. 3534-GU of US$20 million, (b) the
Govemment of Jiapan (OECF) loan of US$26.2 million, (c) the Government of Germany (KfW) agreement of
US$ 18.4 million, the IDB loan of US$42.3 million, and the OPEC agreement of US$4.5 million.



13
38.    Loan effectiveness was delayed because of the "auto-coup" in 1993;18 slowness in completing a
financing agreement with KfW, which was a condition of effectiveness; and a subsequent delay in the
approval by Congress for foreign loans for FIS."9 Other delays previously noted included the unavoidably
long process of initial field-testing of operational procedures; the unforeseen availability of the OECF loan
allocated to larger infrastructure projects, which caused FIS to re-tool for economic infrastructure
subprojects in lieu of a more rapid implementation of the IBRD loan; and the changes occasioned by 3
different FIS administrations.
39.   Implementation delays were not unique to FIS. The age profile of the FY98 IBRD portfolio in
Guatemala reflects the difficulty of lending and implementing projects during the economic turmoil of the
early 1990s (Guatemala was in arrears for more than a year), the resumption of lending as civil conflict
subsided and macroeconomic stabilization got underway, and the acceleration of lending upon the signing of
the Peace Accords. The two oldest projects, Secondary Roads (Ln. 3002-GU) and Basic Education II (Ln.
3003-GU), were both approved in 1988, and restructured at effectiveness in 1993. Slow implementation
will remain a concern for the next project because of the experience of this project.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
40.    The sustainability of FIS as an institution is likely, given the strength of the Govemment's
commitment and the FIS role in the fulfillment of the Peace Accords. However, FIS remains vulnerable due
to its reliance on the availability of external resources. New FIS legislation, including the extension of its
current mandate from May 31, 2001 to 2005 has been prepared for congressional approval. Project
sustainability is also supported by the follow-on Second Social Investment Fund project of US$50 million,
which was approved in November 1998 and by the prospects for new funding from other donors.
41.    The sustainability of some FIS-financed subprojects is likely because of agreements between FIS
and line ministries. Subproject sustainability is uncertain for subprojects which depend.upon community
operations and maintenance because FIS has not systematically trained communities in maintenance and
repair, and permanent legal status has not been conferred on all community groups whose subprojects
involve the management of funds, e.g., water supply systems. In the second project, agreements with
ministries will be updated, and a comprehensive program of beneficiary training in social organization and
operations and maintenance of completed infrastructure subprojects will be implemented.
18  In 1993, President Serrano attempted a coup, which dissolved Congress, closed the Supreme Court, suspended
the Constitution, and decreed emergency rule, initially with military support. The coup failed when public
protest mounted, leading to the recall of Congress by the military, and Congress' choice of the Human Rights
Ombudsman, Ramiro de Le6n Carpio, to head an interim government.
19  There was also an 8-month delay in declaring the project eligible for the first IDB loan.



14
IBRD PERFORMANCE
Identification
42.    IBRD performtance in project identification was satisfactory and built upon previous work'0 The
project was consistent with the country assistance strategy (CAS) to support the Government's program of
economic modernization and poverty alleviation. The project was a key component in the IBRD lending
prograrn directed at the social sectors and targeted at the poorest rural communities.
Preparation Assistance
43.    IBRD performiance in preparation assistance was satisfactory. In addition to IBRD involvement, the
preparation of the project was supported by UNDP and UNICEF-financed technical assistance. UNICEF, in
particular, provided extraordinary support in the forrn of direct staff assistance, financing of sector
specialists (education, health, water supply and sanitation), and the benefit of its extensive experience with
social sector investments in Guatemala and with NGOs. There was also a considerable amount of
coordination and consultations with USAID, IDB, andNGOs.
Appraisal
44.    IBRD performance in project appraisal was satisfactory. Correct appraisals were made with respect
to project design, which was supported by detailed irechnical analyses and prior experience with social funds;
the adequacy of the project amount; and the recognition of project risks, including that of setting up of an
entirely new institution to operate on a decentralized basis at a time when Guatemala did not have a good
history of project implementation. The assessnment that FIS should not be merged into the existing
FONAPAZ was correct; the target populations and objectives of the two institutions are very different.
Monitoring and evaluation criteria were quantified in 18 key performance indicators, which covered global
achievement targets, project flow and bottlenecks, staffing levels, and efficiency.
Supervision
45.    IBRD supervision was satisfactory. Supervision reports regularly rated project implementation
progress as satisfactory, while noting the slow pace of disbursements, in addition to moderate problems in
monitoring and evaluation, and in covenant compliance related to annual and concurrent audits. FIS
management consistently provided information and assurances that it was addressing these problems. The
April 1997 annual review found that a combination of problems--many of which were linked to the re-
engineering process--necessitated immediate, corTective actions. FIS agreed to prepare a time-based
20   The Government of Guatemala first discussed the possibility of creating a social investment fund with IBRD
in 1988. A social investment fund project was prepared during late 1988 and 1989 and was negotiated in
March 1990.  However, given the proximity of the general elections and the expected change in
administration, the social fund was not created and the project never presented to the Board. The new
administration that took office in 1991 remained interested in developing a social fund project. However,
because of discontinuation of debt service to IBRD, the project remained on hold. IBRD's active participation
to redesign the project began in February 1992, after the Government had indicated its intention to establish
the FIS and clear arrears.



15
corrective action plan, and IBRD provided a technical team to help with its preparation in August 1997. FIS'
Immediate Action Plan was a turning point; thereafter, implementation performance improved significantly,
especially disbursement rates. In hindsight, IBRD should have been more attentive to the need to remedy
FIS' weak technical capacity and efficiency and provided technical support sooner.
46.   Working relations between IBRD and FIS were good. Supervision was timely, the dialogue
between the two institutions was open, and coordination was effective. However, both IBRD and FIS
shared responsibility for somewhat faulty communications. On reflection, FIS would have liked to have had
greater communications with its technical staff, more rigorous and frequent supervision, more information
on IBRD information resources and how to access them, more assistance with technical matters, and greater
overlaps in the change from one task manager to another. At the same time, FIS observed that it did not
always know how to ask for help. In retrospect, IBRD could have made a greater effort to elicit FIS'
concerns. For example, FIS did not ask for help with auditing; IBRD should have provided this support
sooner. The fact that there were 3 task managers and 3 FIS administrations, whose tenures largely
coincided, may have been a contributing factor. The loss of institutional memory occurred on both sides.
Future project supervision may wish to define with FIS an effective means of bringing forward important
matters.
47.   Finally, during project preparation and FIS' start-up period, it would have been helpful to have had a
field office presence. The Resident Mission was established in August 1996. The needs for an earlier
presence included a better sense of country conditions in general, briefings on key issues and events, early
warning signals, and support in dealings with the Ministry of Finance (the latter was a role that UNICEF
staff performed).
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Preparation
48.   The borrower's performance in project preparation was satisfactory. The poverty map used in FIS
investment targeting was developed during preparation; it was the first poverty map of its kind in Guatemala
and made a genuine contribution to poverty assessment and social investment planning. Project preparation
experienced some difficulties. The FIS project preparation team was drawn from FONAPAZ staff, and
during the planning period (February 1992 to December 1992), there was a high turnover of personnel. The
FIS team was separated from FONAPAZ staff in March 1993. At that time, there were only 3 higher level
staff members who had been with the team during the planning period. Consequently, initial FIS staffing
was small and relatively inexperienced. Also, high level Government support could have been stronger in
moving the project forward; however, the Government's principal concern was the IBRD Economic
Modernization Loan (EML), which was scheduled for Board approval in November 1992.
Implementation
49.   Overall, project implementation was satisfactory but with moderate problems that delayed, but did
not forestall, the achievement of objectives.
50.   The efficiency of project administration has been difficult to assess because of the sharing of
administrative costs by the government and the project and changes in these arrangements during the course



16
of the project . The complete information which would make this assessment possible is not available. The
institution grew from 70 staff in 1994, to 282 in October 1998, with the central office accounting for 75
percent of the staff and the departmental offices acccunting for 25 percent (Table B9).
51.    FIS made significant gains in operational efficiency, beginning with an internal review of subproject
processing in May 1997, which was followed by the implementation of the Immediate Action Plan. The
Finance and Administration Department successfilly reorganized, revised its operational manual, and
significantly increased its capacity to process contractor payments (300 weekly payments on average in
October 1998). The Information Systems Department installed a new system (hardware and software) and
integrated the subproject and cost data bases; the integration of the financial data base was nearly complete
in October 1998. The Planning Department prepared a new poverty map and developed quarterly
production reports by sector and investment plans by geographic department.  The investment plans,
implemented for the first time in January 1998, enabled FIS sector operating units and departmental offices
to organize their activities.  POC was reoriented to link community organization activities with the
fonnulation of subprojects eligible for FIS financing. FIS reviewed its subproject portfolio, deleted non-
viable subprojects and planned feasibility studies for viable subprojects, which were given a priority-
ranking. As a consequence, the 1999 portfolio shou]id be easier to realize.
52.    The quality of infrastructure subprojects (design, technical specifications, materials, workmanship)
has been consistently assessed as good by donors; it compares very favorably with that of the Honduras
FFHIS, Nicaragua FISE, and Panama FES. FIS has also led Central American social funds in the number,
type, and amount of social assistance subprojects. The variety of subprojects financed by the Guatemala
FIS, which added to its complexity, is another ellement explaining FIS' slow start-up and management
difficulties.
53.    Some areas still need to be strengthened. The delineation and coordination of responsiblities
between the central sector operating units and departmental offices and between POC and departmental
offices should be clarified and systematized, including decision-making authority among the different actors.
FIS made progress on subprojects that require preinvestment, e.g., economic infrastructure and water
supply and sanitation, but water supply and sanitation subprojects in particular will require improved
planning, monitoring, and the introduction of better environmental measures. Subproject monitoring and
evaluation has long been a major weakness. FIS did not make adequate or timely use of IBRD- or IDB-
financed technical assistance for subproject monitoring and evaluation?' A recent improvement (late 1998)
was the creation of a central subproject monitoring unit to work in conjunction with departmental office
subproject monitoring in order to improve supervision. FIS also plans to implement a social impact
monitoring component.
54.    Subproject operations and maintenance continue to be a serious concern, and the recommendation
made in the 1995 annual review is still valid: "To avoid false expectations and possible frustrations among
21  IBRD assistance was planned for the evaluation of best practices in relation to water and sanitation, nutrition,
education, prodluctive activities, evaluation of FIS' effectiveness in reaching target groups, design and
implementation of a mechanism to evaluate the welfare impact of approved subprojects, and data collection
for the evaluation of approved subprojects' impact. IDB assistance was planned for the implementation of a
system for parallel monitoring of subprojects with specific arrangements for monitoring the quality and impact
of groups of subprojects and for carnying out program evaluations.



17
beneficiary communities, the FIS should implement effective strategies for ensuring the continuity and
sustainability of the subprojects it finances, including clearer definition of responsibilities for the assuming
of continuity of FIS-financed subprojects by sectoral agencies, such as MOE and MOH. These
responsibilities for follow-up on the part of both line agencies and local communities should be clearly
communicated to project beneficiaries." Additionally, the efficacy of EFIS and their impact on communities
is an issue that should be addressed without delay.
55.    The major part of scheduled studies did not produce the hoped-for results, including those financed
under a Government of Japan grant for the preparation of the second project. Studies were hampered by
delays in the elaboration of Terms of Reference (TOR); lack of input from technical staff in the definition of
TOR, including objectives and expected outputs; delayed contracting, which affected the utility of studies;
and apparent lack of consensus between IBRD and FIS on some study topics. In addition, FIS did not have
a system in place for the dissemination and discussion of study results by senior management and technical
staff, including actions on recommendations. FIS reported that over half of technical assistance was not
useful.
56.    Covenant compliance was satisfactory, with the exception of the lateness of annual audits and the
lack of certified quarterly concurrent audits of a sample of approved subprojects. Quarterly audits were to
be an important source of information on quality, and FIS was to have incorporated feedback into its
operations. Ninety concurrent audits of individual subprojects were initiated in February 1997, covering the
period July 1994 to December 31, 1996. The audits remain in preliminary, draft form. FIS reported that the
Terms of Reference (TOR) for concurrent audits produced results that were not useful (or timely) at a cost
that was not acceptable, and proposed to present revised TOR to IBRD for outstanding concurrent audits.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
57.   Based on the achievement of the principal objectives and FIS' implementation performance, as
detailed in the preceding paragraphs, the outcome of the project was satisfactory.
FUTURE OPERATION
58.    The Second Social Investment Fund project of US$50 million will support the FIS investment
program for the period 1999 to 2003. The project will finance high priority social and economic
infrastructure and complementary goods and services; training and consultant assistance to support capacity
building and subproject sustainability in communities; and strengthening of the central and departmental FIS
offices, closer coordination with local governments and line ministries, ex post and impact evaluations of
completed subprojects and beneficiary assessments, and the development of a coherent framework for the
social safety net. The project will support improvements in FIS policies and operations, including
decentralization, contracting and supervision, environmental assessment procedures, women's participation,
and community participation. The latter refers to a comprehensive program of beneficiary training in social
organization, operations and maintenance of all completed infrastructure subprojects, including the
establishment of user groups/maintenance committees and provision of a simple took kit for water supply,
and sanitation and access road subprojects and community commitment to contribute to the cost of
operations and maintenance. Progress toward objectives will be monitored and assessed by 21 key



18
performance indicators (Table A5b). The issues discussed in this report will be fully addressed during the
implementation of the second project.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Positive Lessons Learned
59.    FIS has shown that effective management is a necessary condition for efficient operations.
Management effectiveness depends on the definition of clear goals and objectives, performance indicators
for monitoring their progress, and timely decision-making. Management effectiveness is also enhanced by a
full complement of senior management--executive president, general manager, director of operations--which
FIS did not have until July 1997.
60.    Accountability to Government proved to be beneficial and decisive for FIS operations. In FIS' early
years, Government involvement with FIS was minimal. Following the signing of the Peace Accords, FIS
was expected to help mneet the ensuing commitments, and the Government's pressure on FIS to do so had a
positive impact on operations. A cautionary note on Government involvement is that, in excess, it could
lead to the politicization of FIS, which would jeopardize its hard-won credibility.
61.    FIS is a leader in social assistance subprojects, especially as these form part of integrated education
and health subprojects that support innovative programs. Social assistance subprojects have different
technical requirements than infrastructure subprojects for formulation, including costs, appraisal,
implementation, contracting, and supervision, in addition to ex post and impact evaluations. FIS' continued
success with innovative programs may depend upon strengthening social assistance subproject processing,
monitoring, and evaluation.
62.    FIS achieved closer relations with its primary constituency--poor, rural communities--through POC
and the 21 departmental offices, which helped F][S to gain institutional credibility, improved subproject
quality, and increased the potential for collaboration with local organizations. This work laid the foundation
for needed future activities in the areas of community participation in subproject operations and
maintenance, community environmental education, and mainstreaming gender concerns, among others. It
also pointed out the need for enhanced coordination and the clarification of responsibilities among FIS'
central office, departmental offices, and POC.
63.    The on-site exchange of experience and information between one social fund and another produces
good results for both, and study tours should be strongly supported by IBRD. Among other visits, FIS'
financial department benefitted greatly from a study tour to the Nicaragua FISE.
Negative Lessons Learned
64.    Given that FIS was the first IBRD social ifund operation in Guatemala, the history of slow project
implementation in the early 1990s, and FIS' slow start-up, IBRD should probably have supervised FIS more
closely and with greater frequency. In particular, IBRD should have been more attentive to the need to
remedy FIS' weak technical capacity and efficiency. In the future, IBRD may wish to intensify supervision,
including a greater role for the Resident Mission; provide for in-depth annual evaluations, including
monitoring progress of technical assistance and studies; and establish a dialogue with technical staff, in



19
addition to senior management. A project launch workshop for the second operation would be a useful
vehicle to promote wide participation and open communication.
65.   Due to organizational restructurings, FIS neglected for approximately two years the importance of
formnal, written, up-to-date procedures for subproject processing, including internal monitoring measures that
would detect problems. This lapse demonstrated that the traditional social fund subproject processing cycle
(promotion, evaluation, contracting, supervision), its procedures and internal controls are essential to
efficient FIS operations.  Subproject processing procedures and methodologies must be thoroughly
documented in operational manuals, internalized by staff, and applied consistently and uniformly. Equally,
senior management must ensure adherence to procedures, including monitoring key points of quality
control. The reorganizations also showed the importance of staff training--both the need for training when
substantive changes occur and the benefits of training achieved through study tours.
66.   Based on the experience with EFIS, the outside creation and imposition of new organizations on
communities is not recommended. Organizations that do not build upon existing community groups and
their traditions, methods of working together, abilities, and needs in all likelihood will not succeed and,
moreover, have the potential for harming the community by generating divisiveness and conflict.
67.    Community training in subproject operations and maintenance is critical to subproject sustainability,
along, with active and informed community participation in subproject identification, priority-ranking, and
monitoring. In hindsight, provisions for community training in operations and maintenance should have
been built into project design. In the future, FIS should dedicate the resources necessary to achieve
subproject sustainability, including providing for the ways and means of clearly communicating to
communities the respective responsibilities of all involved.
68.   Most of the studies included in the project did not produce the expected results. To be effective,
studies should be based on genuine institutional interests and needs; TOR should clearly define objectives
and expected outputs, which are agreed upon by senior management and technical staff; contracting should
be timely to produce opportune results; and a system should be in place for the dissemination and discussion
of results by senior management and technical staff, including actions on recommendations. These
conditions were only partially satisfied for many of the studies.



20
Part Two: Statistical Data
A.    General Statistical Data
Table Al     Summary of Assessments
Table A2     Related IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
Table A3     Project Timetable
Table A4     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table A5a    Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation (Loan 3534-GU), 1993 to
October 31, 1998
Table A5b    Key Performance Indicators for Second Social Investment Project
Table A6a    Project Costs, 1993 to October 31, 1998
Table A6b    Project Financing, 1993 to October 31, 1998
Table A7     Status of Covenants
Table A8     IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table A9     IDA Resources: Missions
B.    FIS Project Data
Table B I a  Comparison between Planned and Approved Resource Allocation by Poverty
Level, 1993 to December 31, 1997 (percent)
Table B lb   Comparison between Planned and Approved Resource Allocation by Poverty
Level, January I to October 31, 1998 (percent)
Table B2a    Comparison between Planned and Approved Resource Allocation by Poverty
Level, 1993 to December 31, 1997 (US$ million)
Table B2b    Comparison between Planned and Approved Resource Allocation by Poverty
Level, January 1 to October 31, 1998 (US$ million)
Table B3a    Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level, 1993 to December 31, 1997
(percent)
Table B3b    Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level, January 1 to October 31, 1998
(percent)
Table B3c    Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level, 1993 to December 31, 1997
(percent)
Table B3d    Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level, January 1 to October 31, 1998
(percent)
Table B4a    Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level, 1993 to December 31, 1997
(US$ million)
Table B4b    Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level, January 1 to October 31, 1998
(US$ million)
Table B5a    Contracted Subprojects by Program and Poverty Allocation, 1993 to December 31,
1997 (US$ million)
Table B5b    Contracted Subprojects by Program and Poverty Allocation, January 1 to October
31, 1998 (US$ million)
Table B6     Subprojects under Contrac.t by Program and Type, 1993 to October 31, 1998
Table B7     Disbursements by Program, 1993 to October 31, 1998 (US$ million)
Table B8     Number of Subproject Beneficiaries, Employment Generated, and Average
Subproject Cost, 1993 to October 31, 1998
Table B9     FIS Staffing, 1993 to October 31, 1998



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table Al: Summary of Assessments
Macro Policies                                                                              x
Sector Policies                                       x
Financial Objectives                                                                           X
Institutional Development              X
Physical Objectives                  X
Poverty Alleviation                  X
Gender Issues                                        X
Other Social Objectives               X
Environmental Objectives                                   X
Public Sector Management                                                      X
Private Sector Development                                                     X
Other (specify)                                                                             X
x
Identification                                                 X
Preparation Assistance                                             X
Appraisal                                                    X
Supervision                                                   X
Preparation                                                   X
Implementation                                                  X
Covenant Compliance                                                X
Operation (if applicable)                                           X
: -



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTIMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A2: Relatied Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credititle             Purpose              Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. Economic              Aims to increase
Modernization Loan     government revenues and
(Ln. 3533-GU)          to reallocate government         FY93                   Closed
expenditure toward the
social sectors
2. Second Education Loan   Improve basic education  FY89 (revised FY94)    On going (to be closed in
(Ln. 3003-GU)          services primarily in rural                          June 30, 1999)
areas
Following operations
1. Social Investment Fund   Continue to support the       FY99                   Ongoing
II (L. 4407-GU)        Government's poverty
alleviation efforts by
targeting its investmenls to
the poorest areas and
population groups in the
country, and contribute to
participatory decision-
making by strengthening
the capacity of community-
based subprojets, and
ensure sustainability by
developing adequate
arrangements for subproject
operations and
maintenance.
2. Basic Ed. Reform      Expansion of Education           FY97                   Ongoing
Project (L. 4167-CU)   Coverage
3. Rural and Main Roads    Road Construction/             FY89                   Ongoing
(L. 4260-GU)           Rehabilitation
4. Judicial Reform Project  Institutional Strengthening   FY99                   Ongoing
(L. 4401-GU)
5. Secondary and Regional  Rehabilitation of Primary      FY93                   Ongoing
Roads (L. 3002-GU)    and Secondary Roads
6. Land Fund Project     Land Titling                     FY99                   Ongoing
(L. 4432-GU)
7. Reconstruction and    Community Development            FY99                   Ongoing
Local Development      and Reconstruction
Project (L. 4379-CU)



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A3: Project Timetable
Identification                                      Dec. 4-14, 1988
Preparation                                      Jan. 1989-Feb. 1992
Appraisal                                       Jan. 28-Feb. 3, 1990
Negotiations                                       November 3, 1992
Board Presentation                                   November 24, 1992
Signing                                         September 29, 1993
Effectiveness                                       March28, 1994
Midterm review                                       March 10, 1997
Project Completion                July 12, 1998        June 30, 1999
Loan Closing                December 31, 1997       March 31, 1999



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY3 FY,94  FY5 F96 F9                Y9        Y9      FY00
!~~~~~~~~Y3 ., , .
Appraisal Estimate         3.00    7.80   12.60   17.40    20.00    20.00    20.00   20.00
Actual                     0.0    0.30    3.16    7.76    13.19     16.79    19.52   19.52
Actual as % of Estimate   0.0%    38%    25%    45%        66%      84%      98%      98%
Date of Final Disbursement   April 6, 1999



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A5: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
PROJECTS - PROMOTION & APPRAISAL                                        l
1. Number of subproject    Subproject      Determine actual demand for
requests               database         SIF's financing and evaluate   1,000        1 200       1 400
SIF's promotion capacity                                        I
2. Number of subprojects   Subproject      Determine SIF's appraisal
appraised              database         capacity                       670          1000        1,200
3. Number of evaluators   Personnel        Assure that SIF has enough
management       professionals                   10           12          14
4. Number of subprojects   Subproject      Determine SIF's marginal
appraised by evaluator   database       evaluation capacity             6.7         6.9          7.1
per month
5. Number of subprojects   Subproject      Determine relationship of
approved               database         projects approved to projects  580          720          740
appraised
6. Total cost of subprojects  Subproject   Determine SIF's project
approved               database         processing capability       $18 million"   $40 million"   $68 million"
7. Number of subprojects   Subproject      Determine possible
with financing         database and     bottlenecks in procurement      0.6          0.7         0.7
contracVNumber of      procurement      procedures
subprojects approved    department                                                                      I
SUPERVISION                                                       l
8. Time span between      Supervision      Determine possible
contract signing and first database     bottlenecks in the supervision  10 days    8 days       5 days
disbursement                            or administration department
9. Number of subprojects   Supervision     Determine SIF's overall
started                database         processing capacity             360         520          570
10. Total cost of         Supervision      Determine SIF's overall
subprojects started   database         processing capacity         $11 million"   $23 million"   $35 million"l
11. Percentage of                          Improve appraisal cost
subproject contracts                   estimates                     < 10%        < 10%        < 10%
modified because of
cost overruns
12. Disbursements for the   Supervision    Determine execution levels,
period                database;        balance to be disbursed &   $11 million"   $32 million"   $68 million"
administration   general SIF capacity to
_____..______.._____.___   database        disburse in a given time period
1v Cumulative amounts in US Dollars.



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A5: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
(continued)
INDCTOR                     .     OURCE OBJECT--
,______________       ,     ,     ,      ______________      A_ .P     L .94    APRIL95     APRIL9e
13. Number of subprojects  Personnel       Determine SIF's capacity to
in actual             management &      handle its current              30           30           30
execution/Number of   supervision       commit nents
Supervisors           database
14. Percent of subprojects  Annual review  Assure adequate Levels of
judged of low quality                   quality                        < 20%        < 10%        < 10%
by independent
physical audit
15. Percent of funds      Subproject       Ensure adequate emphasis on
committed to social   database          sodal assistance subprojects    16%          18%         20%
assistance
subprojects
_____________          TARGETING
16. Percent of funds      Subproject      T Ensure funds reach poorer
committed to          database          communities                    < 30%        < 30%       < 30%
municipalities
deviating from targets



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A5a: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation (1998)
(continued)
PROJECTS - PROMOTION & APPRAISAL                                         l
1 Number of subproject    Promotion       Determine actual demand for
requests               Department       SIF's financing and evaluate    2,000        3,579        178.95
SIF's promotion capacity
2. Number of subprojects   Promotion       Determine SIF's appraisal
appraised              Department       capacity                     $50 million"    $81.44       162.88
l ___________________________                                                           m illion"on"
3. Number of project      Promotion        Assure that SIF has enough
promoters              Department       professionals in promotion      200           120          60
4. Number of subprojects    Evaluation     Determine SIF's evaluation
appraised by evaluator   Department     capacity                        1,850        2,147        116.05
per month
5. Value of subprojects   Evaluation       Determine SIF's evaluation
approved               Department       capacity                     $46 million"    $67.47       146.67
nmillion"
6. Total cost of subprojects  Evaluation   Determine SIF's project
approved               Department       processing capability        $40 million"    $58.83       147.08
million"
7. Number of subprojects    Evaluation     Assure that SIF has enough
evaluated per evaluator  Department     professionals in project         150          119         79.52
evaluation
8. Number of subprojects    Evaluation     Determine relationship of
approved               Department       projects approved to projects   1,700        1,312        77.18
appraised
9. Value of subprojects   Evaluation       Determine project processing
approved               Department       capacity                     $42 million"    $45.67       108.74
million"
10. Percentage of FIS     Evaluation       Determine SIF's overall
financing for         Department       processing capacity              20            23          116
subprojects approved
in "Municipios" priority
A
11. Percentage of FIS     Evaluation       Determine effectiveness of
financing for         Department       FIS targeting strategy           50            46          92
subprojects approved
in "Municipios" priority
A and B
12. Number of subprojects   Evaluation     Determine project processing
canceled              Department       quality control                  40            8           20
Cumulative amounts in US Dollars.



GUAT EMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A5a: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation (1998)
(continued)
i        TARGETS (BASE 1998I
INDICATOR              SOURCE                OBJECTIVE           S_
._________________           _____________________    TARGET              RESULTS;]       %
_________________ NPROJECTS - PfROMOTION & APPRAIS AL
13. Number of Subprojects  Evaluation       Determine SIF's overall
contracted            Department        project processing capacity      1.600         2,416         151
14. Value of Subprojects    Evaluation      Determine SIF's project
contracted            Department        processing capacity          $40.5 million"   $67.28         166
l                 million"l
15. Number of projects    Dept. of Project   Appraise the validity of the    i
contracted at more    Administration    Unit Cost System                  175           935          534
than 10% of appraised
cost               __._ _                                        i
16. Number of subprojects   Dept. of Project   Assure that SIF has enough
contracted per project   Administration  pi of ess onals                  275           259          94
adrninistrator     _                   lI 
_________________ __       SlJPERVISION                                                   I
17. Number of subprojects   Dept. of Control   Determ ne relationship of
started               and Follow-up     projects started to projects     1,600         2,507         157
approved, capacity of
_____________________  _ administration  systems
18. Total cost of         Dept. of Control   Determ ne SIF's overal project
subprojects started   and Follow-up     processing capacity           $40 million"    $67.54         169
million"
19. Number of subprojects   Dept. of Control   Determrne SIF's overall   Equip..: 20
in execution per      and Follow-up     project supervision capacity    Prod. &         13           87
Supervisor                                                           Soc.: 15
I nfr.:8
|20 Number of subprojects   Dept. of Control   Assure that SIF has enough  Equip.: 250
in execution per      and Follow-up     project inspectors           Prod. &            75           47
Supervisor                                                           Soc.: 150
_  _ ____________ _  _      , infr.:  80
21. Number of subprojects   Dept. of Control   Determine overall capacity in 
whose time of          and Follow-up    project control and supe-vision   150           310          207
execution exceeds the
estimate                        .     I
22. Number of subprojects   Dept. of Control   Determine project
suspended because of  and Follow-up     administration quality            75            89           119
default by the
executing agency   _
23. Number of projects     Dept. of Control   Determine overall project                                          I
completed             and Follow-up     administration capacity          1,480         1,889         128
24. Value of subprojects   Dept. of Control   Determine project
canceled              and Follow-up     administration capacity       $37 million"    $35.02         95
= Cumulativl amountsinUSDo .million"
it Cumulative amounts in tJS Dollars.



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A5a: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation (1998)
(continued)
SUPER\VISION
25. Total number of       Dept. of Control   Determine the number of
projects completed at   and Follow-up  projects which had cost          150           97          65
more than 10% of                       overruns
appraised cost
26. Average number of     Dept. of Control   Determine SIF and Executing   Infr.: 6 months
months to complete    and Follow-up    Agency capacity             Equip.: 5      6.6 months      110
projects                                                           months
Soc.: 9 months
TARGETING
27. Total Disbursements    Dept. of        Determine FIS investment
FIS                   Finance and      capacity for the year        $34 million"   $34 million"   100
Administration
28. FIS Average monthly    Dept. of        Determine FIS investment
disbursements         Finance and      capacity                     $2.8 million"   $3.8 million"  134
I __________________________    Administration
29. Number of subprojects   Dept. of       Determine SIF's processing
closed                Finance and      capacity and determine cost     1,320        2,312        175.15
Administration   relationship of projects closed
against projects completed
30. Number of Subprojects  Dept. of        Determine SIF's processing
with processing time    Finance and    capacity and determine cost   $33million"      26           79
higher than 30 days   Administration   relationship of projects closed
between Effectiveness                  against projects completed
and Site visit dates.
31. Number of subprojects   Dept. of       Determine SIF's overal
in actual             Promotion and    processing capacity              250          714          286
execution/Number of    Evaluation
Supervisors
32. Number of subprojects   Dept. of       Determine SIF's overal
with processing time  Promotion and    processing capacity              250          161           64
greater than 45 days    Evaluation
between field visit and
Subproject approval by
Technical Committee
33. Number of subprojects   Dept. of       Determine project processing              Dir. Hir.: 782   Dir. Hir.:
whose processing time  Administration  capacity                         250      Quot. Civil    293%
exceeds department                                                               Works: 513    Quot. Civil
norms                                                                            Bid. Civil   Works:
Works: 147    206%
Bid. Civil
Works: 59%
Cumulative arnounts in US Dollars.



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A5a: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation (1998)
(continued)
I  _   i   TARGES (BASE 1998)
_NDICATOR              SOURCE                OBJECTIVE
________________         ____________________           ~~~~~~TARGET  RESULTS 
1-ARGETING
34. Number of subprojects   Dept. of Control   Determine project processing
with processing time   and Follow-up    capacitj                          250           266          106
greater than 21 days
between contract
signing and execution
35. Administrative         Dept. of         Determine SIF's administrative
expenses as a percent  Finance and      efficiency                         8            8.6          108
of Total Costs        Administration
36. Employment generated   Project          Determine number of months
of person-months       Database         of employment generated      77,500 person-    101,250       131
months
37. Beneficiaries of FIS   Project          Determine population target
Investments           database          which t,enefited from FIS     $3.2 million    $3.1 million   97
Investments                    persons       persons
Cumulative amounts in IJS Dollars.



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A6a: Project Costs
1993 to October 31, 1998
I.      Subprojects
Component
ASocial assistance                10.9          2.7    13.6    18.9         0.8           19.7
B. Social infrastructure         24.4          8&9    33.3    99.2          0.0          99.2
C. Economic infrastructure         9.8          4.5    14.3    13.9         0.0           13.9
D. Productive sector               5.9          0.9      6.8      1.8       0.0            1.8
E. Special Projects                                               2.2       0.0            2.2
Subtotal    51.0          17.0    68.0   136.1         0.8         136.9
II.   FIS Administration
Component'
A. Operating cost                  5.0          0.2      5.2
B. Equipment                       0.4          0.2      0.6
C. Technical assistance to         0.4          1.0      1.4
FIS
D. Monitoring & evaluation         0.3          0.3      0.6
Contingencies for TA &         0.1          0.1      0.2
Equipment
Subtotal      6.2          1.8      8.0      0.0       0.0            0.0
III.    Strengthening of           2.0          2.0      4.0
Sponsoring &
Executing Agencies
Total Project Cost    53.0           19.0    72.0   136.1         0.8          136.9
*Exchange rate (Average) -> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Direcci6n de Informrtica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
FIS was unable to provide data on Operating Costs because they cannot disaggregate costs associated with
administration of the Bank project from those associated with administration of other loans and credits.



GUATEIMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENIT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A6b: Project Financing
1993 to October 31, 1998
Appraisal            Actual/Latest
Estimate              Estimate
_____   (US$ million)          (U$$ million)
item         Local Forign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
Costs  Costs           Costs  Costs _
IBRD Ln. 3534-Gl)          11.2     8.8   20.0   19.2    0.8   20.0
IRDB Donacion Japonesa      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.2    0.0    0.2
Cofinancing Institutions
BCIE                        4.7     5.3   10.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Government of Germany -    12.0     6.0   18.0   18.2    0.3   18.4
KFW
UNDP                        0.0     0.7    0.7    0.0    0.0    0.0
Subtotal   27.9    20.8   48.7   37.5    1.1   38.6
Other External Resources
ID                          8.0     0.0    8.0   42.3    0.0   42.3
B
OPEC                        0.0     0.0    0.0    4.5    0.0    4.5
OECF                        0.0     0.0    0.0   26.2    0.0   26.2
Subtotal    8.0     0.0    8.0   73.0    0.0   73.0
Domestic Contributions
Government of Guatemala    11.3     0.0   11.3   44.4    0.0   44.4
Beneficiaries               8.0     0.0    8.0   15.9    0.0   15.9
Sponsoring Agencies         4.0     0.0    4.0    6.6    0.0    6.6
(NGOs, municipalities,
and
others)
Subtotal   23.3     0.0   23.3   66.9      0.0   66.9
Total Project Cost   59.2    20.8   80.0  177.4    1.1  178.4
.Exchange rate (Average) --> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Direccion de Finarizas
Date:30 de octubre de 1998



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A7: Status of Legal Covenants
IBRD 35340  3.01 (a)     4         C                              Borrower should furnish to SIF funds.   These requirements should be met continuously.
facilities, and services required for the
Project, including proceeds of the Credit.
3.01 (b)    5        C                               SIF should maintain adequate staff.     This requirement should be met continuously
3.01 (c)    5        C      03/28/1994               SIF should enter into Cooperation      None.
Agreements with Ministries to ensure
sustainability.
3.01 (d)    1 1      C      03/28/1994               Borrower shall make proceeds of loan   None.
available as a grant.
3.01 (e)    11      NC                               Borrower should exercise rights under  In practice, incremental recurrent costs are not being
Cooperation and Subsidiary Agreements.   incorporated into line ministries' budgets
3.02      10        C     03/28/1994               Procurement to follow schedule 4.       None.
3.03 (a)    9        C      12/31/1994               Bank and SIF should undertake joint review  Review held annually
of progress.
3.03 (b)    9        CP                              SIF should take remedial action to remedy   None.
problems detected during annual review.
3.04       3        C     03/28/1994               No more than 10% for productive         None.
subprojects.



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A7: Status of Legal Covenants
(continued)
Agreement   Section  Covenant Prsent   Original          Revised                       ription of                                Comments
type     staus   fiuli iment   fulfilment                  covenant
daie         date
3.05 (a)     5        C      03/28/1994                SIF shall enter into TA Agreement for Part  None.
B of project.
3.05 (b)     5        C      03/28/1994                Borrower shall exercise rights under para.   None.
3.05 (a) and 6.01(e).
4.01 (b) i    I        C      12/31/1994                Have records audited.                    None.
4.01 (b) ii   I        C      04/01/1995                Furnish copies of audit report to Bank    None.
4.02        1      Soon   11/15/1994                  Furnish quarterly physical and financial  Concurrent audit contract signed recently and first
audits of subprojects.                   audit underway.
5.01 (f)     3        C      09/29/1994   04/27/1995  Enter into KfW loan agreement 6 months    None.
after effective date.
5.01 (f)     3       NC    03/2X/1 995                 Fntsr into BCIP Ioan aoremet 19 -nths  Mr attractive aternat_           fandg agrcd, and
after Effective date.                    therefore condition redundant.
Covenant types:
I.   Accounts/audits                                  8.    Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                 10.   Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds            11. -  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                       allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency   12. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
6. =  Environmental covenants                                   action
7. =  Involuntary resettlement                         13. =  Other
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD   = complied with after delay
CP   = complied with partially
NC   = not complied with



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Weeks                  US$
Preparation'              117.2              298,079.00
Appraisal                10.3                28,573.00
Negotiations2              63.9               167,508.00
Supervision              113.0               334,442.00
Completion                0.2                 2,264.00
TOTAL                   304.6               830,866.00
Project preparation was initiated in 1988 and stalled by political events in 1989.
2 The loan agreement was negotiated twice; once in 1989 and again in 1992.



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A9: Bank Resources: Missions
Perf.rmatic Rating
Nutmber                       Specialized              Implementawim           )Development Obetives
Ste of             Montw          .f         Days in          StalfSkills                  Stt                                                           of
Project Cycle         Year       Persos         Field           Rpsented                                                                               Problems
1. Through Appraisal:      12/88          1           11        Mission Coordinator-                S                            S                Identification.
IJNDP.
Identification/Preparation
2.                        01-02/89       14            21       Mission Coordinator -               S                            S                Creation of Social Investment
UNDP Consultant                                                                  Fund
3       Group Coordinator:
Ilealth, Education &
Nutrition.
Nutrition Specialist
Economist
Consultant - Educ.
Statistics Specialist
Social Infr. Specialist
Consultant - Proc.
Health & Educ. Spec.
Urban Specialist
Social Infrastructure
Coordinator
SPRIE Consultant
Institutional Arrang.
3.                        05-06/89       4             3        Consultant UNDP                     S                            S
Operations Officer
IDB Desk Officer for
Guatemala



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A9: Bank Resources: Missions (cont.)
4.                       07/89         12           20        Consultant UNDP-                S                       S
Mission Coordinator
Urban Specialist
Urban Inst. Consultant
Consult. - Audits
Operations Officer
RUTA Consultant
Financial Mngmt
Economist
Menu Operations
Wat. & Sanit. Consult.
Wat. & Sanit. Consult
Rural Roads Consult.
5.                       08/89          1            4        Consultant- Soc.                S                       S
Funds Specialist
6. Pre-appraisal          11/89        11           17        Mission Coordinator,            S                       S
Consultant UNDP
Operations Officer
Financial Mngmnt.
Consultant RUTA
Urban Specialist
Urban Specialist
Consultant - Audit
Economist
Consultant - Co-
Financing Spec.



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A9: Bank Resources: Missions (cont.)
Pcrfoqmance Raring
Numotb.                        Specialized           Implemenlation,     Developoient Objectives
Stag of           Montw          of          Days in          SaffSkills                Statas                                                        Typeaof
Project Cyck          Year       Persons        Field           Reptesened                                                                              Problem
7. Appraisal through      01/90          9             7        UNDP Consultant.                  S                       S
Board Approval                                                  Mission Coordinator
Operations Officer
Fin. & Org. Mngmt.
Consultant - RUTA
Urban Specialist
Consultant- Fin.
Mngmt.
Consultant - Urban Sp.
Economist
Legal Counsel
8.                        02/90          1             3        Urban Specialist                  S                       S
9.                         06/90         3            20        Consultant                        S                       S
Consultant
Consultant
10.                       07/91          1             3        Urban Specialist                 S                        S
11.                       07/91          4            17        Voljc - Consultant               S                        S
Tuncer - Consultant
RUTA Consultant
Axel Van Trotsenburg
- LA2C2
12.                       02/92          2            12        Mission Coordinator              S                        S
Operations Officer    I



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A9: Bank Resources: Missions (cont.)
13. Supervision 1          4/93          1             8        Task Manager                    S (2)                   S (2)            Staffing was a major problem and the Bank's
concem that this be given highest priority was
conveyed to the Executive President in the Aide
Memoire.
14. Supervision 2          2/94          4             4        Task Manager                      S                       S              Project Launch Workshop (Feb. 16-18'1994).
Legal Counsel
Procurement Specialist
Disbursement Officer
15. Supervision 3          3/94          1             6        Task Manager                      S                       S
16. Supervision 4          7/94          1             7        Task Manager                      S                       S
17. Supervision 5        03-04/95        6             6        Task Manager                      S                       S              First Annual Review.
Economist
Education Specialist
Anthropologist
Sociologist
Anthropologist
18. Supervision 6         6/1995         2                      Task Manager                      S                       S
New Task Manager
19. Supervision 7         7/1995         1             4        Task Manager                      S                       S
20. Supervision 8         1(0/1995       2             3        Task Manager                      S                       S
New Task Man. - W.S.



GUATEMALA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3534-GU)
Table A9: Bank Resources: Missions (cont.)
Perfomiatice Rating
NumW                             Spied                     .   nentition            --     DeveleptnntObjedives
Stage of           Mont            of          Days in            StaffSkills                     Stats.                                                               Types of
PfojectCycle           Year        Pceons          Fieid            Represcnted                                                                                          Peoblems
21. Supervision 9            3/96          5              7         Task Manager                            S                                 HS
Procurement
Social Participation
Water, Supply
/Sanitation
NGOs
22. Supervision 10          9/96           3              5         Task Manager                            S                                 S
Operations
Engineer
23. Supervision 11           5/97          6          1-3 weeks    Task Manager                             S                                 S                    Ansnual Project Review.
Menu Operations
Community Banks
Planning
Engineering
Stakeholders Assessment
24. Supervision 12          10/97          6              9         Task Manager                            S                                 S
New Task Man. - J W
Menu Operations
Financial Management
NGO's
Management
Water, Supply & San.
25. Supervision 13           6/98                                   Task Manager                            S                                 S
Sociologist,Water
Specialist
Project Assistant



Table B2a: Comparison between Planned and Approved Resource Allocation
by Poverty Level2'
1993 to December 31, 1997
(US$ million)
Extreme                          32               11.6              16.3               15.4
Severe                           72               24.3              25.0               29.6
Regular                         101               33.9              25.1               30.4
Relative                         80               21.6              10.9               16.8
Low                              45                8.5               2.6                3.9
Total                     330              100.0              80.0               96.2
*Exchange rate (Average) --> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Informatica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
Table B2b: Comparison between Planned and Approved Resource Allocation
by Poverty Level2'
January-October 1998
(US$ million)
ote4 Lvet Nuob~N
Extreme                          52               17.3              16.3               17.1
Severe                           93               25.3              25.0               15.3
Regular                          77               27.2              25.1               14.8
Relative                         83               22.1              10.9               12.6
Low                              25                8.1               2.6                4.7
Total                     330              100.0              80.0               64.4
*Exchange rate (Average) -> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Informmtica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
2' FIS originally used the 1981 census data for poverty categories. When the data from the 1994 census became available,
poverty categories were adjusted to reflect unsatisfied basic needs identified in 1994.



Table B3a: Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level2
1993 to December 31,1997
:ipercent)
Rt*aul     P1,u.4    *90*       49.5.     190$91991           Tote
Extreme ..<<    
Amount approved                  11.6      20.4       0.9       4.1      3.1       8.0       16.0
Number of subprojects                      _         4.1       5.5       4.4       5.2      19.2
Severe
Amount approved                  24.3      31.3       0.9       6.7       7.7      15.5     30.8
Number of subprojeacts                     _         4.6        8.8      8.0      10.6      32.0
Regular
Amount approved                  33.9      31.4       0.8       5.8       6.7      18.4     31.6
Number of subprojiacts                     _          3.7       8.3      5.8      11.4      29.3
Relative
Amount approved                  21.6      13.6       0.6       4.5       4.7      7.7       17.5
Number of subprojects                        _        0.9       5.7      4.4       5.3      16.2
Low
Amount approved                   8.5      :3.2       0.1       0.7       1.2       2.0      4.0
Number of subprojects                        _        0.1       0.9       1.0       1.4      3.3
Total
Amount approved                 100.0    100.0        3.3      21.7     23.4      51.6    100.0
Number of subprojects                                13.4     29.2      23.5      33.9    100.0
Source: Informrtica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
21 FIS originally used the 1981 census data for poverty categories. When the data from the 1994 census became available,
poverty categories were adjusted to reflect unsatisfied basic needs identified in 1994.



Table B3b: Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level2'
January-October 1998
(percent)
Extreme                               17.3
Amount approved                                       20.4                                        26.5
Number of subprojects                                                                             24.8
Severe                                25.3
Amount approved                                       31.3                                        23.7
Number of subprojects                                                                             23.0
Regular                               27.2
Amount approved                                       31.4                                        23.0
Number of subprojects                                                                             21.3
Relative                              22.1
Amount approved                                       13.6                                         19.5
Number of subprojects                                                                             22.8
Low                                     8.1
Amount approved                                        3.2                                          7.3
Number of subprojects                                                                               8.0
Total                     100.0
Amount approved                                      100.0                                       100.0
Number of subprojects                                                                            100.0
.Exchange rate (Average) -> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Inforrnatica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
21 FIS originally used the 1981 census data for poverty categories. When the data from the 1994 census became available,
poverty categories were adjusted to reflect unsatisfied basic needs identified in 1994.



Table B3c: Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level'
1993 to Decernber 31,1997
(percent)
Poveuty Lievl        Nrcent -- roent          .
Rura.       Planed    1994    11"$        1996      1997
Population     19I3                                  _______
Extreme
Amount approved                  11.6      20.4      26.3      18.9     13.1      15.5
Number of subprojec._                               30.8      18.9      18.5      15.4
Severe
Arnount approved                 24.3      31.3      27.2      30.9     33.0      30.0
Number of subprojects                               34.4      30.0      34.0      31.2
Regular
Amount approved                  33.9      31.4      24.8      26.5     28.5      35.6
NLmber of subprojects                               27.7      28.3      24.8      33.8
Relative
Amount approved                  21.6      13.6      19.4      20.5     20.2       14.9
Number of subprojects                                 6.6     19.6      18.6      15.5
Low
Amount approved                   8.5       3.2       2.3       3.2       5.2       3.9
Number of subprojects                  __             0.5       3.2      4.1       4.0
Total
Amount approved                 100.0    10CO.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Number of subprojects                              100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Source: Informatica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
21 FIS originally used tie 1981 census data for poverty categories. When the data from the 1994 census became available,
poverty categories were adjusted to reflect unsatisfied basc needs identified in 1994.



Table B3d: Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level2'
January-October 1998
(percent)
Extreme                                 17.3
Amount approved                                         20.4               26.5
Number of subprojects                                                     24.8
Severe                                 25.3
Amount approved                                         31.3               23.7
Number of subprojects                                                      23.0
Regular                                27.2
Amount approved                                         31.4               23.0
Number of subprojects                                                     21.3
Relative                               22.1
Amount approved                                         13.6               19.5
Number of subprojects                                                      22.8
Low                                      8.1
Amount approved                                          3.2                7.3
Number of subprojects                                                       8.0
Total                      100.0
Amount approved                                        100.0              100.0
Number of subprojects                                                     100.0
*Exchange rate (Average) --> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Informrtica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
21 FIS originally used the 1981 census data for poverty categories. When the data from the 1994 census became available,
poverty categories were adjusted to reflect unsatisfied basic needs identified in 1994.



Table B4a: Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level2'
1993 to December 31, 1997
(US$ million)
P;ViOurty Lev-el      Pocnt I  I   Pand:
Ru-rl       1993      199       1995      1996      1997      Total.
_ __   _  _  _  _  _     PMo pul ti.                                          _ _ _._=_
Extreme
Amount approved                  11.6      16.3       0.8       3.9       3.0       7.7      15.4
Number of subprojects                                244       326       258       309     1,137
Severe
Amount approved                  24.3      25.0       0.9       6.5       7.4      14.9     29.6
Number of subprojects                  __            273       518       473       626     1,890
Regular
Amount approved                  33.9      25.1       0.8       5.5       6.4      17.7      30.4
Number of subprojects                       _        220       488       345       677     1,730
Relative
Amount approved                  21.6      10.9       0.6       4.3       4.5       7.4      16.8
Number of subprojects                                 52       338       259       311       960
Low
Amount approved                   8.5       2.6       0.1       0.7       1.2       2.0       3.9
Number of subprojects                                  4        55        57        81       197
Total
Amount approved                 100.0      80.0       3.1      20.9      22.5     49.7       96.2
Number of subprojects                        _       793     1,725     1,392     2,004     5,914
*Exchange rate (Average) -> US$I = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Inforrnatica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
2' FIS originally used the 1981 census data for poverty categories. When the data from the 1994 census became available,
poverty categories were adjusted to reflect unsatisfied basic needs identified in 1994.



Table B4b: Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level2'
January-October 1998
(US$ million)
l Extreme                              17.3l
lAmount approved                                      16.3            17.1l
Number of subprojects                                                 5171
Severe                                 25.3
Amount approved                                       25.0           15.3
Number of subprojects                                                 480
Regular                                27.2
Amount approved                                       25.1           15.3
Number of subprojects                                                 444
Relative                               22.1
Amount approved                                       10.9           12.6
Number of subprojects                                                 475
RLow                                    8.1
Amount approved                                        2.6             4.7
Number of subprojects                                                 167
Total                     100.0
Amount approved                                       80.0           64.4
Number of subprojects                                               2,083
*Exchange rate (Average) --> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Informatica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
21 FIS originally used the 1981 census data for poverty categories. When the data from the 1994 census became available,
poverty categories were adjusted to reflect unsatisfied basic needs identified in 1994.



Table B4b: Approved Subproject Financing by Poverty Level2'
January-October 1998
(US$ million)
Amount approved                                       16.3           17.1
Number of subprojects                                                 517
|Severe                                25.3_
|Amount approved                                      25.0           15.3
Number of subprojects                 __.                             480
Regular                               27.2
Amount approved                                       25.1           14.8
Number of subprojects                     _                           444
Relative                              22.1
Amount approved                                       10.9            12.6
Number of subpro jects                                                475
Low                                     8.1_
Aniount approved                                       2.6            4.7l
Number of subprojects                                                 167
Total                     100.0
Amount approved                                       80.0           64.4
Number of subprojects                                               2,083
'Exchange rate (Average) -> US$i = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Informrtica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
2/ FIS originally used the 1981 census data for poverty categories. When the data from the 1994 census became available,
poverty categories were adjusted to reflect unsatisfied basic needs identified in 1994.



Table B5a: Contracted Subprojects by Program and Poverty Allocation
1993 to December 31, 1997
(US$ million)
Social Assistance                      2,393              11.9            1,248              4.9
Social Infrastructure                  2,173              53. 1            885              19.7
Economic Infrastructure                   94               4.1               31               1.0
Productive Activities                     87               1.0               36              0.5
Special Projects                            1              2.2                0              0.0
Total                       4,748             72.3            2,200              26.1
*Exchange rate (Average) --> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Informatica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998
Table B5b: Contracted Subprojects by Program and Poverty Allocation
January-October 1998
(US$ million)
:m - E
Social Assistance                        912               7.8              390              3 3
Social Infrastructure                   1,438             46.1              716             21.6
Economic Infrastructure                  121               9.9               67              6.1
Productive Activities                     97               0.7               65              0.5
Special projects                            0              0.0                0              0.0
Total                       2,568             64.51           1,238              31.5
*Exchange rate (Average) --> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Informatica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998



Table B6: Subprojects under Contract by Program and Type
1993 to October 31, 1998
Program                      NO. of   tet  Amount Percent of
Subprojects of Total (US$MM)   Total
No.              Amount
Social Assistance_
EQUIPAMIENTO EIN SALUD                              350      4.8       2.1       1.5
CAMPANAS DE PREVE/CONTROL ENF.                       19      0.3       0.1       0.1
CAP. DOT. EQUI Y ORG.COMADRONAS                      19      0.3       0.2       0.1
TRADICIONALES
CAP.DOT.DE EQUI.Y ORG.DE PERSONAL DE SALUD           41      0.6       0.4       0.3
DOT.INI.MEDICAMENTOS A FARMACIAS COMUNI.            112      1.5       0.7       0.5
CONT. TEMP. PROMOTORES DE                            34      0.5       0.1       0.1
SALUD/PARAMEDICOS
DESPARASITACION                                      18      0.2       0.0       0.0
SUPLEMENTACICON DE MICRONUTRIENTES                   53      0.7       0.2       0.2
ESPECIFICAS
EDUCACION ALIMENTARIA NUTRICIONAL                     1      0.0       0.0       0.0
ALIMENTACION C OMPLEMENTARIA PARA MENORES           142      1.9       0.5       0.4
EQUIPAMIENTO DE CENTRO EDUCATIVOS DEL              1,686    23.0       7.9       5.8
NIVEL
DOTACION DE TEXTOS BASICOS Y DE MATERIAL             84      1.1       1.2       0.9
DID.
CONTRATACION TEMPORAL DE MAESTROS; EN               175      2.4       0.9       0.6
FORMA
DESARROLLO, CAPACITACION Y ACTUALIZ. DIRECT.         10      0.1       0.1       0.1
DESARROLLO CAPACITACION Y ACTUALIZ.                  37      0.5       1.0       0.7
DOCENTES
EQUIPAMIENTO DE CENTROS DE CAPACITPARA               11      0.2       0.3       0.2
TRAB.
CONTRATACION DE INSTRUCTORES EN FORMA                10      0.1       0.1       0.1
TEMP.
PROGRAMAS DE ALFABETIZACION Y POST-                 108      1.5       0.5       0.4
ALFABETIZ.
DESARROLLO ORGANIZACIONAL DE GRUPOS SIN              10      0.1       0.2       0.2
PERS.
DESARROLLO INSTITUCIONAL PARA LA TRANSF.             54      0.7       0.4       0.3
EFIS
FINANCIAMIENTO DE PROYECTOS DE                      132      1.8       1.8       1.3
PREINVERSION G
FINANCIAMIENTO PREINVERSION AGUA                     97      1.3       0.5       0.3
FINANCIAMIENTO PREINVERSION                          67      0.9       0.6       0.4
INFRAESTRUCTLJRA
FINANCIAMIENTC) PREINVERSION PRODUCTIVOS             35      0.5       0.1       0.1
Subtotal     3,305     45.2      19.7     14.4



(continued)
Social lnfraestructure
CONSTRUCCION EN SALUD                                  122      1.7       3.7        2.7
CONSTRUCCION EN EDUCACION                            2,095     28.6      62.1       45.4
CONSTRUCCION DE CENTROS DE CAPACIT. PARA                13      0.2       0.6        0.4
TRAB
LETRINIZACION                                         384       5.2       7.3        5.3
ALCANTARILLADO SANITARIO                               29       0.4        1.9       1.4
SISTEMAS DE DRENAJES                                     2      0.0       0.2        0.1
SISTEMA DE ABASTECIMIENTO DE AGUA                      234      3.2       10.8       7.9
FORESTACION Y REFORESTACION                             18      0.2       0.6        0.4
ESTUFAS MEJORADAS                                     713       9.7      12.0        8.8
ILAVADEROS PUBLICOS                                      1      0.0        0.0       0.0
Subtotal      3,611     49A       99.2      72.5
Economic lnfraestructure
CAMINOS DE ACCESO                                       39      0.5       7.3        5.3
PUENTES PEQUEN4OS Y BOVEDAS EN CAMINOS DE              112      1.5       4.0        2.9
ACC.
SISTEMAS DE MINI-RIEGO                                 49       0.7        1.9       1.4
CENTRO DE ACOPIO, ALMACENAMIENTO Y                      14      0.2       0.7        0.5
PROC.PRIM.
REACONDICIONAMIENTO DE CAMINOS                           1      0.0       0.0        0.0
COFINANCIADOS
Subtotal       215       2.9      13.9       10.2
Productive Activities
BANCOS COMUNALES                                       184      2.5        1.8       1.3
Subtotal       184       2.5       1.8        1.3
Special Projects
Proyectos Especiales                                     1      0.0       2.2        1.6
Subtotal         1       0.0       2.2        1.6
Total      7,316    100.0     136.9      100.0
*Exchange rate (Average) --> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Informatica
Date:27 de octubre de 1998



Table B7: Disbursements by Program
1993 to Clctober 31, 1998
(US$ million)
Program            199i      19F*     19       19       1997   i"i11           I
Social Assistance
Amount (US$ million)            0.0      C.3      1.6       3.8      4.1       6.3     16.2
Percent                        0.0      62.4     20.7     23.8      18.3     13.4      17.2
Social lnfraestructure
Amount (US$ million)           0.0       0.2      5.7     11.8      17.1     33.3      68.0
Percent                        0.0      37.6     74.7     72.9      75.8     70.5      72.3
Economic lnfraestructure
Amount (US$ million)            0.0      0.0      0.2       0.4      1.1       5.8      7.6
Percent                        0.0       0.0      3.2      2.7       4.8     12.3       8.1
Productive Activities
Amount (US$ million)            0.0      0.0      0.1       0.1      0.2       0.6      1.1
Percent                        0.0       0.0      1.4      0.5       1.1      1.3       1.1
Special Projects
Amount (US$ million)            0.0      (1.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       1.2      1.2
Percent                         0.0     01.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      2.5       1.2
Total
Amount (US$ million)            0.0      0.5      7.6      16.1     22.5     47.2      94.1
Percent                        0.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
*Exchange rate (Average) --> US$1 = 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Informatica
Date:28 de octubre de 15E



Table B8: Number of Subprojects Beneficiaries, Employment Generated, and Subproject Cost,
1993 to October 31,1998
Social Assistance
Amount (US$ million)                0.0          1.7         6.2         3.1          5.1        17.1          33.2
Number of subprojects                 0         736        1,173         594         477          517         3,497
Number of beneficiaries               0      219,112    2,594,617    2,207,135    1,830,059    1,663,570    8,564,493.0
Employment generated               0.00     6,255.96    24,893.03    12,442.45    13,073.17    52,750.18    109,414.79
Average subproject cost            0.00     2,375.22     5,258.75    5,294.34    10,690.33    33,053.28     9,507.96
Social lnfraestructure
Amount (US$ million)                0.0          1.3        14.0        18.6         36.8         15.3         85.9
Number of subprojects                 0          53         508          759        1,349         480         3,149
Number of beneficiaries               0      36,105      254,816     449,434      848,666     585,969    2,174,990.0
Employment generated               0.00     4,320.20    64,373.40   113,755.16   157,614.45    78,925.61    418,988.82
Average subproject cost            0.00    23,963.03    27,498.24    24,514.34    27,272.09    31,810.08   27,279.90
Economic lnfraestructure
Amount (US$ million)                0.0          0.1         0.5         0.5          7.1        14.8          23.0
Numberof subprojects                  0           4           14          16         108          444           586
Number of beneficiaries               0       10,483      14,007      16,382      227,447     370,916     639,235.0
Employment generated               0.00      308.04     2,276.50     3,553.94    46,117.20    85,520.37    137,776.05
Average subproject cost            0.00    30,146.54    36,636.88    31,518.37    65,455.80    33,324.86   39,254.71
Productive Activities
Amount (US$ million)                0.0          0.0         0.2         0.3          0.7        12.6          13.8
Number of subprojects                 0           0          30           23          70          475           598
Number of beneficiaries               0           0       13,830         989        2,976       3,260      21,055.0
Employment generated               0.00         0.00    3,475.68     2,221.57    6,568.89    91,902.46    104,168.60
Average subproject cost            0.00         0.00     8,023.18    12,145.07    10,043.15    26,424.27   23,034.42



Table B8: Number of Subprojects Beneficiaries, Employment Generated, and Subproject Cost,
1993 to October 31, 1i998
(continued)
Sector                1993         1884         1995          186          1991         1998          Total
Special Projects
Amount (US$ million)                   0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0          4.7            4.7
Nurnber of subproiects                  0             0            0            0             0          167            167
Number of beneficiaries                 0             0            0            0             0       10,000       10,000.0
Employment generated                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00    11,453.35      11,453.35
Average subproject cost               0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00    28,122.47      28,122.47
Total Amount (US$ million)             0.0          3.1         20.9         22.5          49.7         64.4          160.6
Total No. of Subprojects                0           793        1,725        1,392         2,004        2,083          7,997
Total No. of Beneficiaries              0       265,700    2,877,270    2,673,940    2,959,148     2,633,715     11,409,773
Total Emplomen Generated              0.001   10,884.20    95,018.61    131,973.12    223,373.71    320,551.97   781,801.61
*Exchange rate (August 1992) --> US$1 6.0 Quetzales
Source: Informatica
Date:30 de octubre de 1998



Table B9: Subprojects under Contract by Program and Type - FIS Staffing
1993 to October 31, 1998
Central Office
Executive                        7           8           12          14       14      4
Management                                                                     7      7
Technical                       33           56         63           62       76      45
Support                         26          41          51           55        16     42
Subtotal                66          105         126         131       113     98
Field Offices
Executive
Management
Technical                        4           16          19          28       26       2
Support                                      4           5           5        26      17
Subtotal                 4          20          24          33        52      19
Total                70          125         150         164       165    117



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29959
f G                                       U                                       A T                                                                        E M ALA, it  900  880
GUATEMALA                                                               7
LEVEL OF RURAL POVERTY 
~~~~                      0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
92~o.&HONDU~(                       ;',- 18'0  X00000200:0o.00  5              150l                                                                  F
NICARAGL~A  KILOMETERS                -                                 ,                  18
920 
This mop was produced by the                                                                                                                     <
Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.   --    
The boijndories, calors, denominantions
and onyather information shown on this
mop do not imply, on the port of TheE
World Bank Group, any ludgmont on
the legal status of any territory, or any
boundaries.
~RURAL POVERTY W4 GUAHONDURAS
(MAY2~~~~ j~~~9$ ~EL SALVADOR
OCOE  199



