Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 11060-GU
Report No.: 11060-GU        Type: (SAR.
Title:  SOCIAL INVESTIIENT FUND
Author: JOHN NEWMAN
Ext.:39247 Room:I-7127 Dept.::LA2HR
THIS REPORT SUPERCEDES RPT. 8484-GU/P
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUATEMALA
SOCTAL INVESTHNT FUND PROJECT
NOVEMER 5, 1992
Country Department II
Hhman Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This dooment has a restdied ditibudon and may be used by reipienS only in the pedormance of
their officiwI dties. Its conte0ts may no otherwise be dbilosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



CURENCY & EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - Quetzal (Q)
US$1 - 5.19 Quetzales (August 1992)
WEIGHTS & MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha) - 10,000 m2
1 Metric ton (mt) - 1,000 kg
1 Kilometer (km) - 1,000 m
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
ASINDES   Association of major NGOs (Asociaclon de Entidades de
Desarrollo)
BCIE   Central American Bank for Economic Integration (Banco
Centroamericano de Integracion Economica)
DGC   General Road Directorate (Direccl6n General de Caminos)
ECLAC   UN Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean
EML  Economic Modernization Loan
ESF   Bolivian Social Investment Fund
FHIS   Honduran Social Investment Fund
FISE  Nicaraguan Social Investment Fund
FONAPAZ   National Fund for Peace (Fondo Nacional para La Paz)
GIS  Geographical I.,formation System
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Develo nent
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
IDB   Inter-American Development Bank
MFP  International Monetary Fund
INCAP  Nutrition In'titute for Central America and Panama
(Instituto & tricional para Centroamerica y Panama)
INE  National Institute of Statistics (Instituto Naclonal de
Estadistica)
KfW  German Credit Institute for Reconstruction (Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau)
LCB   Local Competitive Bidding
MIS  Management Information System
MOE  Ministry of Education
MOF  Ministry of Finance
MOH  Ministry of Health
NGO  Non-Governmental Organization
OPEC   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
SEGEPLAN   National Planning Ministry (Secretariat General de
Planificacion)
SOE   Statement of Expenditures
SIF   Guatemalan Social Investment Fund
SWR   Secretariat for Water Resources
UN  United Nations
UNDP   United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF   United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID   U.S. Agency for International Development



1O1 OFIUCIAL UK OW4L?
SOCIAL £uYwR InD
$TA  APPAhL UPON
TAKEP COUtWU
LOU AD FUCT SWAM=.............................. 
I* SACKOUWD  ..I............. . .*4**.*.                                  *    1
A*    st Owvi                                                           I
S.  P vwewt   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  2  * 3
Co Nee.lth andNutrition  ..................                            3
10 3ntealth. ...... ;                     . '                          4
III. 1111 COV3EWU    STROM  PM MM SOCIAL SUCTOR  *
A * Owveview*****0000**                               *       *0       5
S. Lsone from Xxperience vith Soa Investmet Funds  . ...               7
Coational.eforBank luolvemet                                           8
IV * THR SOCIAL IUVWT5U  FUD***0               000000                          9
A.                                           0C                        9
S. Institutionalo iom                       ****0000                   9
C.ObjectivesandApproach   .................. .   10
CmuitParticipation   .t.l.. . .p.-....                    10
InvolvementofLocalCoverment                                    11
z2volvemst of 300.  0 0 0 0                      0             11
Targetins  . . . . . . . . . . . .             . .             12
SIF Subprojects  0000000000 0 0 0 *                  0 0 0 0   13
D.OrganisatinandStaffing   .................... . .  14
B. Ieplemntation Capacity   .                 . . .0.00  .  .  .      15
7. TheProj¢etCycle   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Promotion, Identificatilo, and Preparation  . . . .   . .    16
Appraisal  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16
Approval 0 * 0 0 0    0 *   a * 0 *   * * * a* 0 *  0 * * # *      17
Implementation ndSupervision  ..............   17
a. Technical Assistance  * * 0 0 * * *     * * *                       18 * * 0 0     0  i1
B. Coordiatio  vith Lin  Minietri a         . . . . . . . .     . . . . .  18
This rport Is based on the findings of a re-appraisal mission that visited
Guatemala  atch 16 to April 1992. Mission members icludd  aes.IMs.ars. J.
WONanD (Mission ler  LAU ),$ S.           o     (LA=R)* T. Campbell (UT!!),
and U. Rmero (Consutant).   A. van Trotsenburg (LA2C2), J.J. de St.nto,
A. Arriaga a, and C. Namann (U12) also contributed on prewiou  misisos.
Th. report incorporates the findings of an earlier appraisal rport on the
Guatemala SIF (Report S484-0). The pee revier was C. Corbett (TASER).
Mr. V. Nguyen (TA222) contributd to the report .t headquarters. Messrs.
amer S. Steckham (LA2) and Nye Woo Le  (UM) are the Department Dirctov
ad Divisio  Chief, respectively, for ths operation.
el     domet bi a strLd dWtbuUod mm be ui by c*sta o*ly to    puftfna
of d.*  a1 dues ts conet may a ctmwis be dis_luu witout Wo. Dnk .a_o-.tk..



J.s.geetlnorationy .t........................... 19
V.* IKJ RCtai ..b..ty  . . . . . . . . .  . . . .         . .. . .  20
As Description    *...e...         *  ....* ...... . ...*..          20
. Av lblity  of Loa Proceeds and Inplmutation
Arrg5 t4    e e. e * #e   # * e e  * e  * * e  O .0 e e e e ee  21
C. Costs  id       in  PIn  . .. . .e. . . .e . . . . . . . . . .  21
Co-w in  .....   .     .  . .     . .     . .   e  e   e  e  e  e.e.e.  .  .  .  23
D.h s=...    e e e e e ee e e e e ee e e e e e   e e e e e    24
3. ADibrMe .t. . . . . . . .   . . . . . .  . . . . . . .    26
P.  Audtin   . e e   e e. .   e . . . . .   e e e e e e e e........  26
G.Monitoring andSup.rvisio   ................. .   27
Contiw"uFok Peed     . .. e e..     e e e e e e e e.. .. e..    .   27
Semi-Annual Reports  . . . . . . . .      .       *. .      .    - . .  28
Annual Revisr. . . . . . . . . . .    .       . . . . .  .   2$
VI*. BDRTS AND RISKS  e......     e e e e e e e e e e e   e....    .   29
A.* I1efit*  e e ee   .e e         e.   . . . .  . .       . e e e  29
Poverty Aleviatior and lutitutional Deveolopmt  . . . .  29
ParticipationofW imen ..................  29
Participation of Indisenous Population     ...... .    .   30
b^t4X~~ffects.................  30
B.* Rieke            . *  C C 0 *     C . . . .. . e e.. .   31
VII .ARIKRKCNBE            mD   . .a .... . e e e *             .. e e e  32
Recamc ndation      ......e.....e................               .   34
1.     Socio-Economwc Indicators
2. *   Government of Guatemala's Letter of Social Sector Devolopment Policy
3.    Draft Outline of Operational Manual
4.    Mban of Subprojects
S.     Geographic Targeting Criteria and Poverty map
6.     Draft Deree Creating SIP
7.     Operation of SIP's Demand-Driven Mehuanim
S.     sIP Organization
9.     SIP Participant.
10.    UUDP Technical Assistance
11.   Term  of Reference for Monitoring and Evaluation Studies
12.   Coat and Plneacing
13.    Procurement
14.   Dilbursments
15.   Key Performance Indicators
16.    Selected Documents Available in Projet Pile
flu-  *1.    ID  No. 24168 - Geographic Targetin
2.     IW No. 24331 - Illiteracy Rate
3.     I3D  No. 24332 - Malnutrition Rate
4.    IBW  No. 24333 - Access to Pot-able Water
S.     MM  to. 24334 - Unpaved Road.



SOCIAL hUihIISUT I=N
SlAW APWEAS   aSPOR
WAS AMD PIWIC  IERY
Republic of Guatemala
S0cl&1 InVestM4Kt lund (SU)
J_ef bliaztj:           Target groups In poor urban and rural communities
US$120.0 milin equivalet
Twety years, lnluding five yers of grace, at the
standard variable interst rate
ft2lga ObAgaft          The objectives of the project are to belp the
Government: (a) creat. a means of responding flexibly
and efficiently to socio--conomic needs as identified
by poor local coamurAties, with specil focUS on
indigeous ¢communities and w om8e groups; (b) target
scarce existing resoures more effectively to iprove
the health, nutrition, bic education, and income-
eaing potential of the poor; and () improve the
coverage and quality of basic health, nutrition and
education services while the line ministries are being
strengthened to better serVe the rural population.
Zraiggt DekgllM's  The proposed project, with a total cost of US$80.0
million, would support the 8IP's operations during the
initial three and a half years of its proposed 8-year
life. It would have three componentst (a) fin
&ro1ects (US$68.0 million, equivalent to 85.0S of
total project cost) covering: (i) social lassstance
subprojects (17.01) including cammuity health, food
and autrition, and basic educstions (i) social
lnfrastructure subprojects (41.6S) focusing on the
rehabilitation and maittenanc  of helth, water,
sanitation, and educatlon infrastructure (iii)
economic infrastructure subprojacts (17.91) itcluding
the rehabilitation of small irrigation systms and
access roadst ad (1v) productive sector subprojects
(8.52) including the capitalization of revolving funds
operated by 1G00 (non-Dank-flnsaced); (b) jW
AdmirltSMian (US$8.0 millioan, equivalent to 1O.O of
total project cost) includitgs (i) operating costs
(6.51); (1i) equipment (0.75X) including vehicles and
computers; (iLi) technical assistance and tranlig for
SIP staff (1.751); (iv) monitoring and evaluation
(0.751); and (v) contingencies for equip*met and
technical assistance (0.252); and (a) $ttbSMol    gf
Sconsorgln and Exec,utin Agenceis (US$4.0 million, or



5.02 of total project cost), ConstintgU of t@ctz.cal
assistance nd qu       t for   stituties end
camnity gwpoe worklin with the 8II.
X_f-a'                 Ry p       4 *roviding    ources to poor urban and rural
oocmtlos, 821 would help tot (1) prevent
deteBioretion In the living atandardc of the poor
during the period of conomic adjustmt; (Ui) improv
basic helt and eucation faclities currently
deteriorated aNW lacksng blsc equipment to operates
(11i) reduce Incidence of water-borne disealse by
expanding coverge of wat-;. and anitation; (iv)
1pove heblth, autrition, and literacy, particularly
among women ed cOUire  and (v) strengthen the
Ccvrne nt'c e3perience with a dacentralized mechnism
for delivering dvelopmt assistance to
unicipaULtiee and small busineess  end mobiliitng
grassroots efforts, which could subsequently be used
by other ageacles.
Risket                 The main risk Is that resources could be diverted to
uses not envisaged in the project. Draing on the
e3pOrIences of the SoliviAn Emer8ncy Social Fund and
Bonduran Social eInvstmet Fund, the project bas
icorporated a good itformation ystem, maintnannce of
a highly competent staff, close supervision, and
reguar auditing into Its design, thereby reducing
this risk substantially. A second risk is that some
cemaunftles ad institutions may not be willing to
participate in  goInr aet progras. However, the
emphasis that bh been placed on transparency of
operations shoult, as the project operates, conVince
these groups to partlelpate. A third risk is the
setting up of an entirely new Institution in a country
with a mixed history of project itplementation. To
counter ths risk, the SIP would be excluded from
civil service restrictions on remueration to enable
thm to attract the best qualified staff. The U%ited
latlons Development Programi (MDP) would also
coordinate an etensive technical assistance program.



c--
Soca A.eatuo  (Mc.du
Cmnity  eatht, Food emd Istuitixo,
an Basi Edu"tion)                     10.9        2.7       13s6
Social Infrostricture, (Ialudi
Health, Vters, Sa"tation, and
zedutio)                              24.4        6.9       33.3
Eonamic Iafratrztuu                       9.8        4.5       14.3
Prodctive Setor                           5.9        0.9        6.8
8TIt   tratl,os  Caont
Operating Costs                           5.0        0.2        5.2
Equipment (vehicles,
copters, etc.)                          0.4        0.2        0.6
Technical Assistance                      0.4        1.0        1.4
Esnitorin  #"l Evaluation                 0.3        0.3        0.4
Contingencies for TA and Equipment        0.1        0.1        0.2
=,t,rth~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                Aagu   z
St-renatbenina of Snonsoria anmd
TOTAL PiC?T COSTl                     S9                    MA2
zo=n                                      RCDQ   LAM            i ,>
Goverament                              11.3         0.0       11.3
Beneficiaries                            8.0         0.0        8.0
Sponmorig Ag4eies
(300,  ¢micipalities and others)       4.0         0.0        4.0
IUD                                     11.2         8.8       20.0
SCIM                                     4.7         5.3       10.0
GeOaMY (KM                              12.0         6.0       18.0
WMDP                                     0.0         0.7        0.7
Other Donors                             8.0         0.0        8.02
Total Financig          2L                    MaQ
1  Net of taxes ad duti".
t i    a Iand OE Fud have epresed preliminaxy interest.



Bank is*oa1 Year                          1     L2&      i     lei  1997
Annual                     3.OV  ~~~i05~ vllion-~
Ann"]  i 48 4.S    4.8    2.6
Cunuti,.                                 3.0    7.8   12.6   17.4   20.0
8CCOUC       or2 01               Nlot applicable
Ilud, the  ntitial deposit of US$2.0 million to the Specil Accont.



SOCIAL INYSIWT  hI
Sgo" APPUAJIAL IEPORT
1.1.   This rp0ot presents a S8oC  Inestmt Fund (SIN) project, for whicb
a lank loan of US$20.0 million to proposed. Total project cost to estimated
at US$80.0 mllion equivalent. Tbis project would support the Governent of
Guatmala's soc"I setor strategy and would help alleviate poverty in
Guatemala's poor comities by using a decentralized mechanism to finance
scial assistac, seial ad economic infratructure, and productive -setor
subprojects proposed by local groups.  The project would target principally
rural cemlmities which, for several decades, have not benefitted from the
oountry'a economic growth and remain In a precarious economic and social
condition. Tha Govemrat views the SU. s a transitional lnstitution
designed to operate efficiently and transparently until the institutional
capacity of lIte ministries has been strengthened sufficiently and their
operations decentralized. The SIU vould operate in close collaboration with
line ministries.
U1. BACRGROUND
A. Overvie
2.1.   Strong inequalities have persisted in virtually all aspects of social
and economic welfare In Guatemala's culturally diverse society since colontal
times . The distribution of income, land and other assets is highly skewed
toward an urbsan, non-Indian mlority. Ton percent of the population earns 44Z
of the lcm  and 2.22 of landowners omn 652 of the arable land. Most of the
remainder of the population lives In poverty and has received little in the
way of investment In socl services and lnfrastructure (Annex 1 provides
general soco-ecenomic Indicators). The inequities in society have
contributed to political violence, wich, over the last docade., has claimed
more than 100,000 lives, and has left over 40,000 refugees and 500,000
internally  displac   poople. The ipact of the violence has been felt mostly
among the rural poor Indian population.
2.2.  Structura1 problem  have been aggravated by the economic and political
crises whic  the country experienced in the first half of the 1980s.  Prior to
the 1980s, Guatemala bad   priced stea   rates of economic growth, low
rates of inflation, a stable currency, a mniaal external debt, and an absence
of balance of paymnts crises. Industrialization efforts made during the
1960 and 1970. bad led to a relatively diversified economic structure.
Mouever, frov 1980-1985 external economic conditions deteriorated and were not
countered by timely adjustments of economic policels.   By 1985, foreign trade
had been disruptedi itflation exceeded 30% and over 402 of the population was
underemployed. InveOtment and saving, had fallen by nearly half, while per
capita ODW was more thew 202 below its 1980 level. The external debt had
tripled and external paymnt arrers amounted to more than US$600 million.
2.3. In 1986 a democratically elected govornment took office after 30 years
of military rule. It adopted a stabilization program and incentive policies



2
which were initially sucessful.  The CDP declin wvs halted In 1986 and
durin 1987, 1988 , and 1989 output grew by 3.11, 3.32, ond 3.12, respectively.
However, the tax refonz of 1987 flled to increase revenue, in a sustainable
smaner, whle expodituret  eWpanded until 1990. The public sctor deficit
rose to 4.72 of GDP In 1990 and infltion Increased steadily until It rached
602 on an annual basi In Decmber 1990.
2.4.   The present administration took offico to 1991-accomplshing the f_ret
peaceful trawfer of the Preidency betwee political parties in the recamt
hietory of Guatemala. Aided by significant growth In non-traditional esports,
private extrnal fliancial inflows, and tight fiscal and monetary pollcelos
the Serrano Administration bea beon able to achiewe relatively low rates of
ilation and stregthen the econolc base. The ona-financLal public sector
deficit vee cut to 1.6X of GDP through temporary inreaes In revenue and
large reductions in ependiture. At the saDO tims, the Governmnt has already
beggn to lncrees Its allocation of reources to the socil soctor . The
GovermnFFt i now soekitg support from the International Monetary Fund (IP)
to consolidate its etabilization efforts, from the Inter-American Development
Dank (MDB) for a financial sector loan, and from the Bank for an economie
odernizatlon Program to modernize its public sector policies. This program
vould further include asinfieant lnreases in expenditures In the social
cantors (para. 3.2).
2.5. With democracy has come the hope that the Government can begin to
attack the social problem which, according to all available indicators, are
asmong the wort In Latin America as discussd below.
2.6. According to a 1989 national survey conducted by the National
Institute of Statistis (Znastleuco Nactonal de XPtadleatea, II), 752 of all
famlis liove below the poverty llue, defined as the cost of a food basket
eufficisat to satisfy nutritional rereents  The most extreme poverty Is
conentrated in the rural a*mas, especally the Wetern BHighland, the
sothesterm regio  and, to a le r extent, the central reSica. Thee ural
ares am heavily populated, contain moat of Guatemala', indigenous
commuities end have the highest cocentration of mlin-fame and the landl es.
Agricultural production Is spread over a large are with much of the
population engage In subsistence farming. The supply of social services
(education, heathl, nutrition, water ad santation, etc.) for theounds of
emall c_,itie  (wlhich ar often difficult to access), is grossly Inadequate
and often non xist. The potentill for inprovent of living conditions,
howevor, does e*ist. Some of these area have the benfit of suitable soll
and cltaatic conditions which permit the production of high value
nontraditional export crops. Thore is also significant potential for *smll-
scaae industriUl and handicraft activities among these poputions which
exhibi strong manual skills.  The cretion of now jobs and higher incomes
bas, however, been hampred by the paueity of physical and social
iftrastructure, the scarcity of financing, Inadequate agricultural extension,
and difficult market access.



3
C. Health and 3trt1.p
2.7.  The heath status of the Guatemalan popation to deficient. Infant
otality (42 deaths pr 1,000 Uve birth.) and matoeal mortality (1.3 per
1,000 1*.. births) are high whe compared with other Latin American countrie.
at a s*nilar stage of development. Contagious diseaes and IllUleee
aeociated With poor hygiene are among the main cause  of death. Over SO0  of
tse death. of chldre  ore related to intestinal and respiratory di*e"se
brouht on by the lak of potable water and owage facilitle , and poor
houain  codition.  In 1989 mortality among children under five va. 102 per
1000 Uve birth., with mot death easily preventable through bettor
saitatiot, as well as vaccination end b"ic priary health are. hin,  the
incidenc  of infaut ad  aternal  ortality to higher among indigenous groups.
Almot 332 of cildrn under the ag  of thre  suffer from chrtic malnutrition
(hap 3).
2.8. the services provided by the Ministry of Iealth (MGR) remin lnimted
In scope. Gort spendg on halth has barely exceeOsd 1S of GDP snce
the a"rly 190.and is concentviAted on recurrent expenditures for largely
curative helth services in the capital are. Serious organizational and
management problem In the MOM, poor program design, and sharp fluctuations
In funding allocations from tbe Ministry of Plnanc (MOP) have plagued efforts
to increa   iuvestment, even when financed by external donors (para. 3.3).
D. &ftaetloa
2.9.  The educational profile of the population i4 tmong the lmoet in Latin
America, particularly when compared to other countrie with siilar iname
level. At 612, net prinay school erollmet is the lowet in the Central
Americn region nd only half of the population completes the sixth grade.
Oly 272 of the children aged 5 end 6 ore enrolled In school. In the rural
area. vith largly indigenou  populations, the educational profile s mch
wors then the national average. OAly 49 out of 100 rural girls are enrollod
In school, compared to 74 out of 100 In urban area. In 1990, 452 of the
populatio  was Illiterate, end in Sme of the poorer rural are. iliteracy
eached 72Z (Anex I end Map 2).
2.10.  Uproving education is especially ceb lag given the Indigenous
coplexity of the society, one of the most diverse In Latin Aerica. About
ooehlf (462) of the population Is indigenous, descendants of the Maysn.
There Ar over 21 soparat lndign"u  groups, each with their own language.
Although most of the indigensus popultion spe     one of three major
indigSen    languaes (Quich, Kachiquel, snd Kkekc¢), the majority of the
indigous popation continues to speak little Spanish whch makes it
difficult for them to take advantage of educational and helth programs
offerd by lie tiistries .  The doph   structure also poses foxmidable
chall e s to education, particularly for wome and children. Almot half
(442) of the population is under 15 years of ag. Many of these chldren aro
located in the g.ogrsphically disprsed and ethnically unique comunities.
2.11. Overall expenditure patterns of the Government havo been
in pprOpriate, with a disproportionstoly large share of education rsources
(241 In 1990) going for higher education, wile almost 402 of the primary
school-age population do not go to school. Salaries and allowances conem



4
the buk of the recurrent budget, tbus leavig only a vey smll portion of
resources for teabing materials and maintenance.  A d4ninishing fraction of
the budget Is deoted to Investment in the sector (122 in 1990, down frm 212
In 1980). Poor amangement contributeo to only 602 of the programmed
Investments actually being disbursed for programs. A very small percentage of
the education budget is devoted to pre-primery education (22 in 1990). The
fact that the Govemnment of Guatemala spent an average of 2*52 of GNP on
education (coupared to a relgionl average of 4.52) throughout the 1960.
further underaco"s the severity of the problem.
2.12.  le-primay programs are critical to improving school retention
because many  ldr   of Andigos commities reach primary school age at a
considerable disavtag because they do not speak Spansh. Since only 5S of
the schools In Guatemala offer bilingual oducetiou, many children frm
indigenous com¢mitie eitlhr do not attend school or, if they do, repeat and
often eventually drop out.
X. Enviroinmetal -Health
2.13. Access to safe water 1s a necessity.  Yet, t1e ON Economic Commissein
for Latin America and tha Caribbean (ECL&C) estimates that 781 of households
in Guatemala hav neither potable water (Map 4) nor a latrine. The principal
causse of Guatemala's hlih infant mortality rate are diarrhea sand paraitic
infections, both of which are related to inadequate water supply and
sanitation. Contagious diseoes and Illnesses associated with poor sanitary
conditions are also a leadig cause of death for adults over 45. Guatemala io
one of the few countries In the Western Hemisphere where that is the case.
There has also been a resurgence of cholera, in common with other countries in
the region. The World Health Organization has reported a recent steep rise i
cholera cases, which had reached 2,437 at the end of December 1991, compared
to only 1,469 a month earlier. The spread of cholera reflects the generally
poor environmetal bhelth conditions.
2.14. There are no sewage treatment plants outsi#de of the capital city. In
all of the rural areas, e"wge to dralned directly Into lakes and rivers
without treatment, resulting in high levels of contamination whach contributo
significantly not only to higher Incidence of infant mortality and disease,
but also to severe eviro mtal degradation. In the Lake Atitln area,
pollution from untreated swerage recently contributed to both an outbreak of
cholera and the reported eatinction of the poc, a large flightless water bIrd
unique to the region.
2.15.  The nwly-created Secretariat for Water Resources (SIR) faces
considerable challenges In ti sector. Urban areas are characterized by
inappropriate water and seerage tariff policies and the lack of ability to
plan and implement progrms and manage dy to day operations. Water program
in rural areas ar characterized by a lack of formal coordination,
particularly vith respect to strategies, appropriato tecbnologies, tariff
policies, and by insufficient emphasis on community participation and bygine
education.



5
2.16. The road system In Guatmala to In very poor condition, re.ultig In
icasied travel time for a11, including the poor. Guatemal  to hi1ghly
dependent upon its road system which carries 95 of interna cargo an  an even
higher peresntage of pass.ng.rs (Map 5). More than three-quarters of roads
srvoing villages (tertiary roads) ar in an inadequte or deteriorated
condition. Most are, nt paved and are usually passble only in the dry
oeaon, which result. .ii considerable limitation for the rural poor who may
sometims hav to valk an entire day to roech the clo-st market or health
post. This has not encouraged farmrs to go beyond subsistence productio  and
is another cause of high infant and maternal mortality and poor heath
conditions In general.
2.17. The Rural Roads Program Unit of the Gneral load Directorate
(Dtircc6a Oensra.l de CainLaos, DOC) ha severe budgetary and Institutional
limitations. It has extremely limited financial resources, lack  cler
priorities, has insufficient equipment, and has a high turnover of personael
who, after training, leave for the more lucrative private sector. As a
result, the DOC doss not have tkh capacity to expand its curreat proSram of
construction, rehabilitation and maintenac  of roads. Thus, thero is a
considerable need to oeplor new decentralized methods of fla ncing and
implementing road projects, which the proposed 8I intends to do through
municipalities and local committees, with the help of private contractors and
300s, in coordination with the DOC.
111. TEM GOVEZRZT' S STRAU4T 10M TUE SOCIA  SCTOI
3.1.   The precarious economic and socil situation of Guatemala's poor
co muities, particularly in rural areas, reflects the filure to make
deuate public nvestment in the social sectors, to target and use public
resources effectively, and to involve the coanities, no-govermetal
organizations (NGOs) and the private ector In the attack on powvrty problems
on a sustaind bssis  The Government's soil sector developm et strategy, a
set forth In its Action Plan of Social Devlopmet (1992-1996, 1997-2000),
prepared by the National Planning Ministry (SEGQPLU), and outlined in its
Letter of Social Sector Development Policy (Annae 2), lit (a) to increas
public spending in the social sectors; (b) to s4-engthen delivery capabilities
of *oial sector line ministries through decentralization of budget decision-
making, streamlining of admnistrative procedurs, and efforts to better
tar8gt expenditures and (c) to give local comimitiee a greator role in the
country' social inestment strategy through the creation of a 5!?.
3.2.   IncreiAna -ublgc Soe Lnd  in the Social Sectors. The 1988 Public
Sector Expenditure Revie sad the 1991 Social        tur   view found that
Central Gornmt expnditure. are only about one-half of the level in
emparable countries with siilar per capita Income, and expenditures on
health and educatio are only about one-third as large a* in these countries.
The low level of public spending results in part from low resource
mobilization as the country's taz revenue lvel remaln one of the lowest in
the world. The Economic Moderization Loan (01L), which was prepared by the



6
Governmnt ada the Bask over the lat yer and whose negotiations were
recntly completed, aifs to incro goerment reVenUes and to reallocate
goenmente              toward the social sectors. Under the  ML, the
GoverAmet and the Bank have areed t  reviev and agree, upon  ocal socter
iv"tment plazs for  94 and M9, focusing on the expansion of t (1) primry
oducation in rural ar ea   (ii) prevetive and primry health care In rural
areas and (1ii) nutriti   pogram. The Government vold increa
ependiture  in thu sinitries of bhalth (HU3) and *ductiotn (MM) by 152 in
rel tern  for MS and agreement would be sought to maintain at le"t that
higher level for  94 and M5.
3.3. __ttti l fn In the   .Ministrie     Th problem of
delivering ocial services to the poor Is not just one of lnadequate
resources. The greatest hurdle which Guatemalan authorities face in trying to
mount a broader and more effective offort to d  l with poverty problms In the
aural area  is the limited capacity of ky line alnistries to design
appropriate program  and projects, and they have even grster difficulty in
carrying thes out In aen  ffective end timly fashion. The MRN and MHU hve
only * Limited capacity to serve the rural poverty rc. Basic health
s*rvices reach oly 352 of the population, and HU covers less than 602 of
school-age children In poor rural area.  In both ministries, centralization
of day-to-day routine decision-making Is a ci?itical bottleneck in personnel
docisions and budget execution evidenced by the followings (i) lower-level
officials cannot make timly and appropriate decisions without first obtaining
approval at the higher level; (_1) there Is conslderable fragmentation of
administrative units Into vertical programs and competing depart mets; and
(iII) there is rapid persomnnl tunover, especially at the central level. In
M,91, these and other bottlenecks resulted In nly 122 of the approved
livestment budget and only 762 of the total budget of the MON being e:ecuted.
3.4.   Thus, the second element In the Government' social sector strategy is
to itprove the public spending and operations of line ministries and to creat
more effective procedures linkifg the MO   ad the line ministries.
Decentralizsing MME ad 30 and lmprowvig the coordination and targeting of
basic health  nd nutrition programs will play a dentral role in the refores.
The authorties hve already begun efforts to decentralize the operations of
both the MOE and MO. Thi effort ill be supported by international donor
assistance, including that of the Bank (pare. 3.10 and 3.13). Sowever,
effective decentralization will take yers and require profound changes in the
allocation of resources, personnel policy, and budgeting, contracting, and
auditing procedures, thus the need to establish a SIF to help provide crucial
social sector servico In the interim period.
3.5. 8ocial Invcctment Fund. The third element In the Gavernment's social
sector strategy is to establish the SI, I.e., a financial Institution which
would financ  small-scal subprojects proposed by municipalities,
cooperatis,t asociatios of producers, local health committee and otbhr
community groups, both public and private. The first institution of this kind
ws" the Bolivia Emergency Social Pund (181), created in 1985 to prowide a
sa£ety'not during a structural adjustmet program. Since then, several
similr Institutions have beoe establishad with success, principally In Latin
America and Africa. In Central America, IDA has provided two credits to the
Hondura Socil Invwestmet Fund (MBIS) and hs completed negotiations for a
credit to the licaraguan Social Inwvtmet Fund (I85).



7
3.6.   The proposed 8K, described In Chapter IV belw, would finane but not
execto subprjects. The SKI woul recive the full oprt of lin
ministrie and would ma ttait close relationships with the. through specific
agremts  .5 imfng clealy how and in which areas the DF would complement
the work of lie ministres sad would asLit their proc.s  of decentralization
(pare. 4.33).
S. Lesso|n fM  Agg&e writh Soola  Lnstment Funds
3.7.   Several1 less  learn"e from suessful STI, haws been Incorporated In
the design of the GtS. Exeric With SKir  in lolvie-, zonduras,
ad Ecuador indicates that to be effective, USP  *1ould be desgnd as semi-
autonme ogrgaisatioom  to$
(1)    eltniat. or at leat sharply reduce political influece on
(11)   4low competitive salaries which pevits the selection of
exeriencd 8mners and roeuitmet of high-quality staff; and
(lit)  allow siplified procumt proedure which are a necessary
condition for efficit and rapid subproject implememtation.
S.8.   To ensure officincy, transpareny of operations, and an acceptable
alocations of funds scrosv different types of subprojects and c,uiunities,
the followig eloent. have been found to be tmportantt
(i)    a standardied manu of subpro1 cta to provide standard
parameters and specifications used by sponsoring agencies in
subproject preparation and to facilitate appraisal and
supervision of subproj cts by staffs
(11)   a comprebesive  wperanal Ksual vith clear eligibility,
appraisal, implemnotation, and supervision criteria;
(11i)  an aeplicit and monitorable tSlSgf glmn to rech poor
families;
(iv)    ctlive  roolg ion and auoort for aubnrolect oreoaration,
conenatrating on higher priority subprojects In poorer
communities; and
(v)     xtnsivo Bank suaneision. incorooratgein  annul financial
audits and ouarterlv onoratianal audits.
3.9.   Taking into  ccount the above lesons, 811 wea designed a  an
autonomous institution eemmpted from the decree of public adminiotration,
which allows it to select a woll-poid and motivated staff (paras. 4.5-4.6).
It would adopt simplified contracting prvcedures (per&. 4.5) which conform to
the Sank', procurment guidelnes to be applied under the project (paras.
5.12-5.18). EffiieAncy and tr nsparncy would be ensured through an
Operational Manual satisfactory to th Bank (pare. 4.26 & Annex 3), a
standardised maen  of subprojects (peras. 4.15-4 *17 and Annex 4), the
application of a well-designed targeting mechanism (pare. 4.14 and Annex 5),
promotion and support for subproject preparation (pares* 4.18, 4 *32, and 5.3),
and anwsal financl lad quarterly operationDl audits (pars. 5.22-5.24) to be
undertaken under the project.



8
C. Rainle fo  Auk InvolvmAt
3. 10. The Bank's aountry sstitence, strategy focuse  on a two-pronged effort
supporting the Goeenr t's progrm of ecoanoic modernixation and poverty
allevition.  Us main objoctives of the Dak', assistane are tos  (i)
strengthe  publi flueat" through reform In both reveoue and ependlture
exeution; (11) deepen the trade, financial sector, and agricultural reforms;
(iii) expend investmt. In proventive end prima  bhlth core and educationg
(lv) strengtbhn the institutional capacity of the education and bhelth
ministries and ncowrag broader public sector Yangement rforum (v) assist
poras to support s.l  farmers and address land use and other environmeatal
problems in rural aras and (vi) support key inwestment In baic
infraotructre. The Bank wivl pursu  Ito strategy through an intensified
policy dielogue assistance in the lmplemtation of already approved
projcts, adjustment and project lending, aid coordination through the
Cosultative Group of donor for Guatemala, provision of technical ssistance.
for institutlonal sta rethening, and close project supervision.
3.11. Iplementatilo of the strategy will be initiated through complementary
operstlon, the first of which is the proposed DEL, scheduled for Board
presentatin In Nowember 1992. She EEL will belp consolidat, the
macro ecoomic sctabiisztion achieved sitce 1991 and deepen the structural
reforms being undertae  i the public sector, trade, and finnce areas   The
progrm supported by the EL explicitly addresses poverty alleviation by
stre nAgeniS public flnances, supporting institutional development in the
health end education ministries, and Increasing social spending on primary
ducation and prlmry health care.
30120 The second component is the proposed 8IN, which is designed to target
the poorest rural coizunities. B Dlde providing direct assistance to the
rual poor, the SI would serve as a catalyst for Improving Central Goverument
opeation  cin the rural areas and demnstrate tho Government's commitment to a
significant intensification of its poverty alleviation program.
3.13. The proposed project would help the Government strengthen its poverty
alleviation efforts during an extended adjustment period while lIne ministries
mprove their Institutional capacities and complete their policy reform
program.  Institutional reforms in the Ue to Improve basic education
servies primarily in rural aras would be supported by the Second Education
Loan (Ln. 3003-GU), which will be activated once arrears with the Bank have
been cleared. Institutional refornm to decentralize the M0O, Improve
maitenancne, streamLne budgetary proekdures, and redirect resources to
tpropw  the coerge  and quality of basic health care  would be supported by
Bank sector wo*k, a proposed MT94 health and Nutrition project, and a proposed
TDB swlth Sector Adjustment program.
3.14. Bank support for UP is critical to help ensure thats (i) tho
GoUIrnOet's economic modernization program is carried out with social
coheion and support to the poors (i1) lesoons lrned by the Bank in similar
projects In other contrie  (e.g., In Bolivia, Hodur"a, and licaragu) are
properly tansferred to SIN; (114) sufficient funds are mobilized from the
intersational donor co umity to belp the Government continue with its social
*ector reform and safety net program;l and (iv) the SIF li established within
a cosistent and vell-focused social strategy framework defined in the



9
lecomomc moderuisation program and the Governmt Letter of Social Sector
Devlopmet  Policy (Anne 2). At ngotiatio", the Borrower submitted a
Letter of Socl Sector Development Policy, satiefactosy to the Bank (par.
7.1(a)).
IV. Te SOCIL IVUS== I=
4.1.   The Government first discused the possibility of crating a eocia
investment fund with the Bank In 1988  A STP project was prepred during late
198 and 1989 and wes negotiated in March 1990. NoIever, given the proximity
of the general elections and the ecpeeted cbhan  in admiistration, the Sly
wsa not created and the project never presented to the Board.
4.2. The new adminustration that took office In 1991 r_aoined interested in
developing a SIP project. It views the 81 as an Important tool for inducing
the participation of municipalities, local comrunity group , EGO and the
private aetor in the implementation of the Goveiraamnt9a poverty alleviation
strategy. Bowever, because of discontinuAtion of debt service to the Bank,
the project remained on hold.
4.1. Consideration was given to the possibility of merging the SIF into the
existing PONAPAZ (Fondo Naclonal Pars la Paz). However, this option wee
rejected because the target populations and the objectives of the two
isntitutions were different. Advancing peace is an lnherently political
process. Compensatory programs such as PONAPAZ ar a potentially useful tool
to advance peace, but the nature of FOUAPAZ operations may have to be shaped
as an outcome of a bargaining process. This featur of FONAPAZ conflicts with
the objective of having the SIJ function as an apolitical institution
providing assistance on the basis of need and of technical rather than
political criteria. Thus SIP will be created as an independent, autonomous
institution (parss. 4.5-4.6).
4.4.   The Bank's active participation to redesign the proposed project began
In February 1992, after the Government had Indicated its Intention to
establish the SIP and clear arrears. In addition to the Bank's involvement,
the preparation of the proposed project has been supported by a UNDD-financed
techalical assistance project. The project has bee updated to reflect changed
circumstances within the country and draw upon the additional experience of
the Bank, other donors, and countries in the dtvelopment and operation of such
funds since 1990 (paras. 3.7-3.9).
B. Institutional F
4.5.   The SIP would be created by Decree a an autonomou public
lnstitution. The draft Decree has been revlewed and is atisfactory to the
Bask (Aunne 6). The proposed Decree ti already bein discussed between the
Executive Branch and key members of Congress and the Government intends to
request its includon on the agenda of Congress within the next month. The
most salient features of the SIF Decree would bet (i) it would exempt the
operations of the 8ST from the restrictions of the Gbaeral Procurement Decree
applicable to public entities; (1) it would enable the 8IP to hire and



10
rsmOrat. It  staff adequately withot thelt being subject to the
reotrictions Of GuatemUla' Civil Service Decree (para. S*18); (i1) It would
exempt the operatios of the 8I frm the Budgetary Decre that govern  the
budgetary proces of state orgnistationst and (iv) It wold provide a mean
for beneficitares that do not already have legal status to join together in a
lega entity (the sIp lusiness) for the exclusive purposes of excuting sI
subprojects. A_ g condition of An  effc an. SZ wguld hl  been
created by Doere  or Decree  on term  agCCntabl to the Xan  (para. 7.4(-)).
4.6.   The S8 would hae a Board of five members appointed by the President
of the Republic. The Board would rview and approves (i) genoral strategy;
(_1) action plsne; (lit) rules of operation;t and (iv) tho annual budget. It
would also authorinse the SYI to help rade external and domestic funds. The
Chairmsen of the soari would also be the executive director of the 8sI and hav
the titlo of Xxocutive President. Tbe designated Executive President is a
well-respected and experienced businessman. The four other mmbers would be
well-respcted persons from the public or private sector with experience in
the sectors to be financed by SIP. Durlat ne*otiationa. agrement wa ragcebd
dhat any aggontuent to the oaoltion of ExectieMI PresAdent would be subject
to nrAor ank conaultation (para. 7.2(a)).
4.7.   To gain tie until the 8IJ Decree is passed, the GoverAment Intends to
create SIT through a Governmental Agreement (Acuerdo Oubernativo) as en
administrative unit of the Presidency, before November 15, 1992. While this
agreement has some restrictive features (notably oan procurement nd salaries),
it would allow SIU to atart recruiting its staff, complete the preparation of
operational procedurs, prepare a draft Operational Manu-l (para. 4.26),
appoint staff who would continue In the SIP following the enactment of the
ecree, promote STI and the types of subprojects to be financed by the
nsatitution, and actually start financing subprojects.
C. Objectives and Anxroaeh
4.8.   The SIP was dsigned as a financing mechanism to help the Governments
(a) create a means of responding rapidly and efficiently to socio-economic
needs as Identified by poor local communities, with special focus on
indigenou ceailties and women's groups; (b) target scarce existing
resources ore effectively to inprove tho health, nutrition, basic educatlon
and lncome-earaig potential of the poor during a period of economic reform
and (c) improve the coverage sad quality of basic health, nutrition and basic
education services In the Interim whil the line ministries are being
str ngthened to better serve the rural population.
4.9.   Comunit. .c.JW  on.  There is lncresing acceptance of the view
by gover     ent and donors that succssful basic health and nutrition
intervntions, *as wl as primary and pre-primary education, in rural poverty
areas require the active, sustained tiwolvement of local groups sUh as
village coamittees or women's groups. This involvement is more likely to take
place If invetmets are proposed by local groups than if imposed from above.
4.10.  Proidin  a mechaism for cmtis to become involved in Investment
d¢cision  is espeilly attractive in  uatmala because community
organizations already exist at the graseroots level in most of the country's
330 micipalitiAe  and thousands of sm-ll rural settlements. Historically,



11
Guatemala has had a relatively v.ll-developed system of muicipal autonm   and
f4ane. While the municipal system and, indeed, the entire social fabric we
gravely wekend as a result of the violent civic conflict of the last
decades, the Institutions of wmuicipal government are being reconstructed and,
at the village level, a proliferation of special purpose local committees has
re-e  rged. Tbese comittees, which hav  a formal structure (i.e., *lected
offle rs and the legal right to manage funds) but are usually temporary, arlse
In response to specific needs-such a the desire for a new sehool, a better
access road, an iuproved water system. Together, they constitute a vast,
Informal, decentral_zed, rural sorvice delivery system and build on a long
tradition of comunity-based action groups.  The local groups, often with the
help of local promoters and technicians employed by public institutions or
EGO., Identify end prepare projects, try to secure outside financing and
services and carry out the projects. Most Government and virtually all NGO
programs that work with the rural poor in Guatemala employ this organizational
mode1.
4.11* Involvem_nt of Local Government. In addition to working with
coammuity groups, the SIP would provide complementary funds and technical
assistance to enable municipalities to carry out social projects. As part of
the 1985 constitutional reform, municipalities receive 8S of total government
revenue. With Increases In goveroment revenue expected under the economic
modernization program, the actual amount of revenues received by the
municipalities is expected to grow. To date, the municipalities have under-
invested in social projects, mainly for two reasons: (i) the use of said
revenues is 14ited by law to physical lnfrastructure, whereas many social
projacts require an additional training or "software" component to be
effectives and (ii) municipalities stiU lack experience in designing and
implementing socils projects. Under the project, SIP funds and counterpart
mnicipal funds from the SS transfer would be combined in a complementary way
to finance social projects. Municipalities would have an incentive to work
with the SIP because they could leverage their funds to generate a larger and
more effective social project than if they used their funds alone. Just as
tmportantly, the technical assistance provided by the SIF would help produce
effective social projects.
4.12. Involvement of NGOs. The SIF would provide an effective means of
channeling International donor support to NGOs to deliver services to poor
coommunities. With the advent of a democratic government in 1986, NGOs have
become more numerous and active than ever. They have shonn strong interest,
both individually and particularly through ASINDES, an association of major
NGOs, to participate actively in the sIr. At present, there are over 200 such
organizations operating in Guatemlal, of which 54 provide financing In excess
of US$50,000 annually. It is eatimated that in 1989 these 54 NGOs spent a
total of about US$30 million on health, education, infrastructure,
agriculture, and miero-enterpriee project.. Given their proven ability to
work closely with municipal and villag, development committees, cooperatives,
and other forms of associative organizations, NGOa constitute another
effective demand-driven funding chain. Moreover, they often work closely with
one another and with government technical agencies on a complementary basis.
At the same tine, various goverment deprtm nt  ad agencies have started a
number of credit progrms, some of them using EGOs as technical agents, others
working through cooperatives or other community associations or groups asied
at assisting micro-enterprises and small farmors in rural and urban poverty



12
areas* These programs are of varying quality, but some have established close
contacts at the grassroots level and are effective In providing appropriate
technical nd fin ncial assistance. Annex 7 provides some examples of what
vould be the SIP'. demand-driven mechanism.
4.13. Bseod on their experience, NGOs are also expected to be the main
contractors for a significant number of social assistance and social
infrastructure projects (e.g., water). SIP financing would provide an
opportunity for EGCO to leverage their own funds to accomplish more. In
rot'nn, VGO* would bhve to satisfy the SIP criteria for NGO and subproject
eliogbility and for appraisal or review of their subprojects as appropriate.
The 8TY would evaluate NGOs on the basis of their objectives and policies,
operating experience and track record, qualifications of management and
employees, accounting end auditing systems, and administrative costs as a
percentage of operating costs and would maintain a registry of approved NGOs.
Evaluation forms have been prepared and are part of the Operational Mbnual.
Once approved for participation, the NGOs would agree to be supervised and
audited. If necessary, the SIP would provide technical assistance to NGOs to
help them comply with the operating procedures established for the SIP.
Because the 8IJ would also check whether the NGO's proposed investments are
consistent with Ome Government's social strategy, the 8IP would contribute not
only to inproving the quality of NGO operation, but also to the coordination
of social sector investuient strategies between the public and private sector.
4.14. Tarietitna. To reach disadvantaged populations who have been bypassed
by previous development efforts, the SIF would employ two mechanisms to target
its funds, which would be part of the Operational Manual (para. 4.26). The
first is £eo25 S&Is trgetUnI   (Annex 5). Under this system, 90S of the
subproject funds would be allocated to each of the 329 municipalities
according to population and a poverty index composed of six indicators: (i)
crowdings (ii) housing condition; (iii) basic sanitation; (iv) availability of
potable water; (v) access to basic education; and (vi) basic needs. Using the
values of the poverty index, municipalities would be grouped into five
categories ranging from severe to low poverty. These groupings would be used
to determine a subproject's counterpart funding requirement (para. 4.38).
More extensive promotional activity would be undertaken in the poorest
mnmicipalities (para. 4.24). The assignment of funds would be carried out in
two steps. Pirst, funds would be allocated to departments according to their
population and value of their poverty index. The exact proportion allocated
to a particular department is determined by multiplying the department's
population by its poverty index and dividing the result by the weighted sum of
all the department's populations, weighted by the respective department's
poverty index. A sluilar formula would be used to allocate funds to
municipalities within a department. This formula has been reviewed and is
acceptable to the Bank. Punds would be allocated to cover all municipalities
of the country except Guatemala City, which already offers a wide roags of
services of relatively easy access to the poor compared to other regions and
where many other social projects are already being implement.d with the
support of EGOs and International donors. About ten percent of the subproject
funds would be allocated to large subprojects costing more than US$100,000,
such as water and sanitation subprojects and for "regional" subprojects that
may cut across different municipalities. These larger subprojects would be
subject to the Bank's prior review (part. 4.27). The second mechanism is the
design of a mon of subturoiects (paras. 4.15-4.17), which gives a higher



13
priority to the type of subprojects that are likely to be dmanded by poorer
communities ad which me expected to have a high socil impct. The proposed
targeting mehaxim ha been recivod as part of the Operational Manual and
found etisfactory to the Saak. At negotiatios, it wu   gred that the
Operational MaWuAl, including the targeting machanism, would not be changed
without prio Ia=k approval (para. 4.26).
4.15. SI J   ubR is"9A.  The SIF would finace subprojeeta proposd by local
groups to accordnc with eligibility oriteuia and evaluatio  parameters
*stablihed ip an Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank (par&. 4.26 and
Annx 3). Responding to proposals for sowd 0wotmeant subproj cts rather
tbha assigning  nestments to different comtunities io the easen  of a
dmand-driven approach (Annex 7). In following ths approach, the SIP would
specify the typ  of subprojets that It would be willng to finance and its
targeted lavetmet plan, using a smnu of subproj ets. It would define the
reuiemn"aats that must be met by those submitting proposals and the technical
criteria on which the proposals would be appralad (para. 4.26). The SIF
would promote, appraise, and supervise subprojects, but would not execute
thm. Subprojects would be requested by comunity groups, municipalitles, and
DOb and would be executed by private contractors or N30 (par.. 4.28) and
would be upervised by 81 or a third party with the necesary technical
qualifications (para. 4.30).
4.16.  Inwetmnts would be financed in the following areas, according to a
standardised menu of subprojects, doscribed in Annx 4 and summarized belows
(a)    S.1   AUndetanc-   Uder this category, the SIP would finance
subprojcts in community health, food and nutrition, and basic
educatio. The range of subprojects wvould liclude training of
rural paramedicl personnel and midwives, technical assistance
to local health committees, :mmunisation campaigns, nutrition
education, financing of teachers' alris on a declining
basis, nd the provision of school furniture, basic textbooks,
and libraries.  Social assistance subproj cts would represent
about 20S of SIP subprojetst
(b)    Sogal  Infg        xj.turc   Under this category, the STI would
finanec urgently needed socill infrastructure aubprojects such
as the repair and construction of schools, health centers,
latrines, water and drainae system. Social infrastructure
would represent about 492 of SIP subprojects#
(a)    Scon4miL .ZfraStru¢tur. Under thl category, the SIF would
finance economic Infrastructure subprojacts such as small
irrigation systems, wells, and food warhouses. This category
would also inlude the repair and construction of access roads
nd small bridges. It is anticipated that ecoaomic
infrastructure subprojets would rprosent about 212 of SIP
subproj etst and
(d)   ftq&"tn 8 ctor IrveataJa. The SI  ould make funds
available to NGOs, associations of producers, and cooperatives
to provid loaos at sarket rate  ad prowide technical
assistance to small enterprises In the aras of agriculture,
fisheries  and artisan production. This ctegory, which is
xtpected to attract funds easily from other donors, would not



14
be finnced by the Bank,, which would cocentrate its finacing
on subprojects with a sore direct social impact. DuAgr
ne.toatlone. a.Xc_nt y& reached that groductlve seectr
subpralete would not re     oneet mo"r than JOS of 311 flAagcg
(par&. 7.2(b)).
4*17. The definition of the SII' menu of subprojects was done with the
participation of the lIne mitistries and ,r*tional and international
organizations with sectoral epertise. For example, the NDP/I1BRD Regional
Program on Water Supply and Sanitation he. been working with would-be STI
staff In designing prototypical water subprojects, while the United Nations
International Children'. mergency Fund (UNICEF) and the Nutrition Institute
for Central Ameri¢a and Panama (INCAP) have been involved in the design of
nutrition subprojects. The proposed allocation of funds takes into
considerations (i) user prioritiest (ii) Government priorities; (iii) the
need to give higher priority to programs with a high social return; and (iv)
otber donor.' interests  These target percentages would be examined at the
annual rviews in light of the experience under the project and adjusted as
may be necessary (paras. 5.29-5.31).
4 186  Strenathenidr  of ImTlementina Aaencie * In addition to the financing
of subprojects, the SIP would finance training and the provision of basic
equipment for organizations that are either sponsoring agencies,
beneficiaries, or executors of SIP subprojects. This vwuld include training
in accounting, monitoring, and supervision, as well as dissemination of best
practices In technical approaches to social projects   It ou ' also include
asistance in preparing SIP subproject proposals. It is antiuipated that
institutional strengthening would account for about St of the total investment
costs of SIF In subprojects.
4.19. Total cost of SIP Administration would represent 10.5S of the total
SIP budget (subprojects plus administration) of US$76.0 million. This would
iclude operating costs and technical assistance to SIP, which taken together
would represent 8.72 of the total SIF budget. This percentage is considered
acceptable based on the average size, type, and distribution of subprojects
expected to be processed and the expected technical assistance ed supervision
efforts aud the newness of the SIP. Other costs of SIP administration are
vehiles and computers (0.86 of total SIP budget) and monitoring and
evaluation (0.6 of total SIP budget). Contingencies for equipment and
technical assistance would account for 0.31 of total SIP budget. The slightly
higher administrative costs in comparison to other SIP. is justified because
the 8I would be a new institution. In addition, because of the country's
mountainous topography, the costs of communication and transport would be
higher.
D. Qr&Aaizatlon and Staff ine
4.20. The SIP would have a five-member Board of Directors, headed by an
Executle President (pare. 4.6). A General Mana ar would serve as second-in-
command to the Executive Preosident and be responsible for ensuring that 81I
operations are iplemented in accordance with the decisions of the Managing
Committe and the provisions of the Operational Manual. The qualifications
and experience of the person nominsted to the position of Executive President
were revived and are acceptable to the Bank. The wmta    Committee vould be



15
responsible for approving eubprojects. This cumittes vould be headed by the
Executive PNest t and consits of the Geeral Manager, the head of the
Strategic PlAnix Departmt, the hads of the Operations Departmet and Its
three divisios, the logal advisor, and the inten al auditor; others may bo
designated by the Bxscutive President dependitg on the nature of eubproj cts.
8it's proposed management is satisfactory to the Bank.
4 21. The STY would be organized into two line departments. The first, the
Stratogic Planning department, would conslt of four divisions: (t) financial
cooperationg (tl) human resourcest (i11) Information systems; a*nd (iv)
planning. The second department, the Operations department, vould consist of
thre divisionJs (1) promotion; (ii) evaluation; ad (iii) supervision. In
addition, the STI would be supported by four division that would help in
carrying out its operational responsibilitiess (i) administration and
finance; (ii) public relations; (11i) legal; and (iv) Internal auditing. This
is a sound administrative structure which is compurable to that of other
successful SI n i Latin America. Annex 8 provides additional details about
8IP's organization. All department heads and division chiefs have beon
already recruited with support from UNDP and have helped prepare the proposed
project. At start-up, tie SI? would have a staff of about 60. This number
would be increased to about 80 by December 31, 1993 and to about 100 by June
30, 1994. About half of the staff would be promoters and supervisors working
In the field based in thrse regional areas   This organization and staffing
plan is considered to be sufficient to handle the number of subprojects
expected under the project.
-m 1em1mntaton CaMacitv
4.22. Giveu the great extent of poverty in Guatemala and the state of social
service dellvery, there is a large potential demand for subprojects that could
be financed by tha SIP. Besd on the experience of other SIPs, the limiting
factors affecting how auch can be effectively distributed are the ability of
communities to prepre fundable eubprojects, the financing available, and the
admuinstrative capacity of the SIP. Especially in its early stages, it is
important that the SIP have sufficient staff and resources to vork effectively
without creating a large bureucracy.
4.23   A program of US$68 million in subprojects over three and a half year
as proposed under the project (para". S 4-5.5) would require commitents
averaging about US$1 .6 million a month. This is roughly 602 of the monthly
com-itments of VISE, the Nicaraguan So¢ial Investment Fund (which began
operations In February 1991). This is considered reasonable given the
particular complexity of operations itposed by transportation, language, and
customs in Guatemala compared to other Central American countries  At an
expected average subproject cost of about US$30,000, this would imply an
approval of 60 subprojects a month, In line with the staffing plan (paras.
4.20-4.21). During peak periods, the SIF would contract with consultants for
promotion, appraisal, or supervision to ensure a rapid response to requests
for subproj cts.



16
1. The Praleet >o.
4.24.   _ Moto.- Id_ ntifi_ati_n. and  8xenM=1on. 8II protlotn  ould be
carried out throu&h   (1) activoly publicisitg Its nu of "bprject. and
ellgiblity criteri with nunicipalitles,, lne ministries, Me, and tho
medla; (i1) dlrect coatac twith boeficiaries and sponsorng agencies by S11
promoter. throa&  field vislt1s and (111) organized r _poe to quertis
received by tbe Sit' promotioA division. Promotional mteriale would include
description of subprojecte senu and eligibility criterla, capl. guideline
for the preparation of ubproject proposals, sad application forms tailored to
*ech type of subprojeat. SI? promoters would help comuities  identify and
prepare subprojecte that could be financed by the STI. The promotion ould be
done in the local lpnguao  by promoter recrulted with the cultural background
nocossary to ifttract with the coawunitie. Priority for field vi lts by $IF
promoters would be "signed to eligible municipalities that have not submitted
subproject proposale, particularly the 62 pooret municipalities. In selected
case in poor  unicipaliti., TSP would prowide pre-lovetment funds for
contracting servies from the private sector for subproj-et preparation.
4.25. During subproj et Identification and preparation, SIP promoters
woulds (1) revie the technical specification of the subproject; (ii)
ascertain technical assistance needs for inplemntations (III) verify
availability of counterpart financing; (iv) seek opportunities for packaging
several subprojects across comunities, to nprove Implementation effictiecy;
(v) assess the Institutional capacity of potential executors, particularly
EGos; and (vi) confirm that subprojects ar not already part of lnveatment
planning of other governont agencles. Attention would aleo be paid to
identifying, ine *ea co m_ity, packages of interventions combining
subprojects that complemnt each other. At the completion of this process,
the promoter would make the first judgment oan likely subproject ellgibility
and would pass it on to the evaluation staff for appraisal.
4.26. Agrp.l l. All subproject requests would be forwarded to the
appraisal division for evaluation by an appropriate specialist. The first
criteria applying to all subprojecta would noure that they fall within the
funding allocation limits baad on the targeting plan. After this screening,
subprojects would be appralsod baed oan technical, financial, social,
institutional, and environmntal criteria appropriate to each of the four
categories of subprojects. Appraisal criteria would be cierly specified in
tbe SIT'Y Opertioal Manual. The Bank ha reviewed the latest draft of SIP's
Operational Manual and found it satlfactory. Durl= ne*otlation.. ar_emnt
wag reached that -t cbasc to tha  Onsrational Manual of thce SI wauld rgSMr
thc  anl'a gzior aDrWMa (para. 7.2(c)). A. a conditgon of loan
effectivsncaa.  fi5laSnd Ob rtIonaIl Mainial. aatiafactorv to the  gnk would
have bI=  adoted  b    ' (par&. 7.4(b)). To evaluate whether subprojects
costa are reallstically stimated, 8IP's appraisal division would maintain a
cost center with up-to-date regionaltsed unit prices for the inputs of
subprojects iclude  In the S1 menu (para. 5.14). Subproject appraisal would
take place both at  aadquarter and in the field. SIP appraisal staff in the
field owuld recive tsechical upport from headquarters, through a
compterised tnformation system covering unit costs, list of qualifi t    SGO.
and other project-related informtion. Por ggij  assgtatne, subprojects,
appraisal criteria would focus on cost per caplta, degre of cmunity
participation,, mpleenation capacity of the executing agency,



17
eu.talnability, and expected impact. For social and economic infrastructure
subprojacts, appraisal criteria would caver technical feasibility, cost per
capita, cost-sharing, technical assistance requlrements, and the
organizational readines of sponsoring agencies to ensure subprojact
sustainabllity. For uroductive seator subprojects, G00. would conduct the
appraisal whle 8IN's role would be to evaluate the NGO.' implmentation
cpacitys, ensuring that: (i) WGOs adopt and implement satisfactory criteria
for selection of ftnal beneficiaries, apply market-oriented rates for final
beneficiaries, and incluce technical assistance costst and (1i) recovery rates
re adequate to prserve the starting equity base of the revolving funds
mwraned by the W0O.
4.27. Aoerv. The Managing Committee (para. 4.20) would be the ultimate
nstance for subproject approval, except for large subprojects and the first
two subprojects in each category where the Bank's approval would be required.
DurAn  neotiat on.. agraement was reached that subDrofecta coetit MMore than
USSQ00.OOO and the first subgr_ofct In each Bank-financed sub-grogrSM fannex
41 would reouir. the Bank'o vrioz approval (para. 7.2(d).
4.28.   ImvleWentatio  and Supervision.  Subproject implementation would be
carried out by executors who may be local private contractors or NGOs,
approved by SIP according to procurement methods satisfactory to the Bank
(par.s. 5.12-5.18). Upon subproject approval, contractual agreements would be
entered Into, involving a three- or four-party contract, satisfactory to SIP,
betweens ($) SIP (as the funding and supervisory agency); (ii) the sponsoring
agency; (111) th executor (or NO)I and, if the responsibility is not assumed
by the sponsoring agency, (iv) the local entity responsible for providing
counterpart financing In cash or in-kind and for maintaining subprojects. A
subproject account would be established by SIF upon completion of these
contractual agreements.
4.29.   Under its contracting system, SIP would disburse a portion of the
cost of each subproject directly to the executor (or NGO) as an advance upon
signing of the contract. This contract advance would not exceed 301 of the
value of the subproject, and would be made by SIP upon receipt of contract
lAplementation guarantees, the terms and conditions of which vould be
speclfied in the Operational Manual. Thereafter, SIP would make partial
payments based on covering the percentage of work completed, the latter having
to be certified by a SIP supervisor. For productive sector subprojects, SIP
would make funds available to N10 for on-lending to final beneficiaries,
under terms and conditions specified ir. the Operational Manual.
4.30. Subproject supervision woul' be carried out directly by SIP staff or
sub-contracted by $IP to private sector consultants and international
agencies. Public sector agencies may be asked to carry out supervision.
Supervision noms and standardized forms would be specified In the Operational
Manual by type of subproject and would include periodical field inspections to
ensure that appropriate technical standards are being met, work is progressing
according to schedule, and contract payments are being used for the purposes
for which they are intended. The SIP would seek the collaboration of local-
beneficiaries in the supervision process by requesting their views on the
quality of works and the implementation schedule and on the status of
operations following the completion of each subproject. Annex 9 Identifies



18
the activittie of various participants in SIP operations at the local,
national, and lnternational levels.
G. Technical Assistane
4.31. Technical assistance would be provided under the proposed project tot
(1) *trongthen 8IP institutional capacity; and (ii) s*l.t sponoring and
executing agenaces to prepare and execute subprojects. SI would receive
t ehnical  assistane from USD1 coverlg the following aro"s  (i) socil
investmnt fund manacementl (U1) design, evaluation and supervision of
subprojecte; (1ii) appropriate technology applicable to subprojects; and (iv)
Institutional atrength ning and logistical support. SIP'. requirements for
technical assistance have been estirated at US$1.4 million. Pinancing would
be provided through a technical assistance contractt satisfactory to the Bank,
betwoen SIP sad USDP including US$0.7 million from DUDP and US$0.7 million in
Oov rnnent counterpart funds (Annex 10). UMDP would finance part of the
professional staff of 8IP, consultant services, and travel expenseo. The
Government would finance part of the staff and other operating expense.
Experlence with technical assitance under the project would be reviewed at
annual project implementation reviews and adjustments agreed if necessary.
Dnrlnu nsao"eationa. the Borrower submitte-d evidence af a draft- escent
bgten SI and MMD? for tegheal abelstance totaglni USSO. 7 MWIln.
satisfactory to tho Bank (para. 7.1(a)). As a condltion of lo
eff.etMen.a. an a&[gement for tochnical assistance between MP a    suX
totalia  ISS0.7 =flion. satlfactory to tho Bank. would have been si..ed
(pars. 7.4(c)).
4.32. Technical assistance would also be provided under the proposed project
to sponsoring and executing agencies (para. 5.3), particularly In poorer
coimunities, to strengthen these agencies' capacity to prepare and execute
subprojects. SIP vould protvide technical assistance to these agencies, at a
total cost estimated at US$4.0 million, by contracting institutions such as
UNIcEF and INCA? or Individuals with the required technical expertise to
"aslit in proposal preparation and subproject execution as needed.
R. Coordination with Line Ministries
4.33. SIP would coordinate its operations closely with live nialstries and
agencles to ensure tbat: (i) SIP-financed subprojects are consistent with
line inistries' overall sector investment plansl (iL) the ministries'
technical norms and standards for service delivery are followed; and (iII)
incremental recurrent costs would be incorporated into the budgets of the
appropriate line ministries when they are not directly finmced by the local
communities . Consultations with line ministries, held during project
preparation, have ensured that specifieations of the menu of subprojects to be
finced by the SIP would comply with the technical norms and standards of
each ministry. Appraisal critorial, incorporated in the 8I Operational
Manual, would ensure that subprojects do not duplicate or conflict with
inestmnts planned by line ministries and agencies. Regarding provisions for
budSetary allocations to cover incremental recurrent costs generated by SIP-
financed subprojects, the following mchanisms, would be used: (1) a budget
planning meeting wuld b  held yearly betwen the SIP, MOF, and line
Mnltries, wherein an overall celling for liremental recurrent costs
generated by 8I subprojects would be agreed upon for the next year, with



19
"5ur n4sa that transfors to the appropriate ministry vould be aud  by the mg
based on actual S? subproject completion datat and (11) 8IP would condition
the approval of  ach subproject upon receipt of clearance, on a non-objection
basls, from the WOV and the appropriate lin  manistrie  to onsur  financing
for the project as needed. Theso mechanisms, including maxim:m timing for
decision-asking, would be clerly specified in an inter-institutional
*greement, ensuring that both the NOP and the line minittrie would monitor
Incremental recurrent costs during the year and be prepared to fulfill
budgetary requirent of SIP-flnanced subproj cts upon their completion. If
a subproject does not bave any incremental recurrent coat Implications for
line ministri.., the 8I would only notify the line ministries of its decision
to finance tLo subproject, snd no clearnce would be nocessary. 4g.g
COnditio  of lo1  efetivenees. slnd Co         Jtlo  aementa between SIP.
lne minitresV and thg hOP. s&tQfA£ctorv to   e Bank. would be rcoived
(par&. 7.4(d)).
I. Eana ement Information System
4.34. SIP's managemnt information system (HIS) would consist ofs (i) a
subproject database that would allow SIP's management to track subproject
proposals and analyze the evolution of its portfolio in relation to its
targeting and sectoral allocation goals; (it) a regionalised unit cost system
to lmprove evaluation of subproject costs; (iii) a supervision control system
to keep track of subproject budgets, physical progress, disbursements and
payment orders; (iv) a budget monitoring and control system; and (v) a
geographic information system (GI8) that would permit the 8IY to make queries
of their database and visualize the geographic covetage of their investeats.
The HIS would produce regular reports and performence indicators, allowing
managment to: (1) take corrective actions when necessary; (1i) improve
plnning; and (ili) better Inform sponsors and financiers on the progress of
subprojects.  AM   condltign gt  loan effectivenss. ag iAitial Magaset
IMation System (IS). 8 at8f9cto   to the Bank. would have been
nlogenaW (par&. 7.4(e)). Technical assistance would be provided under the
proposed project to strengthen the HIS and develop the GI8 by December 31,
1993 (Anne" 11).
J. Sustainabilitv
4.35.  SIP wuld ensure the sustainability of the subprojects it finances by
requiring that incremental recurrent costs generated by the subprojects bo
eovered over the useful life of the subproject, either by the appropriate line
ministry or by local beneficiaries. For subprojects Involving schools or
health posts, for which line ministries are directly responsible, incremental
recurrent costs would be assumed by the relevant line ministry (para. 4.33).
Por some tpes of subproject, such as improvement of a market area
incremental recurrent costs would be taken over by direct beneficiaries.
Prior to subprojact approval, a sustainability plan incorporating either
option would have to be presented and approved by SIP. The subprojects to be
operatec' and maintained by the comminity include rural water and sanitation
systems, access roads, and stand-alone soclUa and economic Infrastructure. In
these  c"es, local comittes, which exist In most Guatemalan villages, would
set up and administer user fees to cover coats of operatien, m tce,
occaional repairs, and modest service expansion over time (Annex 7). For
productive sector subprojects, sustainability would largely depend on the



20
kills of the flnal b.afioiarters who operate the productive micro-
enterprisoo. In all cases, failuro to provide adequately for the operation
and maintenance of subprojects would affect negatively the sponsoring agency's
ability to receive flancling from the SIP for new subprojects. This would be
expressed In SYI guides prepared for sponsoring and implementing agencies and
reflected in the Operational Manual.
4 36.  GeuM9g tn&U iauu. All subprojects vwuld require counterpart
financing from the sposoring agency and the beneficiaries. Counterpart
financing can be In the for. of money, labor, or in-kind. In no case would
the price of the laud where a physical infrastructure subproject to to be
located be accepted a  counterpart financing.  on-monetary contributions
would be valued using re 'onalised unit prices computed under the project
(para. 5.14).
4.37. Counterpart contributio to SIF projects is essential because It
woulds (i) indicate the willingness of communities to pay for health,
nutrition, and education services as well as social infrastructure, thu
informing the SIP about the effective demand for such services5 (ii) mobilize
additional resource.; (1.1) Improve the sustainability of subprojectas (iv)
prevent the creation of nonviable agencies to take advantage of the SIP; and
(v) give sponsoring agencies more of a stake in the project.
4.38   The required minimum counterpart financing would depend on the type of
proposed subproject and the country's poverty classification (Annex 5). The
varying minimum reqguirmts reflect SI?'s priorities for subprojects. The
figures In Table 1 below repr esnt minimum contributions. Counterpart
financing in excess of these minimums vwold be viewed positively In subproject
appraisal. These proportions would be adjusted, if necessary, following the
annmal reviews (para. 5.29).
TabletI COUNTERPART FUNDING REQUIRMIENTS
Poverty Cate-gorv
I=  of Suboroloct                   A      B      C       D      3
Social Assistance
Cosuuity Health                    5      5       5      5      5
Food and nutrition                 5      5       5     10     10
Education                          5      5       5     10     10
social Infratructure                10     10      10     15     15
Iconomic Infrastructure             10     10      10     15     15
Productive Sector                   10     15      15     20     20
V. TE PROJECT
A. Descriptlon
5.1.   The project, with a total cost of US$80.0 million, would have three
components.  The first cgMgo_t. 011 Subgroiects, would finance, through STY,
a range of small-scale subprojects (US$68.0 million, equivalent to 85.01 of
total project cost) sponsored by local comunities, municipalities, and IGOs
in four broad categories: (1) social assistance (17.02); (ii) social
infrastructure (41.62); (.i) economic infrastructure (17.92) and (iv)
productive sector (8.51).



21
5.2.   The segnd aomment. BP Administati    (8$.0 millon, equivalent
to 10.Q2 of total project cost) woud consist of the finaucing of$ (1) 81a
operating costs (6.52)3 (1i) equipment Including veiles, cmputeres and
office funishings (0.752); (III) technical assistance to 811 to help improve
promotion, OApraM1a, amd supervio  of eubpojcts and Ms (1.52)  (tv)
monitoring and evaluatio of offectlveness and tmpat of operation  (0.75Z);
and contigencies for eqipmet and technical assltae (0.25Z). Tbe
proposed Bank loan woul finance about 152 of the 8S   c       tl recurrent
ependiture for aelarie., saintenanc,  and other operating costs on *
declinint basis as indicAted in the scbedule of with   w   of the procoeds of
the loan (par. 5.19-5.20 and Annex 14). The partial finacin of Su
salaries is justified bys (a) the fact that III'. ma  purpose is to manage
the channeling of external resources to     tt,   d its administrative
coats are therefore lncwemetal and to * larg extent, a function of the
external resources available; and (b) the need to attreat and retain hily
qualified admini trative and technical personnel.
503.  The tLrd cauont. ftea              of Snynsrie r  d MAecutin
4ggpc.gt (US$4.0 million, equivalent to 5.02 of total project cost) would
help strengthen the Institutional capacity of  gplemti      ei.  It would
provide, throu  811, technical "sistance        p    t  (uch   calculator.
and typewriters to belp improv  accountig ad        at practice) to ROOo,
women's aoup., Indigenous commulty cinittees, wmuicipalities, or other
commuity groups to help Improve preparation of subprojeat  (pare      18 and
4.32).
B. Avsa.labiLUt of Loa= Proceeds and ImlmnaIon Aiaet
5.4. The proceeds of the loan (1US$20.0 mllon equivalent) would be lent to
the Republic of Guatemala, which would pas thm as a grmt to SIP. 811, in
tur, would use the loan, in conjunctio  with funds from othor iaternational
donor. and the National Treaury, to finance subprojecte under the foin of
grants In local comunitie. end implemente by private contractors, MOOe, and
public agencies under the tbchnical eupervision of appropriate ageocles. AMA
conditIon of loan s11*ctiveneWa  a Subsidiary AaetL  aAknr doe LAmd
"Avalblet AZ te Borrower to ay,' seatifactoryg do h  Bank. unsad hav  kme
enteedlka (pare. 7.4(f))
5.5.  The prjojct vould be ipentdover a peidof about three and a
half yrear. S11's staffing criteria. and prcdrsfor the identification,
preparation, appraisals and iImplmetation of subprojoets vere reviewed by the
Sank and are satisfactory. 811 activities woul be governed by the provisions
of its Operational Manual. SIF's management, already recruited, Is
satisfactory to the bank.
C.-Coats and Pinancin Plan
5.6.  The total project cost, net of taxes and tariff., expressed in June
1992 prices, is estimated at US$80.0 million, equivalent. lPoreiga exchange
coats (US$20.8 mitlln) represent 26.01 of the total pr"ojct cost. A
breakdown of project coats La shown In Annex 11 end is eomarised In Table 2
below. PrCurementa  categories are shown In Annex 13 and the disbursement
schedule is shown In Annex 14.



22
S.7.   Since the projoct is esentially a financial Intermdiary type
operation, pbysical tarets depend on the number and ails of subprojects to be
presented nd no contingencis hav been prowided for the SIP Subprojects
componnt. Any lacreae In the average subprojoet amount would be reflected
in a reduced number of subprojects executed. Contingencies of US$0.2 million
have been proavidd for the SIT Administration component for equipment and
technical asistance. The  stimated costs of the 8IP component are based on
¢osts of similar subprojects financed by SIN. in other Central Amorican
countries, adjusted  a 1992 for price levels i Guatemala. The costs of
tecbnicl a sistance to finance consultants and studies are based on the
avwrag cost of simlalr technical asistance provided by UK agencies in
Gatemala In 1992.
5.8.   The cost  stimtes of SIP subprojects reflect a consensus of sector
specialists (health and education, socal services, and vater and sewerage).
A significant number of subprojects in all these sectors have been on the
shelves of ministries for a number of years because of a lack of executing
capacity and complicated bureaucratic procedures. Total estimated demand far
exceeds SIP capacity and the verage project size was estimated on the basis
of 8IP projected subproject processing capacity and that of private
contractors, EGCs, camunity groups, and municipalities to execute
subprojects.
Table 2i PROJECT COSTS
Lal    Por           Total
SIP Subroiects Comnonent
Social Assistance                           10.9        2.7        13.6
Soeil Infrastructure                       24.4        8.9        33.3
Econesic Infrastructure                      9.8        4.5        14 3
Productive Sector                            5.9        0.9         6.8
6wubtotl,                wil .0     17.0        ~~~~~68.0
81D Admttaim amon
sIP Operating Costs                          5.0        0.2         5.2
quipment                                     0.4        0.2         0.6
Technical Assistance to SIN                  0.4         1.0        1.4
Monitoring and Evaluation                    0.3         0.3        0.6
Contingencies for TA and Equipment           0.1        0.1         0.2
Subtotal                                  6.2         1 8        8L0
Str=nathenin of Snonsor4nn and
butim Agencies                               2 0        2.0         4.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST



23
5.9.   The proposed financing plan (Annx 12) to 4Uwur1xe4 belorw
Tabl 3ti FINAIII  n
Local      Toa«         otal
-18$ mllliont-
Government                                 11.3          0.0       11.3
Beneficiaries                               8.0          0.0        8.0
Sponsorins Agnce
(1GO0,             ancphtio d  othr.)     4.0         0.0         4.0
IVRD                                       11.2         8.8        20.0
am11                                        4.7         5.3        10.0
Germany (If)                               12.0          6.0       18.0
UND?                            ~~~~~~~~~0.0  0.7        0.7
Other Donors                                8.0         0.0         8.02
Total PS .ucin    2 g     0            A 0.0
1V IDB and 0PW fund have expressed preliinary interest
5.10   The proposed Baak loan of US$20-0 mllion equivalent would represent
251 of total project cost. It would finance a mall proportion (les than
202) of the project's local cost, which is justified by the strong social
objectives of the project. Local beneficiaries would contribute US$8.0
million. The Borrower contribution would bo US$11.3 millixn and would partly
finance 8I subprojects and SIN'S operating costs over about three and a half
years. The proposed Decree creatitg 81 (par&. 4.5 and Annex 6) contains a
specific cloune (Article 7(a)) for the provision of US$7.7 million for the
operation of the 8I. Durin  ne*otalclons. aMe e    VMS reached on the
amount oif fund. to be conrtrbuted by the Borowr o S? and on the achedule
of dAsbarsmnga of funds throhou te  oect iulemttion gergod ad  te
kRif th*r2of (par&. 7.2(s)).
5'11. Co-FiunsciM. The Central American Bank for Iconomic Integration
(Bsnco C.ntroauricano de Znto eacion Economaico  SCIl) ha  Indicated that it
would contribute US$10.0 million. Other financing would come from Germany
through the Garman Credit Institute for Reconstruction (rsedltenstslt fdr
Vsdsraufbau, RfW) with US$18 million and MNDP with US$0.7 million. At
negotiations, the Borrower submittod evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that
financing totaling US$28.7 million equivalent would be available to SIF from
BClZ, Ifl, and UNDP (pars. 7.1(b)). lhen added to the contributions of the
Bonk, the Government, beneficiaries, and sponsors, this would represent 902 of
the total financing plan. It would cover about 40 months of operations of
81I, which is more than adequate time for SI? to raise the remaining US$8
million. As a condltion of loan efetlveness, a Aund"a& agrement of DSSO.7
xiLgon btwecn the Norrows.  d DND?P rovidfin technical assistance to 8IP'
satisfacory to ths Bank. wuld have bsen aSnd (pars. 7.4(g)). ii_
conditIon of loan  ffectiveneJ. draft contractul a*reMnts areed between
the Bor              f . and  I?F to mIkC  WZB ag KM loom available to SW.
satifagctory to the Bank. would hA    b"n orceived (pa&r. 7.4(h)). Also,    a
condition of loon effectivenosa. fundina amem_nta. satIfacporY to the RAnk.
totAlin  DSS28.0 mill,on .euivalent for SIF between the Borrower asgd BdE And
V renctivg lv. wuld have been  utd t;g rhe Oatalan Cogna                   (para.
7*4(i)). Should fundInat aar,enta tota.ine  11828.0 aUlion botwen th
Darrower and 3= and 1. rscytvly. not hAM  been atend rd becam
£ffgctive  it sonthb after the effecgtveness of the Bank loan, thl would



24
en.tfrke_ a   _~dv .1 _he  _ank (par.. 7.5). There to still a financing gap
of V9$$ mULLen ubic  to expected to be filled by September 30, 1994. IDB
and the 0M  Fund have expressed preliminry interest. daAUMMMgj
urowLdsd Sta.~ AeM  dot th   oroe would undetlake to nodeUSS8. 
W=llgon to                  30b t r IL  1994. Ig the e ggg e r o Ag othr &ource  of
fAanlA  OEMd he avaIll  (pre. 7.3).
D. ftcrau
S. 12.   ror       of goods * work and corvices financed with Bank funds
would be carred out In accordac with BDank guidelies (Table 4). DrwAM
nezoIatoma.ai~eaen  Mg reached dhat the, Borrower would use Drermnt
hIddlat doeweats fr Bank-flnanced *acLWtle (para. 7.2(f)).
ET I R ODS BY C&TOIGY
1 . IX 1-- I JB~~~~~~~~~~IF                           TOA
Civil works *ad Material        0.0      6.8      11.9      49.3     68.0
(6.1)   (10.7)             (16.8)
EquIpment                       0.0      0.1       0.1       0.4      0.6
(0.1)    (0.1)              (0.2)
Consultants, Treicing  and      0.0      0.0       2.0       4.2      6.2
Auditor.' serice Y                                (2.0)               (3.0)
Sal.arie,  llwganes and         0.0      0.0       1.0       4.2      5.2
Operating Cost. of the Sir                        (1.0)              (1.0)
TOTLS   0.0        6.9     16.0      57.1      80.0
(0.0)    (6.2)   (13.8)             (20.0)
Note. liuwes in parenthese  are the aounts estimated to be financed by the
Bank
3D? -  Not Bank lanced
1/     Consultants end other service contracts procured under procedures
acceptable to t4e Sank
Local Shopping and Direct Contracting
5.13. For aift" J.. g, contracts estimated to cost US$55,000 equivalent or
more, but 1se tban-S$500,000, vuld be procured through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCD). The aggregate asount of JCB Is xpected to be US$6 .8 million.
No lnternational copetitive, bidding (ICB) to expected because of the
decentralised nature of UF operations and the small size of subprojects. The
average esie of subprojects io expected to be about US$30,000 and the maximum
is expected to be  S$400,000. To the extent possible, contracts for works
would be combined In packages of US$500,000 or more and awarded on the basis
of LCD, In accordance with lnk procurement guidelines.
5.14.  For civil works contracts over US$30,000 and below US$55,000, local
shoppitg requiring at let two quotations would apply. The aggregate mount
expected under lal shopping is US$11.9 illion. Local shopping is justified
becoaus the scale of most subprojects ould be quite small and demand little,
if anyo, havy equpmant. Most works would be carried out in scattered places



25
in 329 municipalities over a period of  ro tely two yers. Under these
circumstances, it is unlikely that large dmoetic contractors would be
Interested In bidding for civil work.  8JI would  gree, to establish a system
of standard regionalised unit prices that would guide the selection of
cotract under local shaopping. In c"e whe" It is reaonable to conclude
that only oe offer is wailable, SIT wuld negotiate the price of the
contract directly with the iplemting agscy usis the staDdard regionalized
unit prices. This system of contracting would apply for contracts up to a
aeximum of US$25,000, and up to an aggregate mont of US$5.9 million. This
schedule of standard regionalized unit prices would be maintained and updated
by 8D! *t least every six mths. *DrAM natoiaeiona sareemnt wag reached
tSht no later thn Agril 1 and October 1  of each Year. nd j&arit  on Aril
1. 1999. the SIZ would review theltandard rs,ona.llsed uit Dricos for goodg
andwo,. eatablished by SIF igointlv with the eBank. a   cagu  SIP to chba 
rmtlv s uch Drices.n Ife  sad subance gatisfactory to the Bank. If so
recormended &Z sudb a review (para. 7.2(8)). This procedure is acceptable to
tbh Bank ln view of: (i) the importance of administrative simplicity for
handlitg about 20 contracts per week; and (11) the operational audit system
whih would review procurement in subprojects on a quartorly basis (para.
5.23). The audits would include physical audits of suall works contracted
through direct negotiation.
S 15.  The total amount of toods expected to be financed under the project is
US$200,000. The types of goods expected to be procured under the project are
baic equipment for health posts and schools  LCB would apply for contracts
above US$25,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000, end local shopping
for contracts less than US$25,000, up to an aggregate monunt of US$100,000.
5 16. Consultats ould be selected In accordance with Bank guidelines for
the use of consultants. Consultant contracts would be handled by UNDP using
standard terms of contract acceptable to the Bank, up to a limdt of US$20,000.
The contracts for monitoring and evaluation studies (Annex 11) would be
subject to approval by the Bank. Any taxes to be paid by consultants would be
excluded from Bank financing.
5.17. A 2rio  revie limit of US$200,000 for works and US$100,000 for goods
would be applied to all LCB contracts. The first contract of each kind (i e,
for works and for goods), regardless of the amount, would be reviewed by the
Bsank. The expected number of contracts submitted to the lank for prior review
is about twelve. The bslane would be subject to intenive ex-post review by
the Bank after the contract award. Direct contracting would be subject to a
satisfactory review by the Bank of the standard regionalized unit prices
adopted by the SIP every six months.
5.18.  In the view of the Bank, Guatemala's procurment procedures and
regulations (Decree Law 35-80 of July 1980 and other legislation) contain some
proviions which are in conflict with Bank procurewmet policy. Said
legislation, however, has been superseded by a new Procurement Decree recently
ncted by Congress and which is expected to be published soon. According to
Article 1 of such Decree, the provisions of international agreements or
treaties constitute a logitimate exception to the provisius therein.
Therefore, Bank-financed procurement would be ruled by the provisions of the
Loan Agreement. Given that the Bank has not had an opportunity to review in
detail the new Procurement Decree, It is not possible to specify in detail at



26
this time  hch provisions shuld apply in response to any possible
conflicting provision tharein. omwever, during negotiations of the proposed
project, two ways hve bee  agreod to for ensuring that all procurement to be
financed by the Bank under the project adheres strictly to Bank procurement
guidlines. Firsts th, e lak would refrain from disbursement in respect of
subprojects or contracte for goods until SIP has adopted standard bidding
documets, satisfactory to the Bank (pars. 5.12). The Bank would provide SIt
the neessry assistance to prepare and adopt standard bidding documents to
eosure that SIP procuremet procedures are consistent with Bank gudeline.
Socoand enactnt by Congress of a Decree creating $IN on terms acceptable to
the Bank is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project (para. 4.5),
and such Decree include provisions ruling specific procurement provisions to
be applied, consistent with Bank guidelins.
S. Disbursements
5.19.  The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of about four
years, to be completed by June 30, 1997. The final date for presentation of
subprojects by SIP to the Bank ould be December 31, 1996. The project
closing date would be December 31, 1997 (i.e., six months after completion
date). The *pected disbursement profile is shorter than the profile for LAC
projects in the social sector, but is consistent with profiles for other
sinilar social investment funds.
5.20. Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expendituret (a) SIN Suburolects: 90S of disbursements by SIP approved on or
before June 30, 1996 according to the SIF'. subproject selection and
evaluation procedures; (b) Agupmgnts 1002 of eligible foreign expenditures
and 80S of eligible local expenditures; (c) Consultant Services for technical
ssistance to SIT, municipalities, GOs, community groups:  1002; and (d) SIP
Salaries. Allowances. and MNaitenance: 1002 up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.5 million, 502 up to an aggregate amount of US$0.s7 million, and 252
thereafter.
5.21. Documtot-to  of Upondtureg  Withdrawl applications for goods and
for works with a contract value of US$100,000 or more would be supported by
full documentation. Contracts of less than US$100,000 and disbursements
against operating costs would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOs), for which supporting documents would be maintained by SIP
and made available for review by Bank staff. Because the average Individual
subproject cost would be about US$30,000, it is expected that the majority of
subprojects wuld be documented on the basis of SO0s. A Special Account would
be opened In the Central Bonk of Guatemala, with an Initial deposit of US$2.0
million equivalent, corresponding to about four months of expenditures under
the project. Withdrawal applications forwarded to the Bank for disbursement
(SOe or full documentation) would cover a number of subprojects or contracts
for services whoso aggregate sum would be at least US$100,040.
. AnditL&a
5.22. Under the project, 8IP would be audited by private independent
external auditors, acceptable to the Bank, who would undertake annual audits
of SIT. Not later than six onth. after the end of each fiscal year, the
Borrover would submit an audit report on the Special Account and would cause



27
8!? to submit to the Bank certified coples of audit report. onu (1) balanco
chsts, Income statemente, cd auditor'. opinion of fiaual ctatemstc; (11)
S1oBt (iiI) whether poc rt of all contract. vas carried out in accordance
vith agred r r        t  and (iv) an  aalysis of whether intermal control In
placeo a     q     to tinimio the possibllity of miuso of funds or other
improprietic.
5.23.  In addition, the auditors would undrtake special qurterly audit. of
SIN's operations on the basis of acceptable accounting noms and procedures.
The auditors would  *mfte a sample of .ubprojects, review the idividual
contracts, acertain whether the tenw of tb"e  contracts are complied with,
-inpect the progress of work., reconcle the physical progress with the
financial expes in lcurrds, and *tate whether procurement requiraments are
boing r pected. The auditors would prepare quarterly reports for 81W'.
MaNaging Coimttee and fot the leak, to be submitted no later than two months
after each quarter, ad an annual summary would be sent to the lank. The
auditor. would review a significant ample of subprojects, acceptable to the
Bank. Quarterly reports owuld focus on subprojects where errors have been
detected and would provide an opinion on whetber all other subprojects
exmined were In accordance with the terms of their contracts. lSuflg
neoeiatione. areemnt wa reached that private inaeaendent? external
jUdt~ora. acegutgakie -to__h Bank. would undertake:- (1) Dannl audits of ~
bohinnin as of  ec-ember 31. 1993 and subit such to the Sankgwthinair
months Saft  the end of each galendar yearz and (iA) gguel Mic   urter4y audit_
oif Up's goneratons gn dhe baslsgof ggor ms gng voc.ur acceptably to tde
5aaik (para. 7.2(h)).
5.24. In addition to the mentioned external audit requirement., the
Comptroller Goneral's Office of Guatemala (ContralorId General de Cuentas)
would conduct its 6wn auditing of the 8IP, as well as of persons or entitles
who receive goverMnot funds, s is required by law for autonomous entities Im
Guatemala.
0. Monitoring and Sunervision
5.25. There would be thre types of monitoring and supervisions (a) a
continuous feedback systems (b) semi-annual reports; and (c) annual reviews.
5.26. Cgnttowus F dback* Throughout the course of the year, SIT
management would compare actual subproject proposal. sad approvnls against the
key performance indicators set forth in Annex 15. If the pace of subproject
proposals for a particular type of subproject or for a particular municipality
suggests that the lntite would not be reahed, this would trigger more active
promotion by the STY. The information would also be conveyed to potential
sponsoring agencies that might be able to help prepare subproject proposals in
the areas where proposal. are lacking. Municipality-specific or region-
pecifie data from ID  would also be useA to examin  the eharacteriatics of
the municipalities where the subproject proposals and funding are different
from anticipated.
5.27.  In addition, the 8I  would mnitor internal efficiency indicators  uch
as the monthly number of subproject proposal, the average tie a subprojeet
proposal spends at each phase of the subproj ct cycle of promotion, appradsal,
and supervision, and the return and rejection rates of subproject proposals.



28
Thes. internal Indicators would be used to determine whether the SIJ has
allocated sufficient staff to the task.. The monitoring indicators would be
calculated from the data that ore required to appraise the proposals.
5.28.  Semi-Annual Rsorts. The S  would submit to the Bank semi-annual
reports (not later then one month after the and of each semi-annual period),
including the following informtion by region and sector: (S) subprojects
presented, appraised, in executions, completed, and evaluated ex-post including
dh number of subprojects and benficiaris, amounts committed and executed,
and average cost per beneficiary per yerw (11) sources of funds for each
subproject; (IIi) the SIN's personnel and consultants requirements, indicating
chaoges that have taken place during the reporting period; and (iv) operating
costs of the SIP. Beporttg formats would be harmonized to minimlze the time
required by SIT staff to prepare these reports. Dunn negotlatlons.
areement wa rgched that SZP would  "ovd. seadt-an"l regorts with
contents. fornat. and timetablo accsCabla to the Bank (para. 7.2(i)).
5 29. AML%gJRevl. The Government end the Bank would conduct annual
reviews of the efficiency and effectivnoss of the SI1 based on key
perfonmsnce indicators (Annex IS), reults of the monitoring and evaluation
studies (Annex II)* and progress of techalcal assistance. The reviews would
analyze the following:
(i)    characteristics of the sposoing asgencies;
(ii)   best practices among subprojecto in different sectors including
environment aspects (Annex 11(c));
(iii)  distribution of subprojects within municipalities, particularly
the mix between municipality seto and rural villages (para.
4.14, Annex 11(b));
(iv) participation of women and tidagenous groups in the SIP (Annex
11(d))t;
(v)    mean response time for *ach phaJe of the subproject cycle;
(vi)   effectiveness of the coordination with the line ministries
(para. 4.33);
(vii) institutional development of the SIP, adequacy of staffing and
technical assistance, and experience with field offices (paras.
4.31-4.32, Annex 10);
(viii) experience of the HIS and ¢18 (pare. 4.34, Annex 11(a), Annex
11(b));
(ix)   participation of GOs In the project (paras. 4.12-4.13);
(x)    adequacy of counterpart financing (paras. 4.36-4.38);
(xi)   progress in achieving targets of the Government's Letter of
Social Sector Developmet Pollcy (para. 3 1, Annex 2, Annex
11(e), and Annex 11(f));
(xii) compliance with institutional and staff development plans
(Annex 10);
(xiii) environmental reviws (par"s. 6.5-6.7); and
(xiv)  strengthening of Implementing agencies, particularly in the
poorest areas (pars. 4.18, 4.32, 5.3, and Annex 10).
5 30   To prepare for these reviews, 8IJ vould use the semi-annual reports
referred to in para. 5.28, SIP administrative records, and the results of
monitoring and evaluation studies to be carried out by consultants (Annex 11).
Durl -nesotlatlona. aareemnt was reached on terms of reference for



29
conadutgntg to  g egontaeed lor the atudes to be greared for and rgteveed
dunr. the anmal Mai=  (Annex 11) (para. 7.2(j)).
5.31.  In addition to the above topics to be lcluded In all awual reviae,
the secod suwua  riew would anlyze the feasibility of decentralising
approval of subproj et to regional offices and the seond and third anual
revIews wuld Include a welfare Impact study of selected SIP ivestments (to
be completed one uoath prior to the date of the review). Dug s JgtlatgW.L
eeAt was reahd  hat the Borrowr void Underte  snnual redvi     of SIF
by AtU Sg of 1994. 1995. and 1996. renctivelvr. Baged on dlacuaalo    of
the aboe rZviu  with td  Bkk. th. Borrowr wld nro  aati"afctonr
aotin  pl1n  ad 1 _nLMn  thea no later than three month. aftgr the
reamUctr&r rau  (par&. 7.2(k)).
S.32. The project would require intee supervision from the Bank given its
complexity. It is expected that an average-of 23 staffweeks would be required
for annual supervision. The annul review is expected to require 15
staffweeks, with the remaining eight stafweeks for field visits (four one-
week visits) and work at headquarters (four weeks). The Bank's annual review
team would be led by the task manager end would includet (i) an engineer to
review socil and economic infrastructure subprojectes (ii) a specialist in
comunity participation, who would look at 4IF's effectiveness in reaching
target groups; (i1_) a management specialist with experience in management
information systems; (iv) a social scientist vith extensive project experience
to review social assieuamnce subprojects; and (v) a social scientist with
experience i Impact evaluation.
VI. IRUPTS AND URS
A. Benefits
Pavert A411evlaelon and Instiltution41 DeveloJment
6.1.   By providing resources to poor urLan and rural communities, the SIJ
would helps (i) prevent deterioration In the living standards of the poor
during the period of economic adjustment; (ii) improve basic health and
education facilities currently deteriorated and lacking basic equipment to
operate; (iii) reduce incidence of water-borne diseases by expanding coverage
of water and sanitation; (iv) Improve health, nutrition, and literacy,
particularly among women and childreas and (v) strengthen the Government's
experience ith a decentralized mechanism for delivering devolopment
assistance to municipalities and small businesses and mobilizing grassroots
efforts, which could subsequently be used by other agencies.
Particlpation of Homen
6.2. 81P would strongly encourage women's participation. Many of the types
of subprojects the 8IF would finance directly benefit wvoen and would be
strongly promoted (Anne 4). The demand-driven mechanism used by SIP would
support the Government's objective to Incorporate community organizations,
particularly vomen' groups, into thb development process.  Given that the
existence of a local committee and counterpart financing from the community
are requirements for most SIP subprojects, the 8IP would provide a systematic



30
channel for warm to participate In improving the woll-being of their
ouseholds atn cod unliti. Women's groups vould be able to submit
subprojoets directly to the SIr without having to go through the formal
political structure, where their lack of power would be an obstacle to their
participation. Is additlon, womens groups vuld recelve technical assistane
froi the SI? to belp them prepare subprojects.
6.3. The STY would monltor the typo of subproject proposals it receives
from women's groups.  tI preparation for the annual reviews, studies (Amnex
11) would be conducted to evaluate SIY'. effectiveness in reachtng target
groups, including women. The studies would involve anthropological evaluation
techniques and would make recomsendation. on measures to increase women's
participation.
Partiecip*tin of Indisenous Ponulation
6.4.   STI would strongly promote subprojects encouraging the participation
of indigenous people and would monitor progress in achieving that objective,
Including the study evaluating SI?'. effectiveneas in reaching target groups
(Annex 11)  First, the poorest municipalitiest In which the indigenous
population is concentrated, would receive more funds per capita under the
targeting plan (pars. 4.14). Second, 8I? promotional materials would be
prepared in the local language and promotional staff would speak the local
dilect (para. 4.24). Third, indigenous communities would be able to submit
their proposals directly to SI?. ourth, SI? promoters and appraisers would
be required to ensure that subproject proposals reflect the preferences of the
beoeficiarle and not the priorities of sponsoring agencies. Finally, as part
of the project's third component of strengthening of sponsoring and
implementing agencies, the project would stren8then the capacity of indigenous
groups to prepare subprojects (pars. 4.18, 4.32, and 5.3).
6.5. The project has an environmental 8 rating. Although the chief
objectives of the project are to improve health and nutrition indicators,
several environmenatl protection measures have been incorporated into project
mechanists to safeguard pbysical and cultural resources and to strengthen
local capacity for environmental protection. First, the project would sponsor
a water-testing regime which, in addition to tho routine measurement of
subterranean aquifers for flow and purity, would also measure the presence of
besardous and toxic substances which may be infiltrating groundwater from
farmland runoff. Second, technical manuals for rural roads would incorporate
provisions for the rapid environmental ass essmnt of rural road construction.
Previous work by the U.S. Agency for International Development (UAID) on this
subject provides a ready source of technical material for this purpose.
Third, the SIF would contract a suitable technical agent, such as the National
Institute of Anthropology and History, to develop appropriate safeguards to
protect cultural patrimny. In the second year of the project, the SIF would
explore the possible inorporation of reforestation by municipalities as free-
standing water and soil conservation meaures.
6.6. An es-ants environmental analysis of the entire project is impractical
and unnecessary becouse civil works contemplated in the project are small-
scale (e.g.,p coounity water wells), are scattered over 329 municipalities,



31
and would draw upon local quifers in very small quatities. Similarly, works
on rural feeder road would concentrate on improvements which are likely to
roduce erosion and improv  drainage.  here  onvironmental analysis may be
cessary, procedures for detecting adverse impacts on physical and cultural
resources would be aWplyed, as described above.
6.7.   The SU would conduct sx-ante enviromental reviews of subprojects
that are likely to have as impaet on the physical or natural enviroment,
*.S., rural roads and aoter and sanitation subprojects. The first contract
for each of theso types of .ubprojects# regardless of th mamunt, would be
teviswed by the Bank. Subsequently, the environmental review  would be
analyzed by the Bank on a somple b"sis at the annual reviews. Compliance with
the reviews would be checked as part of the regular supervision as well as
quarterly audits of subprojects (pares. 5.22-5.32).
A. Ua,ke
6.8.   The lain risk is that resources could be diverted to uses not
envisaged in the project. The experience of the Bolivia RSF and the Honduran
OI, however, indicates that a good mangement information systems, close
supervision and frequent auditing can reduce this risk substantially.
Horeover, provisions have been made to closely monitor fiasncing and to take
corrective action if the actual allocation of funds departs significantly from
the initial objectives of the project.
6.9. A second risk is that some coumunities and institutions that have
suffered at the hands of previous governments may not be willing to
participate to the SIJ program. This risk is reduced by the emphsis that has
been placed on tba transparency of operations. As the SIP develops a track
record with the communities, the possible initial resistance to the project is
expected to di4miUnh.
6.10. A third risk is the setting up of an entirely new institution to
operate oan a decentralixed basis in a country that does not have a good
history of project implementation. To addrses this risk, measures have been
taken to ensuro that the SIP would have the proper inceutives to operate
afficiently. The SIP Decree would provide it with the legal basis to be
escluded from bureaucratic restrictions which could impede effective
implementation. Finally, the SIF would receive extensive technical
aaistance, with the hiring of national and international consultants
coordinated by UMDP. These provisions should give the 8IP a tecbhncally
competent staff and annual reviews would provide an opportunity to take
corrective action and improve project design.



32
VIZ. * AGURIM3US TO II 3EACNED
7.1.  During negotiation, the Borrower submitteds
(a)    a Letter of Social Sector Development Policy, satisfactory to
the Blak (par.. 3.14); and
(b)    evidence of a draft agreement between 8IF and uND? for
technical assistance totaling US$0.7 zl-l1on, satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 5.11).
7.2.   During negotiations, agreement wa rachods
(a)    that any appointment to the position of Executive President
would ba subject to prior Bank consultation (para. 4.6);
(b)    that productive sector subprojects would not represent more
than 102 of SIP financing (para. 4.16(d));
(c)    that sny change to the Operational Manual of the SI would
require the Bank's prior approval (para. 4.26);
(d)    that subprojects coating more then US$100,000 and the first
subproject in each Bank-financed sub-program (Annex 4) would
require the Blak's prior approval (para. 4.27);
(e)    on the amount of funds to be contributed by the Borrower to SIP
and on the schedule of disbursements of funds throughout the
project Implementation period and She tiaing thereof (para.
5.10);
(f)    that the Borrower would use procurement procedures in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines, including standard
bidding documents for Bank-financed activities (para. 5.12);
(g)    that no later than April 1 and October 1 of each year, and
startlng on April 1, 1993, the 81T would review the standard
regionalised unit prices for goods and works, established by
8IJ jointly with the Bank, end cause STP to change promptly
such prices, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, if
so recommended by such a review (para. 5.14);
(h)    that private independent external auditors, acceptable to the
lank, would undertakes (i) annual audits of SIT beginning as
of December 31, 1993 and submit such to the Bank within six
months after the end of each calendar year; and (ii) special
quarterly audits of SIP's operations on the basis of norms and
procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.23);
($)    that SIP would provide semi-annual reports with contents,
format, and timetable acceptable to the Bank (par.. 5.28);



33
(j)    on terms of ref.reice for conultants to be contracted for the
studios to be prepared for and reviewed during the anual
reviews (Annex 11) (para. S530); and
(k)    that the Borrowr would undertake annual reviews of SIN by
April 30 of 1994, 1995f, nd 1996, respectively. Based on
discussions of the above reviews with the Bank, the Borrower
would prepare satisfactory action plans and implemmet them no
later than three moths after the respective reviews (para.
5.31).
7 *3   Assurances were provided at negotiation. that the Borrower would
undertake to provide US$8.0 million to 8IP by September 30, 1994, in the case
where no other sources of financing would be available (para. 7.3).
7.4.   The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)    SIP would have been created by Decree or Decrees on terms
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.5);
(b)    a finalized Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, would
have been adopted by 61F (para. 4.26)S
(c)    an agreement for technical assistance between UNDP and SIF
totaling US$0.7 million, satisfactory to the Bank, would have
been signed (para. 4.31);
(d)    signed cooperation agreemnts between SIP, line ministries and
the 401, satisfactory to the Bank, would be received (para.
4.33);
(e)    an initial Managemet Information System (MIS), satisfactory to
the Bank, would have be acplemented (para. 4.34);
(f)    a Subsidiary Agreemet for making the funds available by the
Borrower to $IF, satisfactory to the Bank, would have been
entered into (para. 5.4);
(g)    a funding agreemt of U8$0.7 million between the Borrower and
UNDP providing technical asistance to SIP, satisfactory to the
Bank, would have been signed (para. 5.11);
(h)    draft contractual agreemnt agreed between the Borrower, BCIE,
Mf., and SIP to make BCIN and Ifl loans available to SIr,
satisfactory to the bank, would have been received (para.
5.11); and
(i)    funding agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, tot%ling US$28.0
million equivalent for STU between the Borrower and BCIT and
RfW, respectively, would have been submitted to the Guatemalan
Congress (para. 5.11).
7.5.   Soeci1l Kvent of Default. Should funding agreements totaling US$28.0
million between the Borrower and DCMK and KfV, respectively, not have been



34
.tped and become offective six mnoth. after the of fectivaese of the Bank
loa, this would constitute a remdy of the Dank (para. 5.11).
7.6.  liatlo        . Subnject to the above conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a sultable basis for a Bank loan of US$20 ailUon equivalent
to the Republic of Guatemala, to be repa$d over a period of 20 yers,
including a five-year grace period.



LIST ON AMES
1*   Soio-9con1c Indliators
2.   O,rum.at of Guat.inla'e Letter of Soel Sector selo at Poliey
3.   Draft Outlia of Operational _Na1
4.   NIo  of Subprojects
S.    eophSic Targtiu  Criteri sad Poerty Hap
6.   Draft Dear" Creati  SI.
7.   Opetion of SIW. Donand-Driven Mechanism
S.   SM Organisation
9.   5? Particlpant.
10. MNDP Technical Assistance
11.  Tor. of Ref erco for Maitoring and Rvauatiom StUd.
12. Cost. and Pluaecing
13.  Procw.t
14.  Dl brt
iS.  Key Prfoc  Idicators
16. Selected Documents Available in Project NIle



W4XTSMJIA                      ?Pas  I of I
SOCIAL IUVBESUIT lUND PROJECT
.  ER(S) OF
, ICATOR                     UNITS        REI,ENC_     VALUE
GNP Per Capita                             US$            1990        900
Illiteracy               -                                1990         45
Gross Enrollment In PrImay Schools 1                      1989         79
Infant Mortality                     Per 1,000 births     1990         62
Underwioght Children (0-4 year.)            S           1980-1987      34
Births Unattended by Bealth Stadff   _                    1985         19
Stunted Children (2-5 years)                S            1980-87       68
Law Weight at Birth                         1             1985         10
Maternal Mortality                   Per 100,000 live     1980        110
births
Sources:    World Develouegat Renort 1992, World Banks State of the World's
gh1ik   1991, 0UICEF.



Poge 1 of 13
300!AL IUVES18 T ,UN  113
MINISTERIO DE FINANZAS PUBLICAS
GUATEMALA C. A
DMFP-168-92                  October 29th, 1992
Mr. Lewis Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 M. Street* N. W.
Washington, I. C. 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
The basic objectives of the Government's social setor policy are to reduce
poverty and Increase ocial welfare. Thee will be pursued through a variety of
proorms to improve health services and raise matrition levels, and expand the
coverage and improve the quality of education.  Progres will be achieved
through: (a) lncreases in public spending in the social sectors; (b)
strengthening of delivery capabilitie  throug  decentralization of budget
decision-making, streamlining of administrative procedures, implementation of
innovative projects and programs, and training of staff; and (c) efforts to
better target expnditures and services for the most vulnerable groups and obtain
the highest social return on spending. To help achieve these objectives, we
request from the World Bnk a loan of US$2O million equivalent for a Social
Investment Fund project.
Guataaalas population, growing at a rate of 2.8%, is multicultural and
multilingual with a strong Indigenous presence. Over 60% of the population live
in rural aras, dispersed awong 19,000 small communities of le"s than 2,000
habitants. She health status of the  uatmalan population is deficient. Infant
mortality, (79 deaths per 1000 live births) and maternal mortality (1.3 per 1000
live births) are high when compared with other Latin Aerican countries at a
similar stae of developjont. Contagious disease and illnesses associated with
poor hygiene are aong the main catse of death.  Over 50% of the deaths of
children are related to ritestinal and respiratory diseaes brought on by the
lack of potable water and  a     facilities, and poor housing oonditionr.  In
189 mortality among children under five was 102 per 1000 live birthb. with most
deaths eaily preventable t1rough better sanitation, as well as vaccination and
basic primary health car. Again, the incidece a infant and maternal mortality
Is hiher among indieous groups. Almost 33% of children under the age of tbr.e
auffer frcm chronic malnutrition.
1



Page 2 of 13
MI(I)tST.RIO DE FINANZAS PUBLICAS
GUATEMALA. A Q
The educational profile of the popalation is among the lowest in Latin
America, particularly when compared to other countries with similar income
levels.  At 61%, net primar  sChool wnrolbont is the lowest in the Central
Amorican region ond only half of the population completes the sixth grade. Only
27% of the ehildren sged 5 and  are enrolled in school. In the rural area with
largely indigenous ppulations, the eduational profile is much worse than the
national average.  Only 49 out of 100 rural girls are enolled in school,
compared to 74 out of 100 in urban areas. In 1989, 49% of the population was
illiterate, and in ome of the poorer rural areas illiteracy reached 72%.
Improving education is especially challenging given the ethnic complexity
of the society, one of the most diverse in LAtin America. About one half (48%)
of the population ts indigenous, descendants of the Hayans. There are over 21
separate indigenous groups, each with their own langage. Although most of the
indigenous population sr*aks one of the tbree maor indigenous language& (Quich4
KakcMhiquel, and Kekchi), the maJority of the indigenous population continues to
speak little Spanish whicb makes it difficult for them to take advantage of
educational and bealth programs offered by line ministries. The demograpic
structure also poses formidable challenges to education, particularly for women
and children. Almost balf (46%) of the population is under 15 years of age.
Plw of these children ar located in the geographically dispersed and etbnically
unique counmities.
Soeia1 Sector Deveomset >Piog
In response to these pressing social problems, the Government has
elabora0ed a ocial ector development program. As noted above, the Government4s
ovrall social sector obJectivea are to reduce porty and improve the social
welfar of all Guatemalane through the generation of pvductive  emploment,
increased lnstments In bumn resources, and emergency transfers to the most
vulnerable seguents of the population a transitional basis. The Government's
economic strategy   seeks to promote the efficient creation of produotive
employment through more open markets, adequate incentives, and inatitutional
support arrangements.
The Goornments social setor stratey seeks improvwents in basic
education, health and nutrition (specially of pregnant women and children), and
water and sanitation. Wajor obJectives include:
(i)     Reducing extreme poerty through Increasing the por's acces  to
sufficient food. This would oocur through enhncing the poor's
purchasing power and agricultural productivity;
2



Page 3 of 13
M)INISTERIO DE FINANZAS PUBLICAS
GUATEMALA2. C P
(ii)    Developing the productive capability of the poor. Training is a
critical element in  the  mm  attrategy  since huma  resoure
development rePresent- an investment with high social returns and
allows the population to better meet Its basic needs;
(iii)   Increaing social service coverage and quality. Improving access of
the poorest segments of population to social services (health,
education. nutrition) oonstitutes one of the key actions to enhance
quality of life for the majority of Guatemalans; and
(iv)    Reassigning resources to benefit the soial sectors and enswe their
efficient use.   Increasing access to  social services for a
heretofore underserved majority of the Guatemalan population
justifies a significant increase in budgetary allocations for the
social areas in general and for education and bealth in particular.
Improvemnut in the efficiency of primary education and the coverage
and effectiveness of preventive health care would be the mot oost-
effective utilization of the public tudget.
Impleentation of the Social Sector Developent Policy will also reVire
vibstantial institutional change to expand coverage and Improve quality of social
services in a cost-effective manner. The interwetoral nature of this policy,
combined with the extrem poverty conditions and the need to ensure effecient
vrocedre  to  exeoute projects, justifies the  implementation of special
mecanism  to suport this area. as Saplemntation of the administrative
modernization masu'es in the social sector line ministries will require time.
The Governmnt h  therefore decided to establish a Social Investment Fund (SIO).
The SI will address some of the immediate needs for health, nutrition,
educationr, and productive etor of por mral commities. While the SIF will
rely on local institutions, group,, and NGOs for its implementation, it will
coordinate closely with the necessary line ministries to ensure that the
subprojects are incorporated into the progres of those minstries.
To provide health and eduation services in an effective maer to the
entire population over the long term, the Governmet will decentralise service
delivery by introducing new inovative mechanics for service delivery and
.utinietrative methods and training individals to carry out ae  taaks. These
actions will be combined with the teobzical strehening of Regionl,
DepartMental and Mmicipal Councils, to improve their capability to plan ad
administer developmnt projocta. Likewise, commity activities will be promoted
to complement the Goverment's investment efforts.
3



Page 4 of 13
MINISTCRIQ DE FINANZAS PUBLICAS
GUATEMALA. C A.
To increas institutional capability to effectively absorb and channel
available resoces to priority investment areas with higher social retur, the
Govrnmet will, in the short- and medium-tezm, streamline its proedures
throgh: (i) dcentralizing the decision-making proces; (ii) establishing
effective supervision mechaanisem. In the long-term, municipal goverments and
their institutional infrastructure will also be strengthened. The Government
will also retivate mehanisms for inter-institutional coordination, both at the
national levels, to maintain cohesiveness betwen social and economic policies.
To enhance successful Implementation of social programs, the Goverment
will:
(1)     Implement an institutional modernization program of pubic agencies
in the social area.
(ii)    Establish agile and operational work program., in which private
entities will be incorporated with public sector units to jointly
OxeOute emergency actions;
(iii)   Strengthen Regional and Departmental Development Concils as well as
the Ilnicipalities in their technical capabilities, with a view to
improve program administration capability;
(iv)    Facilitate and strengthen the participation of local community
grup  and of the private  sector  in  Program planing  and
implementation so that initiatives are adapted to local
circumstances and the population bcomes involved and more
responsible for the developant of social progrem;
(v)     Facilitate and activities of non-govermental orgSaitions through
the establishment of effective mechanisms for NMO coordination,
allowing tbea to participate in the develoent of relevant social
sctor polioies;
(vi)    Stress the essential role of tecmnical and fiacial cooperation
povided by national institutions and international, multilateral
*d bilateral organizations;
(vii)   Place special emphasis on enviromental aspets in prject planning.
wich would help halt environental degradation and thus allow the
Government to initiate actions with apporiate tecbnologies that
support environment conservation;
4



Pop. 5 of 13
MINISTERIO DE FINANZAS PUBLICAS
GEUATEMALA C A.
(viii)  Provide spial importance to hum  resources developmnt to oehance
the roRtb ad devlopment of children.
In order to esocute our Soioal Sector Strategy, we have initiatd a ne
Planning Process. This onsists of establishing goals, defining goals, defining
lnveotment projects to achieve thos, goals, monitoriu  progres in achieving
thee  a.ls, ad aodityin  investment program  as needed. The attached tables
provide our YreliMinarV targets. We are in the process of defining the specific
invetmet programs to tbh  abort and medium term to achieve thee goals and
scuring the nec"sary financing to implement them. While rcognizing that the
goals we  reliminar targets, we plan to use thee: (i) as guidelines for
monitorig          in achieving the objectives of our Social Sector Strategy;
and (Ii) as a basis for meaningful dialegue with the Bwnk on improvemet in the
social sector. Tey will be equally important for use in the analysis of overall
progess in eacb of the bealth, education. and social asaistance subeectora and
tbe reasseent of tarptg  to reflect actual implementation experience.
We would like to reiterate that the Government of Guatemala ia committed
to implemeting its sowial setor developent policy, believing that, together
with the program of eonomic modernization, it represents the most effective and
efficient  ans to meningfully improve the lives of the Guatemalan people. In
consideration of the program outlined above, the Government requests your
favorable consideration of a US$20 million loan for the Social Investment Fund
In suport of the cmtry's social sector development efforts.
Sincerly yours,
Aitkea M  cetllo       ,
- --    laiste of Finana
Repmble of Goatemla
AttacIml ts
5



ESMMAaD SHOWT-TERM HALTH IMES
TRUST (Soft)
SOR1 TM GM  V W LUA                 PM= SO S                       o Femif to   t rifer to _    rc                  T . TRL TM
._ ___.___ _   ____ _____    _992        1939        1994    _     9         1996
1. oae    Eartatlity in       A. Contnution and               191.2       231.4       271.7       311.9       34.4         151.6
Childen 0-5 On to diarm al   lnsl  tton of latrines
dismss by 2  by t19f           n 9,217 rual conmttfes         31.8         38.6        45.3        S2.0        52.0           2t9.7
_Lfatrines    Lattiet   Latrins    Latrime      Latrim          Latrines
3. Instllation of              191.2        A1.4        27.7        311.9 3_5.4 1_1.6
drffinf  ine system  In
9217 rural comnities.           2.1          3.3         S.3         30.0          .0          121.7
CorPred   Cem.Pred  CoxPr    Con6Pred  Conx.Pred                COM.Pred
nf  1.1                                   3,354  ._9.
Pil.Mtn   fil.PIs                               911l PitPlt  1Usd§t    M§t.st  If
_ _ _ _ _ _           Pu~~~~~~~~PU          PI          PMP       ___M)              i
C. Insteltatien of
dri,*i.u nter systiis fow
the ppulatin of th                 5           5           5           5           S              Z5
s&iwbin caitl ar           Com.Prsd  Conx.Pred  Conw.Pred  cons.Pred  Conw.Pred            CinexArd
C~amt.v eso million
D 10.l chlorlnization of
the  wr  aed thrmum                           15
pipes  In 325 imcipe      Nun.Cent1   uni.CbeJ     NnI.CesJ    NunI.CeiS   Nuni.Csn$       flCni.t
____c ntrc                                                                 __                                   _ __
2. Decr_e the prenlue of   A.           baport  sic ceanity
re iratoy infections In        ctions to redude acute
chfldrn OS by lSX In 196      respratoY infectIons.
rrainino of 32S
cinity leaders per            325         325         32          32S         32S           1,62S
'        tar              Leado       Leaders     Leaders     leders       Ladews         Leade
-  _iuet ot 20
progrem car year          6.010.3     6.173.S     6,341.2     6.15 6392                  316747.5
U nitts of filled pitcbers.                                                                                                                0E
SAM"s of m_lm  pmp.
8  Uacfpal oeters.



1I_     _                TARGETS (000)
SHORT TERM GOL FOR HUMAN             PRODUCTS          I(uders wa o swee ffc un1ts refer to betefeiary    tat a      altn TOTAL TARGETS
.. ____________________________  ___________:__ _-_ _1__                1993    1      1 9   5 199 9          1996     _____99_194_9___
B. Attend to 40X of
chiLdren 0.5 with acute
respiratory infections           432.7       444.5        456.6       596.0        483.1         2 412.9
acconring to risk             Children    Children    Children      Children    Children        Chldren
olassiffcatien.
C. Instruct 2000 rural             200         300          400        SO           600           2,000
commuitfos about acute         Ccmrm.      COmM.        Caome.       Ccmun.      Comm.        Commities
respiratory Infection.
D. Furnish essential drups
to health centers.
national, sancfpaL end
local phorsaeies for 402
of the rural polation in
1992, 45X in IM, 502 in        2,404.1     2,M.1        3,170.6      3,582.6     4,025.5        15,960.9
1994 SS fn 1995, and 602       edec.       Medic.       Medli.      Medic.       MedIc.          Nbee c.
in 1996.
3. tncrea  growth monitorn    A. Reach sOx of children
of childrn 0-5 by 202 in      05 with growth monitoring
1992, 90X In 1996.             action at least anwe In
1992, 60X In 1993, 70X in
1994 80X in 1995, end 90D
in 1996.                        828.3      1.023.0      1.229.5      1.4.5       1.671.9         6.197.2
B. Provide edcation in
growth monitoring for 552
of the rural famlfes fn
1992, 65  in 199, 70M in
1994 802 in 1995, ard 902        2,999       3,200        3,600       3,900        4,200          17,899
C. Sply 45 Ut of food
sa*sid es yearly fn
targeted rura and                1,610       1,690        1,700        1,788       1,900           8,68
mrginal urban
commaities.
0. Cover 40X of pregnant
womn with two controls in
1992, 452 in 193, SO% In
1994, 552 in 195, and 602        818.5       947.5      1,084.9      1,115.2     1,200.0         5,166.1
in 1996.                                                                                                       o



rAE (oft)
ShOMT TEUX OAL FOR MNMN               PRODUCTS            X             | fo sueclfIc m lts refer to benefcfir  atforn    TOtAL TARGETS
__________   _________                                         1992         1993         1994         1995        1996
E. Cover 70X of chIldren
under one year old with
am caroultat1on of growth
monItorIng in 1998, 751 In
1993, 801 in 1994 851 in         490.0        550.0       610.0        700.0        760.0           3,350
-~ ~~ M  ,W  M n  M._
4. feah an funmtaatfon         A. ProvIde Immlzatlcn
coverage for B0S, PodIo. OTP    eovorgp for children
o~nd easlet of 80X of          under onm      od as
chIldren 0-5.                  follows:    In 1992I  8 OO
In 1993, 801 In 1994, 901        260.9        286.5       294.8        341.3        351.1          i,53 6
In 1995. and 1001 In 1996.                                                        _
S. Provide inAmizatfon
coverag for chIldren 1-4
as follows: 75X In 1992
801 In 1993, 80X In 19 ,
90x In 1995, ed tOO1 In          981.5      1,077.6      1,109.0      1,283.8     1,320.8          6,093.3
1996.
C. lprowv the cold chafn
vaccinatIon prouam for
chIldren 0-S In 18 rural       1,600.0      1,700.0      1,750.0      1,790.0     1,8S0.0          8801.0
I ______________________________  co em m ltlos.            _                        I 
5. Reduee neonata mortalfty    A. Increase the percentage
to 18/1000 1ive births by      of d liverles attended by
1996.                          traIned mIdlfves to 63X In        170.5       200.6        323.2        265.5        300.5          1,169.3
1996.
S. Increase the mnuber of
dellverIes attended
InstItutIonaLLy In regIons
tl-VII W 30,000
delfverles each year
during the perIod 1992            66.0         90.0        120.0        150.0       180.0            651.0
I   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   1996.                -
6. Deliver appropriate         A. Estabtlsh famIly
periodic control of 601 of     educatlon awtivitIes In            30.0         30.0        30.0         30.0         30.0            150.0
pregnancIes by 1996.            rural areas.               _
B. Nnftor reproduct1ve
rIsks In falfies enrolled
In the program In rural           30.0        30.0         30.0         30.0         30.0           1S0.0
areas.                                            .                       .                                      O _



TARGS (00G)
SHORM  TM 13    L MUFOR 5MM           PRODUCTS             g Sbe    * fo     f f tae  t refer to benf'eflear n t.tln)     IWA%L TAGETS
DEVEOPNEJ                                             1992         193         1994   iIM9               19
C. Adinfster ferrous
sulphote nd other sicro-
nutrients to 602 of              6l3.1        842.5        976.4      1,115.2     1,258.9          5,117.6
reminctes.
7. Provide b mfun2tlon         A. Provide -eccinetficp
agsfnrt tetanfe toxofd to 602   agalnst tetenic toxold to
of pregnJt mowmn bt 1996.      40X of p         mn _n In
1992 4SX In 1993,SOX in
1994  55X In 1995S and 602       194.0        22S.7        256.0       292.0        327.S          1,45lS
in  1 496.                  _ _ _ _ _     _ _  _ _     _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _  __                _ _  _ _  _
B. AIdnlnster
emmfltery feeding to
80  fpresnt uoean
enrolled in health
program end provide 15 et
to 270,000 peqple per            270.0        270.0        270.0       270.0        270.0          1,350.0
-annu. 
jot
o 1f
1*b 



ESMT1MATED 811ORTtTEFtMWCATIRUT TAOCO
MW TM  ML FOR MAN             I IU"JI                       (widRDI  fo secific u its rfe  to  lwiciav  mulatfn)    MOTAL TMUT
~~~~_                       _     _     _     _     _99            199          199          195          196       _     _
t. 1ncrn thc l5cwy              A. Sir. un tfain 2000
po"ntow  to  X fn 16.           caity pters per                   200.0       2M0.0         24.0         316.0        350.0          1.380.0
U.                                          .                           .nia  _A
B. Ormlrtfon,
suparvisoln  d evluation           6.           7.8          7.8          8.6          9.S             39.5
of literacy    w.        .                                                .
C.  wleut_M t of
iwaim prso
oontnt  i ncluding
national identity a                  .            ..          .             ..          ._
biltrinl education.                   _ -
2. Increae erwage of            A. technical trafni                 5.4          6.0          j.5          3.2          7              33.0
extrea-wrriculr edat n fnt___
the a legions of the ossatry.   S. OrganIztion of
i teracy g     (30                0.9          1.0          1.1          3.6          3.9             10.S
n2esmner .Erouw).           _____ _                                          -______
C. Trafning of inust               10.0         t1.0        12.0         13.5         14.9             61.4
rers.                                     __..
0. Prodetion of radio               2.7         3.0          3.S          3.8          4.2             17.2
Proaram.                       Proargm     Promr          tr           P r    .Proo..r_r P
E. Diffufatn of radio              6.0          7.0          8.0          8.8          9.7             39.5
proGram.                          Nou         Hours         Hours    - -             Rowe             Hus
F. Prodiction of TV                0.2          0.3          0.4          0.5          0.6              2.0
program.                       Proaram      P rms       Prorm         P             cp r           Prorraom
6. Preparation of audfo            6.0          7.0          8.0          9.0          9.9             39.9
visual ater lol.               Packages     Paebag.e  Pasksoes        P                                 9e
H. Distribution of                  1.1         1.S          2.0          2.3          2,S              9.4
ediwational aterials.          PPes         Pa:k       cksm aoes      P        ckaems  P. aske.  P...eb.
3. Incr ea  the covage of       A. Nfring of te_dhe                 6.1          6.5          7.1          7.6         8.1             35.4
-school edcatfon to 60X             _
by l996.                        3. Teehnceal training and           0.5          O.S          0.5          0.5         0.S              2.5
s4pervision.                   Teachers    Teachers    Teachers      Teachers    Teachers          Teachers
C. Provision of materalts                                                                                         Om ..  ..   _  _  _ 
ond furniture.               _



TARGETS (000o)
SRT TEMN GIOA FOR SO                  PROMDUCTS            (umr o seific wits refer to    eterv   tlation)    TOTAL TARTS
D.   _.E  .T .      __._.                             1992         993         1994         1995         1996
0. Dfstribution of                10.0         10.0         10.0        10.0.1.0                       .0
llsro Lew  books.                          Packages    PaclSesmck    eskm                         pelopes
4. Incease the coverao  of     A. Nfring of teachers.             34.5         35.5        36.5         37.5         36.5           182.5
alte y edction to OM                                        _eachm        teacher      Teed""s    terehes    Teaeher             T"cerdw _
bv I.>                         S|. Teehmleat trsinng and           1.0          1.0         1.0          1.0          1.0             S.O
supervisi on.                 teecher      techers    tend"" rs     teacher      Teocher          Teadhers
C. Provision of sterlols
and furniture..........
D. Distribution of                10.0         10.0         10.0        10.0         10.0            50.0
utensils end boos.            P            Pakages    Packs          Packaes    Packags           Pakages
S. Increase the cover    of    A. Miring of teachers.              0.5          O.S         0.5          0.5          0.5             2.5
high school to 30X by 1996.                                   Teachers     Teachers    Teachers                  Teachers teachers
B. Technical training and          O.S          0.5         0.5          0.5          O.S             2.5
supervision.                  Teachers     Teachers    Teachers     Teachers    Teachers          Teochers
C. Provision of materilas
and furniture.                      ..           ..           ..          .                            .
6. Provide school snacks to    A. Provision of                 1,750.0      1,990.0      2,135.0     2,286.0      2      544.0    10,705.0
targeted thildron in publie    nutritional cookie.               Daily       Daily        Daily        Daly         Da ily          Daily
pre-schts wd  ementary                                         cookies      cookies     cookies      cookies      cookies         cookies
schoo ls.                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _
7. Extend the educsatfol       A. Provision of in-service   O.S Teach.  0.6 Teach.  0.7 Teach.   0.5 Teach.  0.3 Teach.    2.6 Teachers
services of the national       trfinino                     0.2 Promo.  0.3 Promo.  0.4 Proo.  0.8 Promo.  0.8 Proo.   2.2 Promoters
program of biltngual
educatfon to 4 mayensasw       B. Provisfon of materials
(local lan ges) end extend    and furniture.                        .      .           ..                 .._.._..
C. Evatuation.                O. Sch.    0.5 Sch.    0.5 Sch.    0.5 Sch.    0.5 Sch.         2.5 Schools
D. Distribution of
_tensils and books.            0.5 Sch.    0.5 Sc.    0.5 Sch.    0.5 Sch.    0.5 Sch.         2.5 Schools
8. Equipment end supply of     A. Production of school
school funiture.               desks.                             30.0         50.0  _     75.0        100.0        125.0           380.0
,~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               =      1     =      - ' 
S 
I..



ESTIMATED liHORT-TERMU SOCIAL ASSISTANCE TARGES
1992-1996
.-.,FICIAY POPUATION (0008)
mNt-TEE  UL FOR IIN                     PRODU=CS               (     w o e    1 C speff ifc    reft  toer   efcir    tatffon)    ITTAL TA TS
OEVELt  IEllt
_ _ . , IENT                                -            1992         1993    1                  199           1996
SOCIAL PR      IONTI      A. EstLisbhment of                   1.2           3.6          7.2          12.0                           24.0
1. ProvIdo coamity services   comuf ty cwntors, child                  mes       HNome           ms          Homes                         N1a1
to chfidren idr .xtrmem          care progrms, and                    15.0         30.0         45.0          60.0                          150.0
povrty eonditions                training of women and               Womn                      Wom
Comlmaity   promoter.        .
B. Assistao    to widow             0.10          0.15         0.20         0.30                           0.75
and orpwns, includin          Enterprfs.   Enterprfs.   Enteris.   Enterpr$s.                       EnteWpim
asestanc to organize                 O.S         0.75          1.00          1.50                          3.75
ror   tive enterises.             widow        Widows        Widows                                      Vfd_  
PRONTIOUOF MOUI            A. CretofOn of                         3             3            3             3            3                15
1. Reoranize, strgten  d    departmental offices of                Depts.         Dpept.        ets.        Depts.       Dps.         Departments
exted the Woman's  ational       GUAM.                                5.0          10.0          30.0        100.0         150.0            25.0
Office (GuM).                                     _Women                          Women         Women        Woen          Won              Women
B. Provision of training
and information services.             ..            ..           ..            ..           ..               .
2. Equipmeit for mobile          A. Provision of workshop               1S           15            18           1s            Is               78
workshops to train rural         equipment.                     Workshops      orkshops    Worbshops    Workshops    Workshops          Vorkshops
wo men.                            _     ____                                                                                             _
8. Provision of training              30            75          111           159          219              594
_workshoPs.                    Wboorh                     W sitShoPs    Workshops    Workshops        Workshohs
CNILI RENi IRI SPECIALLY
DtFFICULT CIUDRCSTANCUS       A. Prowision of legal               58.0         116.0        174.0        232.0         290.0            870.0
1. Attention to the working      "rotect"on.
child, proision of services
and information for young        8. Provision of vocational          58.0         116.0        174.0         232.0        290.0             870.0
workers.                         training.
2. Attention to the street       A. Provision of training            0.18          0.18          0.18         0.18          0.18              0.9
child.                           workshops for 60X of             6 Educ.      12 Educ.      18 Educ.     18 Educ.      18 Edue.         72 Educ.
street children by 1996.       1 Psycho.    2 Psycho.    3 Psycho.    3 Psycho.    3 Psycho.         12 Psycho.
2 Tehn.      2 Teen.       2 Techn.     2 Techn.      2 techn.        10 Techn.
I WOrksh.    I Worksh.    1 Worksh.    I Worksh.    I Worksh.          S Worksh.
B. Creation and operation      15 Couns.    15 Couns.    15 Couns.    15 Couns.    15 Couns.  75 Counsellors
of groups for drug and         15 Coord.    15 Coord.    15 Coord.    15 Coord.    15 Coord.   75 Coordfnat.
alcohol abuse preven'tfn
among youths.                                                                             _                            0



aC 2
Page 13 Of 13
19;
0    ...   



Page I of 2
OCIAL ZVEsiNT FD PROJECT
OUT I,  0O OPERTIONL HML
RT I
Gneral Presentation
PART II: 
2.0 Bard of Directors
2.1 Executive President
2.2 Managing Comittee
2.3 Genral Manager
PART IIIs  OPAZONS
2.0 Operation. Department Director
2.1 Promotion Division
2.2 Evaluation Division
2.3 Supervision Division
PART IV: STRATEGIC PLANNING
3.0 Strategic Planning Department Director
3.1 F-inancial Cooperation Division
3.2 Human Resources Division
3.3 Information Systems Division
3.4 Plannint Division
3.4.1  Health
3.4.2 Education
3.4.3 Infrastructure
3.4.4 Production
3.4.5  Community Development
PART Vs SUPOSING UNITS
4.1 Administration and Finance Division
4.2 Public Relations Division
4.3 Legal Division
4.4 Internal Auditing Division
4.5 General Services Unit
PART VI: ARNEXES
1.   COUNTRY SOCIAL INDICATORS
2.   8IP DIAMT DECREE
3*   POVEBTY NAP
3.1 GRAMIC NAP
3.2 TERORETICAL FRAMEWORK
3.3 TARGETING
3.4 LIST OF TARGETS BY DEPARThENT
3.5 LIST OF TARGETS BY MUNICIPALITY
3.6 INVESTMENT PLAN
4.   PROJECT MENU
S.   DESCRIPTIVE CA      F SUBPROGRAMS
6.   PROJECT CYCLE



Pogt 2 of 2
7.   MODEL 01 rlTER-INSTITUTIOL AGRRMTS
8.   MODEL Of INTER-INSTITUTIOAL FAZ
9.   FORMS
9.1 BASIC COUTY INFoRmATiON
9.2 REGISTRATION AND EjVALuATION OF N¢Os
9.3   PTION POR INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
9.4 APPLICATION FOR SOCIAL PROJECTS
9.5 APPLICTION PR PRODUCTIVE PROJECTS
9.6 APPLICATION FOR INSTITUTIONAL SRENINGlG PROJECTS
9.7 EVALULTION OF EATI INFRASTRuCTuRE PRoJECTs
9.8 EVALUATION oF EDUCATION NFSWTRUCTuRE PROJECTS
9.9 EVALUTON OF SOCIAL PROJECTS
9.10 SUPRVSION FORMATS
10.  CERTIFICATIONS
11.  SAMPL CONTRACTS AMONG 8IF, MECUTOR, SPONSORING AGENCY
12.         ElC RLES8
13. *AUDITING R8U



Anna& 
Page I of 4
SOIA IllV13S1T Fl1ND PROJRCT
MENU OF SUIPROJECTS
For each type of subproject, the draft Operations Manual includes a
separate sction that dctsribes the type of subproject and identifies
objectives. The section also outlines subproject specific procedural rules
governing: (a) eligibility requirements for submitting proposalst (b)
geographical restrictions, if any, on the location of the subproject; (c) what
sub-component. the SI! is willing to finance; (d) what sub-components the SIF
is not willing to finance; (e) the required documentation; (f) eligible
zacutiug agencies; (g) eligible supervisors of the subproject; (h) the
maximum length of tim  the subproject can receive financing from the SIPt and
(i) the conditions the sponsoring agency must meet to ensure sustainability of
the subproject.
The types of subprojects currently on the menu are described below. The
final composition of the enu will be reviewed to ensure that it is
appropriate to achieve SIT objectives prior to the Bank's acceptance of the
SI,'s Operational Manual.
Program        Sub-Progr"                            Type of Project
Social      01. 8aslc He th Care  01. Equipment for health centews
ssistance                        02. Eiuplment for heatth posts
03. Equipment for emicipal hestth centers
04. Equipment for c.munmity clinics
05. Provision of essental medicine for heaith posts
06. Provision of essential medicine for health centers
07. Initial prevision of medicine for cammaiities pharnacfes
08. Equipment for dental care centers
09. Disease control cawpaigns
10. Support to the use of traditional medicine
11. Provision of teoporary paremedic personnel
02. Feeding          01. Promision of nutritional sqppleaents to elementary s8coots and
other child health centers
02. Nutrition education for schools
03. Nutrition equipment for health centers
03. Nutritfon        01. Technclal assistance to lrprove nutrition content of household
prodection
02. Nutrition educat'cn for families
03. Small famly orchards
04. Educational farm and support for aquaculture
05. Orchard schools
06. Fish farms
04. Pre-school       01. Provfsion of furniture, tables, chairs, desks and blackboards
Edacation
Kind0rgarten    02. Provision of basic textbooks and other materials used in pra-
03. Temporary provision of teachers



Page 2 of 4
Praor             ch-Progrm                                   Type of Project
05.   lemntary          01. Provision of furniture, desks nd bltckboards
Udwcation          02. Provision of basic school mterials (packages)
03. Provisian of Libraries
04. Temporary provision of teachers
06. tnort t Educstion 01. Oevetopment of training materials
02. Job Training
03. Initial provisfon of tools
04. Training fn business and use of credits
05. Training of community edcator
06. Literacy
07. Preservation and prootion of the toat culture
08. Teqporary provision of instructors
Social Infra- Ot. Health              01. Rehabilitation and W2grading of health centers, health posts,
structure                                  .nmicipal clinies and walk-in ctinics
02. Construction of health centers
03. Construction of health posts
04. Construction of wAnciptl clinics
XS. Comu.aity training in the use snd  sintenence of health
~~~~~~~faciltites
02. Feedin   and        01. Construction of children's dining rooms, pantries nd kitchens
Nutrit on          02. Comamunity training in the use and mfintenance of children's
dinin rooms
03. Sanitation          01. Construction of Latrines
02. Rehabilitation of septic tanks
03. Construction of septic tanks
04. Rehabilitation and enlargemnt of drainage and sewerage
facilities
OS. Construction of drainage and sewerage faciltites
06. Construction of solid waste disposal & treatment systems
07. Rehabilitation and entargemnt of drinking water systems
08. Construction of potable water systems
09. Construction of wells
10. Rehabilitation of pLhlic ltaundry faclities
11. Construction of publie laundry faciitites
12. Cowmmity training concerning the use awd mintenane of
sanitation installatfons
04. aduecton            01. Rehabilitation nd upgradfno of pre-school facilfttes
02. Construction of preschool facflities
03. Rehabilitation and upgrading of etementary schools
04. Construction of elementary schools
05. wevelopment of trainfng materials
06. Set upi teporary prenises to be used in training courses



Pa8e 3 of 4
Pgrao            S4-Prgrae                                    Typ of Project
0?. Rehabilitation nd enlargement of couity recreation & sports
factilties
08. Construction of commnmty recreation nd sport facilities
09. Comunity training in use and *eintenanc of
_ecreatioiVgynastic areas
Icntmic       01. Local roads         01. Construction and repar of sideralks
Intre-                                02. Rehabilitation of aeccss roads
03. Maintenance of access roads
04. Construction of access roads
02.  lridges            01. Rehabilitation and construction of pedestrian bridges
02. Rehabilitation of bridges servin atcoss roads
03. Maintenno of bridgss servino acce   roads
04. Construction of bridges servin access roads
03. Drainage            01. Rehabilitatton and extension
rurtatlr   for     02. Maintenance
03. Construction
04. faintnennce         01. Organization & Trafning comfttees for bridges and roads
including
training, of
prfmery roads
05. Protection of the  01. Forestry
Environrent        02. Reforestry
03. Nicro-basins faciftites
04. Rain collection facilities
DS. Construction of smtl dams of multiple uses
06. S"stom for          01. RehabiLitation
mining frrigation
Wnd we(ls          02. Extension
03. Constructfon
07. Recollection and   01. Rehabilitation & expansion of collection & storage facilities
storage
(agriculture)      02. Construction of storag  facilitfes
OS. Ctnters for         01. Rehabilitation of slauwhterhouses
PAM" Fiat
cedrelel           02. Construction of slaughterhouses
03. Rehabilitation of trade eentors
04. Construction of trade eenters
09. Prooessing centers 01. Rehabilitation
(areg-indestry)    02. Expans1in
03. Construction
10. Mfstorfc momments 01. Protection and conservation of historfe mnoments
Prodctfive    01. Agrieultural         01. Permenont cultivation
Sector             Exports
Development       02. Species development
03. Vegetables cultivation
04. Medicinal ptant cultivation
05. ornamental plant and ftloers cultfvation



PaSe 4 of 4
Prop7-           SubtProO ct                                         l
02. Loetl ericuIturo  01. Fruit cultivation
development        02. Species cultivation
03. Vegetables cuLtivatfon
04. Basic grafn cultivation
05. Nedicinel ptant cultivation
06. Plant wad ftowr cultivation
03. Livestock           01. Aviaries
02. Growing minor species
03. Growing major species
04. Fisherfes
04. Nanufacturing       01. Niero-entefprises
02. Smlt business
03. Ccopertives
05. Bus1ness *nd        01. Iicro-enterprises
services           02. Small busfn
= = === = = _ 0s. ~~cooperatilves



Page 1 of S
SOCIAL IIIV1SThINIT Fql3DPRJC
GROGEIAPRIC TARUM=l CURIT AND Plgn 
1.   The Guatemal  Social Investment Fund would use popultion diltribution
and a poverty map to set quantitative funding lidIt. for municipallties. The
w ource would be assigned in two phases. First, they would be  ssigned on
the basi of population. Then, a corrective factor taking into account the
munielp.lity's value of a poverty index would be applied. The poverty map 1o
based on a municipality-level poverty index developed by INK. The poverty
tad.x is constructed from data on the following six Indicators aggregated
using the given weights:
Indicator                          Weight
(a)   Crowding                       52
(b)  Housing Condition              10l
(c)  Basic Sanltation               251
Cd)  Availability of Potable Water  301
(e)  Access to Basic Education      102
(f)  Basic Needs                    201
2.    The indicators are defined a  follows:
(a)  Crovd4i= is defined as the total number of rooms in the house
divided by the total number of occupantst
(b)   eCuvim Condit   evaluates the quality of the physical structure
of the housing units based on the types of construction material
used to build it;
Cc) Basic Sanitation is determined by access to waste disposal
facilities for both excrement and waste-water;
(d) AvaLlability of Potable Water evaluates the quantity and quality
of water available to a household. The census variable used Is
that which determines the number of households with access to a
public source of water, a well, a rivor, a lake or springt
1e)  Access to Basic Education use census variables on the age and
enrollment of school-aged childrent and
If) Basic Needs identifies those families without the means to achieve
the minimum levels of consumption of goods and services.
3.   The poverty index for a particular municipality is normalized by
subtracting the miuium value and dividing by the range. The SIN would
establish five priority groupings according to each municipalty', poverty
index value. The cut-off points for the classifications are provided belows
game          Classification
Over 50 points    severe Poverty
40 < points a 50 Excessive Poverty
30 < points S 40 Deficient
20 < points a 30 Regular Poverty
Under 20 points  Low Poverty



Pago 2 of 8
*            I No. of      No. of
Cstegory Pc jrty      Total      Depart-   Ehunic-    No. of       go. of
...    Index   Population    mnts    pllties   Villge 808         lets
A    | 60-100 1 1,377,991 |   10 t         62   _    369   I  2,036
[ B   4S-S9.41  1,983 ,S10 1    20    1 90    |   805   1  2,462
D    [20-29.9   1,413,482       16         49         319        929
a      0-19.9   2,048,604       3          16         124        281
TOTALS        9,731,961       69        330       2,369       8,658
4.   Using the poverty index and popultion indicators, the 8IP would
allocate mors funde per capita to the poorer municipalities using the
following mathematical formula: the percentage of funds received by any
individual municipality within a department would be calculated by multiplying
the department's population by its poverty index and dividing the result by
the weighted sm of all the department's populations, weighted by ths
respective department's poverty index. A sinilar formula would be used to
allocate funds to municipalities within a department. This formula has been
reviewed sad is acceptablo to the Dank.
5.   Map I=D No. 24168 Illustrates the classification of mnicipalities by
department and according to priority groupings A-H (highest-to-lowest). Bach
municipality is represented on the map by a number which corresponds to the
detailed list which follos.



41so  SofS
Ieb fb mI too                                      I at7
Wau, W&V   Uia."pa  bromi em             aatuls  gmety  me
Uemu 4apa        I Vmdawat                mu' n                        %               W U
;;;dlt As_   la3, 8|s9_                Pna   a  A=
*_1tm~p          iiU-                    63.9      6F *1                            .
ub%,Mu  *:   ime                                  a . loom
au go'       .  U so f * &n                             6617'
Aa s* wU         a .             . am46,a21.
abl9w            I CN s5nUtlSbl ix 17 7                  Rows
Stuvvap8         79U21               *               , 
U"~~~ so*  cr'    "tw
musmu            2 S c  au    ,                         19,136
Ww on    I         t d3.26    a                          1,647
"tVW"          *  so KM   a"                     41    Z,U
wSap             I  bs ftia     ,m1
*X lw      *    , &M,           .A  tS    120
la vm3 1 ad".                                   a3 .a'r:
"VA. a a         Ib so    V              3a6  U4   4a '  C
Mb ~~rapu    4 lactIc                4649   12    213   6111    .3   6.
k3a9ur3      U95ulhri                114     Of    ZIt=
O"tow            4 CaksU                 746      26   V6,49
CWUsI 13i s Ur"=    3in                   A.6    45    U1,"$                         A
Usia UsrW        S grads                 57.1 t4    6   12C
jaU,ra          ISaWast                 5546    3     36,32                        3
a lim rI        ,3                      T1o UmI*
hIal _49         III 2 I                  66    17 9I iU  m  ns.
.IUP             9.ti                    41.    13      1                         .3.. AJ
QWu  p           14                      ax 1.     6     1,965 *
CbUIbi          136a Usr *bw             43.16........ 152    165
I b sha    'm                     is  153.    5t,
Wuu1~~~up    4 suplw                 4is2    6    27,52 
*_bt~           15 Zarq                 36.1    116   II,W                          C
7 Fatu                  3.9     37    36,14                        C
CMuItUhiP        31. SerUm Ubbbu"36.2    233   24,9
CloinIaup       1t 1npa                 31.931 23    14,73                          C
WApes            2 Sim a63m  L W         31.5    214    1,11 
I  wpmbb               114731 V        26,36. 
a  lbmun         2 WsotanE               264     26      6113367          -3L4



b~~~~~~gi  . Ig  -                                        am  c 
w                         as   n   u's                            as a    d
I                         t?l1    tl  tnn  -1  t     n; It
I                         awn    *u       w                u hu n:             i u_
I                         am       t   c 15               'IIM   uas Tn
U WA Wu  twtnlt aft _                     Ws                     mm I
*                      .81    Ut         Ut?                 IP d                 _11s1up
~~~~~~~aft    la                   bl                     witi n
3                         m'a   l     *Ws         t1q                9
3                                *U    31?               Itl tf3  1               111 3113
U                         £383     £3n      tt   *      5133111 .At  U3 t 
U                         138£w    in    3011          -gm  P         1W t
* X                  ss$~~~~tw    a   wttwaU mn
.1                  33819~~~w  aIt   301       mWd*bpM fW3 as !IVUt
3    *1181? *3    IVU                                      WUin'U3,w w11   *      ? 3tW
*                                  man   =   Wu               gs ni
*                  11183t~~WS  at    Do1n   IdUh.3    mm513 at             "fgm
£                        35811.  ILl   30? u1ug                                  1     . WK  WAa   1
*                .       .83      ?L    3061             *tpgu  m  we  1        *maims
X                 ~~~~~Wu   in  gm    it. nW t C                              nM
6                .       96381?   991a  Ira                    WfuM" t           it
2                        £3831    33    13011au,ft  l  W             n           .11     '
tt~ ~ ~ ~~~w                gmi 2£a                    lin      0t  m  Zs  m
3                                  gi    arn                    d" ag 
2                         3O12      1    W31                    'It':L
3                           in     Wu                     gms83r iLl 
2            *              l"n           Wutfn           
Itt.?    ZWoff   waq                                                   ' '.t*
3                          m~~~~~~~~9    we            emTtt           .31kM 13
3                         in .            Vn                         L          U n  I 
2               . #t               U      am                          t    t
*                          Wit h    n  *  w
3          .             tWkt      E _                     I snuft in. t    t
3                         Nei      onU   W it               am"'as1               Uidil
2~~~~~ ?1183*    91                  It      l       331111         , , 3 313
I   in  SSS t't   nt"t  grtSt we    trig                         so  T              mm a
£                         013811   It?    3£*          13.33'lat  F3W'1 "         NW  L3
5~~~~~W                   '"       wit                   an    am  
J~~~~~~ SD   Ylf AM                                     MA" I               WSW3
*                     .  £1~L*   3fa    301*                 "N          . I         dN   t
a it Wa  w      zru                 sg noam
5 I                                 l .  III H  n1111              Jtt31     .   t 3
6                        .h181  SI    CVW'           t       SA  als t            am a
J                     6113    31    3011                 *I?  1 C        *AIS  1133mm
atit*       .108 IS315 UUwds                       .
aWZUXVAip £q -OPuz £AUMe
s ;o                              N    *                        _s   



AM&5
Page 5 of 8
PvsyZadw by usaAmm
*192
P tin_.             21lt     *xtuop   73.64                  32     16,99                              A
UktuuP                Su ku_rli 6I.91                       37     U,43                               A
aminumip            UIt L  WvtId                  63.11      31     23,4                               A
_o  w   m        s     1 C O I   . g A t          " on        n      ag,                               A
IbatUSP            Cu dU  bit                63.12      39     16,377                             A
b  is teg'3. d 2htl          L.IT       4'      *,2U                              A
.       Wu                     4.43      44     5,1 
_u.S  21  mtain                                   44         5       35 
_~bdUUp             13as I  ipul  ACdo             3.3  *    1      24,16 
3 t lmtuult.                n2ow              16,64                              a
twS   Satos Cucm"i 61.46                6      19W7                               A
* 3l_|Uqi             3215*31*119.1                            43     15,Is3m3 .73  a  '
1 Co_ g                      53.16      64     157 ,1
24_S  k2        b            v ."               Is 3,2 *
_~uq                 7 Jawltu.                    536        07     3,13                               3
_  2 tlCMm W.9                         9    *3,15                                3
khstminp       9 Izhtaguwa                  5143      1a      24,33 
_ _      ~     ~~~~~ tspa                   31.12      M      I#$3                               9
4 Cdl.                      51.*9     in      44U,1                              I
_.bmtSmgs           31 sotA Raa                   V7        136     1M                                 I
'- _intumup         & on hirE Mt                 4.3       147    19,3                                a
_temtuuup           11a  Ramada                   4213      16a    23,71                               C
_d.tSup              I X_tum  S                   32.5    244       6I,M   343,        7.M 34.1        C
lull                 2 nLlatf                     49.99     U*     43,1                                B
laid                  SEibt La                    .3         3 3S  m   am                              3
bail                 4 1.al                       33.14     212     ",10                               c
'Saul          ~~~I Ptwb larita             24.9      296    62s4  3s6wt    3.46  3s.x           1
.lap.               51. in   arts Mutat         644.       s9       ,                                A
Jalapa              2 lit Feb'2 FIl              43.6      n      34A5
au"                  3      Lou is)"iW  U         56.3        7      594"
huEas                I  &Pa                       540        34  *4, 
Utapa                7 ?  amnul                   51.33     13      2,371
JuapaUis                                          433        2      23,12                              3  
'-1-. 48.                                                   IN      X *^1" gWs
*bps                 4 so huA m)  lw'.            43.24     I 163    4,493   1Lo36     2 312  51       CA
p.                  U tow                         706        34     19,HI2                             A
p                   is 13C.pa                     H9i        35     Ua 4
Mlap                u  n1m hum tw                  1.6       59    1,51                               A
Mlaa    aptim                57.5       n       7,1                               I
Ulm                 1  Ua                         57        11            
hutlapa             17 linda                      51.6      113    11,279 A
1lapa                931 UsIst.                   49.37     113 ",43£ a
MIaps           6~~~ a  flat"uu             47.3       I3I    13,149
Ime.                 I apa                        46.21     14U      9,9
4     R _a                  43.5A     1m      3,2              .                 C
Mips      *       4Aualc                      39.6      W3      13,351 
istlaps              SIam                        39.5       in      7,3                                C
4*1.0b               3 oau  ertai      t          371.2 .   M        1,49                              C
12a l           -            36.75     211     U3US                               C
Mlapa            7 Atu      a   U,35.                    M      17,4c
MIme.                211 Praymu                   15.37      231n3,47932,214 U   3    3.71    47.1    C
lntutp              21 3.5                        565        3      34,616 U
attsp            .W1  SN s                      53.23      39      2,3                               I
staaltup             I souls1 SIpaml              51.83     13o      4,522                             8
lobslt_o            131 Fnrauisw  a 0             3.36      111      9,115.                          I I
utut=               16s I                          49.7     1       11,473 
&OWU3I              13 maup                       M.6       1       11,2                               1
bsbut.U6s l                  ta Imtqpiu          43.3      131  b   ,434                              a



Paso 6 of 8
but.mlkiuuu         22 Flu,. Cutsm km 4go        *.3  e           259
SEWalkinMp           2 ulde                      39.5     1       17,31.                            C
bimmttuugs           I Calj                      39.32    191     9,1u                              C
ksbmlt.mp           24 P11m2. 3 LaJ Iltus        3n              11,4W                              c
Iutaultuaqs          3 "_ia3 e 3* U2                               no,w                             C
~~~~~~ bho_j                               as        m      nsm * 
3iat _m                 3utm4 *3. 12    239    39,171.                                              e
WIhal -BP         23 cbalpup                   31.2      214    72,31                              C
eambaltmnqs         17 Clmbs                     I1.2     24      41,39                           .c
Mib5tUUp             1 bhm=Plk                   nillk.p  3.  26  13,74                       .     C
_ottm                    a  O_ id                MU       ZI     SNS.C
t      _mp          19 L                    .     .11     M       14,21                             C
SEtultug       23X Ia kpq                  231       271     7,73                  *  
k.Wsltmup            I   t obimp               2L9  2a1  1a5im
kid attp            14cow123                              211    2,3                                8
0_tultmmgs           5 lEWIs                     26.I     237    1,19t6 0
kutusltauu           4 gm Carla lA              24.75    213    291,19  *
O.tlt_6 Cabtd2                                            31t  19,13  5,6           5.1   35.21 o
Mi.                 171. DarWin huWui~a gm  I.I            12     6N,.                              A
Idia                a so ha.IU c9ow4                       is    1t334                              A.
Idd.                1s aft   Wuk                 77.91     19    49,I1                              A.
*    ChEn1                    75*       24     1,339 
*i                  193.      .lhhps.            75 .     a       lo2  3                            I
Mi.                  s n   p   "Mtn11.           74.       a7     1,11
3kito        J.l *7.9   ,  21                 3'9 
-1I is    k2.9I"                                           a      AMn ,
Id*                 w                       L2        a      30,U 
11110               14 to hi. IuhM               19.7      a1    3,419                              A
Mi.                  Iint  at" lutmm              7.      41    16211 .
1I1                  9 1s fthlMURN              14.    U a2,35                                      8
Io              *   sam                         63 .n         *  ,318 
MId                1n am                         57.       7     24,139 
.b                   4                           3.1       11    23,1t
MI.d                 2 Clii.                    5K."       34    23,31
Mi.                  3 Ch4su.                   ax4.      142    11lm1 
Odd*                 I goCtm  M1id68 1.                    M      4,264                             C
_id                  Ibbt_li                              M    4IN *     BC
Mi.b                 6 Ohdimluup                 a3m 33          1169   9,6         6.9   51.6      C
Ihlk.                 amuIN.Cla                  H9S      124      2,12 *   C
btw3.         lm     "8.hirmVlak                4.22      145    19,3                               3
EhataMi               Sobaa Cm211111o    M1                      27,3                               C
*  Eata                 4 In 11t. aputtla           4a3      i        7,1                              C
3..1.1               2Soleh.ia                  39.1      M      2o3                                c
Ma      .            7 Clps.low                  El,"    241    2,319                               C
kWh)                 5 so FIp                    27*      VI    15,34  241,7        2.L      33.12    3
Isc_pq..            UlWUlWU de uiu               7.92       3    U,.                                A
_a m                 5 SE   Map  mn          .  41.13      Al      ,7m                              a
_UmtM               1 lhbup                                % 412,7                                  3
_suWp.q.u            7 s krtlmi llow Alto    49.65    119         3,161 
_acatupuq.,a         4IuP p                      49.59     2    .216415      .
Sauti_up.           13 E h bt  puA   CaUlstes  45.16      US9     6,2                               3
_sntupuquu          16 to Catlvi  b in           41u5     1in     2,187                             C
_uintepuqm          13 in Ku hna                 25.29    M       6,23                              C
_uusWpqu             3  ast.                     M6       237     3,21                              C
_amqma               8IgLsc1nnbpt.               2c       2       13,477                            c
ncwm a                . v     3L.4    29    1,3                                 c



Paso 7 of 8
iovwuty Uinm by minUmU
_mteg2            4 ImItap 3MatapPu          3314    ISi      14,3C
M ftmlm  slow Mt..          Y.    23         i,322 
_*mpqu             I Wu   Laus 19 #Atu        24.43    31     $5,95
_ n                 2 SuUp 1.                           SU     22,14                            E
Wab""" _                  .    ul              3.4 .  3         13    1,        1.    3.11 
to  IN5n*4.1 IUtl US                           5.UVA"  A, "$9
so i  m            22FaiaptA                   am       it     131 ,19 
on 14r pi          a i                        SIX       ut    u,ln
in .  PRm           I TOMus                   51        N13    34,391 
1.3Mm         ISUh last"                  4221    12      42,349                          IC
8.3Mm               iTsu.                     42.3? 3I5m,t t967                       .
to arm             2Iafs39.3   1to                             19,144
1.3mn              a  U                       39_V     no      24M ,3
so &               a GM                                                                         cJ1 '' 
so  UW=            uCstaa                     3L1    214    24,124
So Ng me            4  niclmillo              36.4    22       4,394
$a3 .              141 a11.3.1w               33       241    34,414
sm  m               I                . a      32       24      12,4U1                           C
to  W         1     fas a aut         _A                w      ut
au A"                  31      27      21,4                             C
so 3Mmu so                                     19*  w    33,1
1s 2W1aJJana mp                               am   m   14,1                                     1
in  a, no          a asnow         E          25.      22      1,36                             5
so M        2      J so cra    eu            U,9       M        i
on                 2 Ubd*m                    24    M7   17t 
IN llbpnpinasal@5i                            26U         Ug  5W 
so3Mm INtl                                    22.      331     15,91            S.S nS    E
o                           o                                  U 11.M   J2.5  1  31,. 3
1.3M               29.Im                      2,.      3        1,43
Sd hu         * IhWso    '               UJI   M                   
in  Mm2 so 9*. Icatup"u                        M.9     313    55,71n
to on m            ISosUe                      13*     315     2362   3,"       7.421  35.5 
aft kw             161ta3MIau lbs"            44.       47     now4                             I
km               I in k 71Jm.mn             46.3      43     low
lob ba  u buwa*                   ~~~49X.1   12    14,11
Sub hu          A &dw1                      44      141     1,113
lou NM             4 atms                              la 
Sob bu        14CuI lla                 44.3    143      A713                             3
Iatse Im             chIpuu1U                 41.4      1      369,44                           C
Sata                 fm   amilvan             4L3.3    177     1493                             C
Sinta5.a  1331*IohiiVlSM  4313   .133    21,1 t
smu k"w_ *" Tao                 *j   Mekf 
1.tahu        9.uIsn                     3.3      19      e5
I"  Om             21r                        375    M32       3,31                             C
Ah                 14 _m      'hu              4.1     U       2,                               c
lateSma             35tms3Mb     b            3L.4    2i9      13,0                             C
ha                12 ute Cm armuc            27.34   . 33     11,197  2,519    Los  42.4 
311.1*             I4ItCLLSU                  641        9      2,933 
ugh                       sS1gld * *a Ls a      I      _ AP"                                    a.
661.1              11 SusI hugr5~                               1,9A a" 
odd                11 Wu na 2slnr A.U
d.U                1  aiap UUl                74*       2      33,4                          , -
.31           _ .....1Cii1dI S               7.34A    42     2,U                             A
Inl iat1C araLAPU         4735      43      5,8
6.1isi  LaUMuolii                             13.32    4U       9,2s2                           3
lsal               131.mg lolll         T d 4           92   U9,3
661n14             51.*                        522    us       I3,2-
kw                 a IImIU L**                44.3    14.       4,4                             5



*   s9   1r1 9t  SRm      U'lWt .  t1&   Wu                                        t
a                        su'n    sw    wcz           *       3.1? mg    Wu
a                        g39d9 '3          '3                on U- I              wo
2                        £33      Ux    W1                     ti?
£3't   IC~   wit                     -lut               own~
-3                       """iw    m      &r                  .III                 tiWe
2                     * Two       in      lu?       zymu1uge
2                        WIT   In    wnt                     W V                  w
I                        WSL      *T      UIt                   1P1I timn
*   fil  1W?   .*t'86    ZSS    31   tU                    WUhm         1     UUU
2                        l13t    1       WtZK        13 a U3U  us t       .       ?UwII
3       .WL HkI    wit                                     01 no I             _°3
3S3w                             U      31*tr     '11"395   Iu,UaT1a
3                        Ogg      "      wt               i . 31 a INE       I8113POI1
4                         IC'3    UT    Wit            inn 3      1* we1 
I                        LL46     Z       Wu       non 3 Wm gm I              U31'oL
I   nona  un    93U   tmn         mK    wt:    wpNq SHISM4 as z              ubU"_W
I            *              . 2t'*>     s n  Wu                     I 
a                        mdt   m   wui    atgm asw
2                        two  In£        wI?        a in iim  s1m31 ahi,1
3                        ZWD1    &U    us?          318611i UI Iwo  I we31 a
3                        Igg'1t   Du    Kea             MN 011W  t3             111 Pm
3                       .twt    33    Wu              tinUd       t 11363
3                        3)I84    "I    UV£                   151111 *1      200ftw
.3                       Lift    tL'S1    am              a         It   .       a    a
3                        Il' It   B6     WIt                 '0313             .'I
3 *                        *S'S   K?      3               11OSt 31 C         UVU
*                        matt   flY    witI:t                 530d G         *U 3nSeftig
I                .        Mott    UT   .I1                           aqa
I                        WS't    at    W                        t   a         .
I                        Kilt   'I       Wu                3MSt 31 as        U
I                  li~~~~~~at'  tI    WTIt           " 31531Auid91
o    W       ? W                  tS     WT *3      PT3  Ws a1                     IPat
*                        m'6    Kta    6913                 ltq'U     a             1PPS
X~~~~~~~~~~ wit   tG " SP  "M t                                          Itt
2                        meaT   Ui       son     _11     po we I                  "at"
2                                 Ii?    Ws        U11SA VT* 1131 t               1PTO1
2                         39't   3tS    we                      1t1 1  9T1 
2                  ?ALT?~~~~WI  UT   wit   UP111  1J11  11                  9h
ULITZ   it    tetv    p  tam      dzs I qapz£-g
1_ QCS B  <A
a P° 8 09 a



MUMMLA                         Page I of 19
SOCIAL INVESTfENT FMND PROJECT
DRAFT DECRKE CREATING SIP
DCRu NU __ _
TUE CONGRESS OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUATXEALA
CONSIDERING:
That it is the duty of the State to guide the national economy to gain
full use of natural resources and human potential, to increase wealth and to
tTy to achieve full emloyment and the just distribution of the national
income.
CONSIDERING:
That to achieve such ends it is essential to create the adequate entity
and establish special mechanian. to channel part of the resources that the
State allocates to investment in development projects and to secure the
resources contributed by other institutions and entities that ohare their
concern in bringing development to communities suffering poverty and extreme
poverty in Guatemala.
TEER
In exercise of the duties conferred upon it by paragraph a) of Article
171 of the Constitution of the Republic of Guatemala,
DECRIES:
the following s
SOCIAL IESTHT        DDCREE
TITLE I
SINGLE CHAPTER
GERL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1. Creation. The SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND (SIP) is hereby
created as a decentralized, autonomous State ontity, with legal status and its
own property, for a period of Eight (8) years.
It sball be domiciled in the Department of Guatemala; its main
headquarters shall be in Guatemala City and it can establish local
headquarters in any place within the national territory. The main
headquarters can be relocated to any place through resolution of the Board of
Directors.
ARTICLE 2. Objective. Through the Socisl Investment Fund, the State
shall invest in activities t  t tmprove the living standards and socio-
economic conditions in those sectors suffering from poverty and extreme
poverty, especially in the rural areas* Toward this goal, it shall carry out



Page 2 of 19
the operations nvisaged in this Decrees, its Regultions and other norms
isued by the Board of Directors.
ARTICLE 3. Scope of the Activity. To comply with its objective, the
Socil Investment Pund shall invest in the development of programs and
project., including pre-investment, in the areas indicated below, which shall
be executed by the beneficiary groups or by the executing agencies designated
by them:
(a) Hbealth and nutrition to reduce the mortality and concurrent
morbidity to infant malnutrition indicators.
(b)   Education, especially at the primary level.
(c)   Training oriented toward productive work.
(d)   Productive projects that strengthen the local economy.
(e) Infrastructure for the improvement of the quality of life of the
target population of the Social Investment Fund.
(f)   Other areas of social development and assistance in accordance
with the objectives of the present Decree as determined by its
Board of Directors.
(g) Environmental protection and promotion activities.
All the actions described in the present Article shall be carried out
for the benefit of the population referred to in Article 2 of the present
Decree.
ARTICLE 4. Special Projects. The Social Investment Fund shall
establish in its regulations the mechanisms to carry out investments in
development projects proposed by the Executive Branch, which shall be financed
with the resources contributed by the State for this purpose.
ARTICLE 5. Discretionary Powers. The Social Investment Fund shall
carry out its duties in accordance with the provisions of the present Decree,
it Regulations, it. Operational Manual and other norms issued by the Board of
Directors. It shall have discretionary powers with respect tot
1.    Its internal organization, in everything not specifically
regulated in the present Decree.
2.   The execution of investment operations and other related actions
comprised within its objectives.
3.   The determination of eligible projects to participate in Social
Investment Fund programs on the basis of its Operational Manual
end other norms issued by the Board for this purpose.
ARTICLE 6. Status of the Socil Investment Fund. The Social Investment
Fund shall be governed by the present Decree, its Regulations, the Operational
Manual and other nomss dictated by the Board of Directors. The situations not
foreseen in said instrument shall be resolved in accordance with the
provisions of the Judicial Body Decree, taking into account the objectives and
characteristics of the Institutions.



Anex-A
Page 3 of 19
FnAIAL OMATIlOtS Of THE SOCIfAL I11511T FUND
CIAPTER I
FINANCIARSOURCES OF TIM SOCIAL IMESTIN        N
ARTICIZ 7.  Nature ad  Origin of Resources.  All the resources of the
So8ia Inestment Fund constitute private resources to be exclusively used in
the accompliebmnt of its objectives. To finance its operations, the Fund
sball have its own budget which shall include the following resourcess
(a) The State's ainimum initial contribution of GUA$40 million.
(b) The funds annually aasigned to it in the State's Income and
Ezpenae Budget, including the necessary funds to cover the amount
of counterpart funds from loans and contributions granted to it.
(c)   The funds originating from loans granted by national cr foreign
organizations and those originating from International Cooperation
sources, assigned or negotiated for the Social Investment Fund.
(d)   The resources originating from inheritances, legacies and gifts
made on its behalf by international agencies, governments of other
countries and national or foreign entities or persons. Wherever
the inetitutive has not indicated the specific objective or it is
impossible to implement it, it shall be resolved by the Board of
Directors of the Social Investment Fund.
(e)  Recovery of the contributions, investments and loans made by the
Social Investment Fund whenever necessary.
CHAPTER. II
UTILIZAION OF RESOURCES
ARTiCLE 8  Utilization of Financial Resoure"s  As an entity whose
objective lo to obtain resources with a view to carry out invostments
benefitting the population sectors indicated in Article 2, the Social
Investment Fund is empowered to carry out the operations descrlbed in the
present Chapter, especially in the following areas:
(a) Non-reimbursable investments for institutional strengthening.
(b) Regular non-reimbursable investments.
(c)  Investments In Governmental entities' projects.
(d) Reimbursable investments.
(-)   Temporary iawestments.
(f) Social promotion 4ivestments.
ARTICLE 9.   N-Reimbursabl Inestments for Institutional
8treagth.L4.ng. The Social Investment Fund can grant non-reimbursable
contributions to support organizational efforts of informal groups and for the



Aumnx 6
Page 4 of 19
Institutional atr      ning of already organized groups  These investments
can also be granted for training, project development and experimental works,
Including small-scale lput acquisition carried out by these groups in the
different activity areas indicated In Article 3.
RTICLE 10. Regular Mom-Raiabursable Investments. Regular non-
reimbursable nvtestmet include contributions in cash, goods or technical
assistance provided by tbo Social Investment Fund for project execution in the
social services and infrastructure areas.
A group may benefit from one or various non-reimbursable contributions
that shall be granted gradually in response to the needs of each project,
based on the criteria established by the Board of Directors.
ARTICLE 11. Responsibilities of the Beneficiary Group. The beneficiary
group of a regular non-reimbursable investment shall contribute either with
labor, goods or cash to execute the project approved by the Social Investment
Fund.
The Regulations and the Operational Manual shall govern regarding the
minimum requirements that shall be met for these investments to take place and
the financing amount that shall correspond to the Social Investment Fund, to
the beneficiary community and to other public and private entities related
with the project, as the case may be.
ARTICLE 12. Administration of the Resources Received. The executing
agency of a regular non-reimbursable investment is responsible for executing
the project In accordance with the agreement or contract entered into with the
Social Investment Fund.
ARTICLS 13* Bmefictaries of Rogular Ron-Reimbursable Investments   The
Social Invertment Fund can grant this type of resources to the followings
1.   Municipalitiess Through the signing of a co-financing agreement,
the Social Investment Fund can make regular non-reimbursable funds
to complement the regular and extra-budgetary resources of the
municipalities in order to co-finance social infrastructure and
public service projects that meet the requirements indicated in
the Regulations and in the Operational Manual.
2.   Other Entitles:  Through the signing of a Contract, the Social
Investment Fund can make regular non-reimbursable investments in
projects encompassed In the activity areas indicated by this
Decree, through contributions made to legal persons, groups and
commnities, including the Social Investment Fund Businesses
(SIlP), to which Chapter ll of Title IV of the present Decree
makes reference, that meet the requirements indicated in the
Regulations and in the Operational Manual.
ARTICLE 14. lawsetmmnt Projects in Governmental Entities. The Social
Invastment Fund can co-finance socio-economic development projects submitted
by Governmental Ministiles and other public sector entities if and when these
are within the framework of the policies and objectives of the Social
Investment Fund.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 19
Operational and maintenance costs of projects financed by the Social
Investment Fund in spocific sectorial Ministries and public inetitutions shall
be incorporated In the preparation of the budgets of such entities for the
following fiscal year.
ARTICLE 1S. Reinburs-ble IVestments. Are those allocated to grant.
financing for productiv, activities in the form of loans.
ARTICLI 16. Social Promotion Investments   These are non-reimbursable
resources allocated to promote development, training and community
organization, especially using the Government's installed capacity.
TITLE III
ORGARIZATION
CHAPTER I
ADM¢IISTRATIVB STRUCTURE
ARTICLE 17. Main Bdaies. The main bodies of the Social Investment
Fund, in ranking order, aret
(a)  Board of Directors
(b)  Executive President
(c) General Manager
(d)  Msnagin& Comittee
(e) Specialized Department.
(f)   Operational and Advisory Units.
CHAPTER It
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ARTICLE 18. Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is the highest
authority of the Social Investment Fund and therefore responsible for policy
definition of a general nature. The Board would be composed of five members
appointed by the President of the Republic. The board would review and
approves (i) general strategy; (ii) action plans; (iii) rules of operations;
and (iv) the anual budget. It would also authorize the SIP to contract
external and domestic funds   The Chairman of the Board would also be the
executive director of the SIP and have the title of Executive President. The
designated Zxecutive President is a well-respected and experienced
businesman. The four other members would be well-respected persons from the
public or private sector with experience in the sectors to be financed by SIP.
ARTICLE 19. Impedinents. The President of the Board of Directors of
the Soclal Investment Pund cannot be:
(a)  Under thLirty years of age.
(b)  The spouse and relative up to the fourth degree by blood or up to
the second degree by marriage of the President and the Vice
President of the Republic



Atnnex 6
Page 6 of 19
(c)  Whoever ha kinship up to the fourth degree by blood or second
degree by marriage with the other members of the Board of
Dirctors.
(d)  Contractor. by themselves or as partners of legal persons that are
responsible for works and services financed with resources from
the Socia Tnv.stment Fund and persons against whom there are
legal proceedings pending for such works and services.
(e)  Delinquent debtors of any lending institution.
(f)  Insolvent or bankrupt, while final decisions are pending; those
sentenced for crinInal or fraudulent bankruptcy.
(g)  Those sentenced for crimes implying dishonesty.
ARTICLE 20. Advinsers to the Board of Directors. By invitation from the
Board of Directors, representatives of national or foreign institutions
interested in the projects of the Social Investment Fund, and any person that
appears to speak on, clarify or expand concepts on any of the items included
in the agenda, can participate in the deliberations of the meeting as
advisers, with voice but not vote.
ARTICLE 21. Powers of the Board of Directors.  In accordance vith its
objectives, the Board of Directors shall have the following powers:
(a) Approve the work plans and programs and the institution's
financial programming.
(b) Approve and modify the promotion, investment, technical assistance
and training programs of the Social Investment Fund and
periodically review its progress and execution through the reports
submitted by the responsible entities of the same.
(c)  Determine and approve the necessary resources to carry out the
development programs of the Social Investment Fund.
(d)  Accept donations, technical and finascial assistance granted by
any institution or individual or legal person, national or
foreidg.
(e) Approve the creation of the Operational Units necessary to ensure
the Institution's efficiency and the accomplishment of its
objectives.
(f)  Approve the Regulations of the present Decree for transmittal to
the Executive Branch.
(a) Approvo the anualB income and expense budget of the Social
Investment Fund and its amendments, if any.
(h) Approve the appointment and removal of the General Manager, the
Imternol Auditor and the Legal Adviser.
(1)  Approv. the Annual Report of Activities and submit it to the
President and the Congress of the Republic for their information.



Ai-not 6
Pasg 7 of 19
(j) Authorize the establishment or closing of local offices of the
Social Investment fund in any place of rhe Republic.
(k)   Authorise one of the legal advisers to grant special mandates with
representation.
(1)   Issue the standards of the Personnel Administration Regulations of
the Social Investment Fund.
(a)   Perform other duties and exercise its powers in accordance with
the present Decree, its regulations and other applicable
provisions.
AXUCLE 22. Meetigs and Per Diem. The Board of Directors shall hold
regular and special meetings. The regular meetings shall take place at least
twice per month and the special meetings whenever they are called, and these
shall take place outside normal working hours.
Members of the Board of Directors as well as the Secretary shall receive
a per diem per meeting held which they attend. In any case, no person can
receive per dime for more than four meetings in a calendar anmth.
ARTICLE 23. Quormu and Decisions   The three members of the Board of
Directors shall constitute a quorum for every meeting; decisions shall be made
by majority of votes. If a member of the Board of Directors abstains from
voting, it shall be so indicated in the minutes of the meeting with the
corresponding explanation.
ARTICLK 24. Impartiality in the Deliberations of the Board of
Directors. Whenever any of those attending the Board of Directors meetings
should have a personal interest in the discussion or decision of an specific
subject, or any of his partners or blood relatives up to the fourth degree or
by marriage up to the second degree should have a business or personal
interest on the discussion or decision, in any case, he shall leave the
meting during the discussion of the subject, and this should be noted in the
corresponding mdnutes. In this case he shall be replaced by his alternate.
ARTICLE 25. Responsibility of the Members of the Board of Directors.
Members of the Board of Directors and the Advisers shall carry out their
duties with absolute discretionary independence and under their own
responsibility within the standards established by the applicable de¢rees and
regulations. They are jointly responsible for damages and costs brought by
tham to the Government, to the Social Investment Fund, and to third parties by
Acts or illegal omissions incurred in the exercise of their duties. Sowever,
the Directors that have recorded the reasons for their vote as well as the
advisers that have recorded their objections in the minutes of the session or
sessions, shall be exempt from responsibility.
Likewise, any person who reveals or discloses any confidential
information on subjects communicated to the Social Investment Fund or that
have been discussed In their meetings, shall be liable; as well as any person
who makes use of such information for personal advantage or to the detriment
of the institution or other parties.



'Annx 6
Page 8 of 19
This paragraph does not include information required by the authorities
in the exercise of their powers or in the normal course of confidential
information exchanged with donor or lending agencies of the Social Investment
Fund.
CHAPTER III
PRESIDENT
ARTICLE 26. Duties of the Executive Presidnt. The Executive President
of the Board of Directors shall be responsible before the Board for the
correct performance of the Institution, and shall have the following specific
functionss
(a)   Perform the legal representation of the Social Investment Fund,
jointly or separately with the General Manager; he can delegate
the legal representation for specific sets authorized by the Board
of Directors;
(b)   Establish and maintain links with national and international,
public and private entities, and carry out the corresponding
negotiations to obtain loans, contributions and technical
assistance for the efficient operation of the Social Investment
Fund and the implementation of its work programs;
(c)   Preside over the meetings of the Board of Directors.
(d)   Propose to the Board of Directors the draft Regulations of the
present Decree and approve the Operational Manual;
(e)   Execute the decisions made by the Board of Directors;
(f) Carry out preliminary negotiations for loans, contributions and
technical assistance with national entities and with governments
and international organizatiotns
(g) Sign the agreements, contracts and covenants within the scope of
his responsibilities;
(h)  Approve the awards and contracts within the scope of his
responsibilities in accordance with the Special Regime on
Procurement and Contracts of the Social Investment Fund;
(i)   Propose to the Board of Directors the creation of the necessary
Operational Units;
(j)  Appoint and remove employees of the Institution;
(k) Assume the duties of the General Manager whenever he is
temporarily absent;
(1)   Perform all other duties assigned by the Board of Directors.
CHAPTER IV
GEERAL MANAGR



Page 9 of 19
ARTICIE 27. Appointment and Duties of the General Nasger. A General
anager shall be In charge of the administrative activities of the Social
Investmet lrund.
ARTICLE 28. Requirements and I      t       of the   eeral maunger.
1.   Reauiregmenr. To be appointed to the position of General Manager,
the candidate shall be a person of recognzsed honesty, a
Guatemalan citizen, with experience In adminiatrative and
financial matters or development programs. These requirements
shall be substantiated at the time of the appointment.
2.    Imediments.  Those impedlments indicated for the position of
President of the Board of Directors also apply to the position of
General Manager.
ARTICLE 29. Powers of the General Manager. The powers of the General
Manager, as delegated by the President of the Board of Directors, shall be as
follow:
(a)   Perform the legal representation of the Social Investment rund
jointly or separately with the Executive President of the Board of
Directors. He can delegate legal representation for specific acts
as authorized by the Board;
(b)   Perform the administrative management of the units snd the
personnel of the Social Investment Fund and coordinate their
technical activities;
(c)  Approve or deny operations for which he has authority in
accordance with the limits indicated by the regulations of the
present Decree;
(d)   Approve awards and contracts for which he has authority in
accordance with the governing Special Regimn on Procurement and
Contracts of the present Decree;
(e)   Appoint and remove employees of the Social Investment lund in
accordance with Personnel Regulations except those whose
appointment correspond to the Executive Presidentt
(f)   Participate in the meetings of the Board of Directors as Secretary
with voice but not vote;
(g)   Prepare and submit to the consideration of the Executive President
the proposed annual income and expense budget of the Social
Investment Fund, and its amendments;
(h)   Be part of the Management Committeet
(i) Control and monitor the operations financed by the Social
Investment Fund and inform the Executive President and the Board
of Directors on matters wbere their action is required?
(j) All other duties assigned by the Executive President.



PAg 10 of 19
CRAIR v
OPZRATIONAL SODIES
ARTICIE 30. Operationl Stratogy. In order to avoid concentration of
duties on the top management bodies, the Social Investment Fund shall have
qualified staff that shall be resposible for Identification, advisory
services, preliminary evaluation, and decision-making pavers vithn the limits
of the scope of their activitieo assigned by the Board of Directors, end other
necessry operational duties for the initial phase and monitoring of the
projects.
The staff shall have support services at its disposal provided by tho
central administration of the Social Investment Fund and by temporary staff to
be contracted for specific projects.
ARTICLE 31. Managemet Cosmitteoe  It is the body responsible for
approving projects and their respective amendments.
Its composition and duties shall be established in the Regulations of
the present Decree.
ARTICLE 32. Specialized Departments. The Social Investment Fund shell
have Specialized Departmento and Offices as indicated under paragraph (1) of
Article 26 of the present Decree.
ARTICLE 33. Field Offices. The regions where Social Investmout Fund
programs are carried out shall be under the supervision of Field Offices,
whose number shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
ARTICLE 34. Support Divisions. To promote and execute its programs,
besides the Field Directorates provided for in the previous Article, the
Social Investmet Fund shall have th, necessary Support Divisions.
ARTICLE 35. Operational Divisions1 To carry out its objectives the
Social Investment Fund shall have the necessary Operational Divisions.
CUAPTER VI
ADVISORY AND CONSULTING UNITS
ARTICLE 36. Advisors. The Social Investment Fund shall have an
Internal Auditor and a Legal Advisor appointed by the Board of Directors, who
shall be persons of recognized honesty and professional reputation, with a
milnimum professional experience of five years Persons appointed to these
positions cannot be members of the Board of Directors of the Social Investment
Fund. Their responsibilities shall be established in the Regulations of the
present Decree.
ARTICLE 37. Consultants   The Social Investment Fund shall contract the
professional and technical consultants required for the execution of its work
programs.



Page 11 of 19
The consultants to which this Articll refors to can be contracted from
the public sector ismtltution and agencies or be Individual or legal persons
from the private sector.
CNAMII VII
PISORM        I^ PiRaI
ARICLE 38. Peroomel Smagement Regim. In accordance with Article
108 of the Politicl Constitution of the Republic, the Social Investment Pund
shall govern Its relations with its employees on the basis of the Personnel
and Salary Administration Regime issued by its Board of Directors. The Social
Intestment Fund staff shall not be governed by the Civil Service Decree.
CHAPTE VIIl
IUTER-INSTITUTIOU&L RELATIONS
ARTICLE 39. lustatutional Coordination. In accordance with Article 134
of the Political Constitution of the Republic, the Social Investment Fund
shall coordinate its policy with the Government's general policy and, in its
case, with the specific sectorial policy with respect to development plans
whose objective is the improvement of living standards and of social
condition. in rural areas.
ARTICLE 40. 6overcmatal Assistance. The Governmental agencies,
decentralized and autonomous institutions shall be required to provide their
assistance to the Social Investment Fund to better accomplish its objectives.
The Regulations shall indicate the collaboration mechanisms between the
agencies and institutiocs and the Social Investment Fund.
ARTICLS 41. Internatlonal Exchange and Cooperation. The Social
Investment Fund shall play the role of governmental representative before
similar iastitutions from other countries and before international
organizations for purposes of exchanging information and technical assistance
in their field of expertise.
TITLE IV
UENCIUDXSS
CHAPTER I
TUE BEUEFICIARIES
ARTGILE 42.* Benfielries,  The beneficiaries of the projects carried
out by thb Social Investment Fund shall be legal persons, groups and
commaunities, including the Social Investment Fund Businesses (SUPB) to which
Chapter II of the present Title refers to, Municipalities and other public and
private entities, Including not-for-profit private organizations that meet the
minimum requireomnts established in the Regulations and the Operational
Maul



Annex 6
Page 12 of 19
ARTICLE 43. Guarantees. Compliance with the obligations assumed by the
executors shall be guaranteed by the mechanisms established in the Operational
Manual.
CHAPTER II
BUSINESSES 0 THE SOCWI INVmSMNT FUND
ARTICLE 44. Deftuition.  By Social Investment Fund Businesses, whose
acronym shall be SIlP, shall be understood the production unit, formed by tan
or more persons, of age, that through a cash contribution, goods or labor,
join with the purpose of carrying out a productive activity that is part of
Social Investment Pund programs, previously approved by the latter. Its
members shall respond in a subsidiary, unlimited and jointly form to the
obligations of the business.
ARTICLE 45. Legal Status. The Social Investment Fund Businesses
established ln accordance with the present Decree and registered in the
respective Civil Register shall have legal status.
The legal status of these businesses is exclusively recognized during
the necessary period to carry out the project indicated in its incorporation
act or in the proceeding later authorized. Once such term has expired, the
legal status shall terminate on its own right, proceeding to its liquidation
without 144tation 'to the right of transformation provided by this Decree.
ARTICLE 46. Incorporation of the Social Investment Fund Businesses.
The incorporation of the Social Investment Fund Businesses and all their
amendments including extension of its term, capital increase and reduction,
entrance and retirement of members or any other reforms or expansions, shall
be recorded in minutes before the Municipal Mayor or notarial act, in plain
paper.
The incorporation act shall include the requirements provided for in the
Regulations of the present Decree; among others, it shall specifically
indicate the terms, restrictions and characteriatics that identify the
starting and ending point of a Social Investment Fund project.
ARTICLE 47. Powers of the Social Investment Fund Businees. The
Social Investment Fund Businesses shall exercise the rights and assume the
obligations necessary to carry out the objectives indicated in their
incorporation act and, in general, carry out all the activities necessary to
execute the project for which its incorporation was approved.
ARTICLE 48. Duration of the Social Investment Fund Businesses. The
Social Investment Fund Businesses shall be incorporated for a period that in
any case shall not be greater than the period of project execution or of
projects financed by the Social Investment Fund. Once the term has expired,
the SIFB can change to any of the legal persons recognized by comon law,
unless its members have decided to liquidate it. In both cases it shall be
governed by the provisions on transformation and dissolution established in
the present Decree.



Page 13 of 19
ARTIL  "49. Bod&es of tle Businesses. The surem  body of the Social
Ivestmet Fnd Busin"es   shall be the General Council of Mmbers# each
mmber shall hav, the right to on vote. Decisions shall be made by absolute
majority of votes.
A Board of Dirctors, composed of a minimum of thre and a maximum of
seven person., elected by the Gneral Council of Members shall be in charge of
administration.
The Board of Directors shall include a President, a Vice President, a
Secretary, a Treasurr, * deputy secretary and amber.
The Board sha11 be elected for a *mim  period of two years, and it can
be ree'..ted. If during ths period the company is eonverted, the
administration of the Board shall be demed as completed.
The President shall represent the business and, in his absence, the Vice
President  To verifj accreditation of legal representation a certification
issued by the Secretary of the Board of Directors shall be enough, or a
notarial act iosued In plain paper.
ARTICLE SO. Registration. All busin.ses of the Social Investment Fund
shall be registered in the Civil Registry of the Municipality where they are
located, In the specill book of Legal Persons Registry. The registration
shall be made through preentatlon of the original incorporation act wbhnever
authorized by Notary, or with certification issued by the Municipality, in
order for the registration to operate as legal person. An authenticated
photocopy of the act shall be submitted, whc  shall remain filed in the Civil
Registry.
ARTICLE 51. Traaefointiom. Unless the General Council of Members
decides to dissolve them, the companies created under the provisions of the
p-resent chapter shall be tranformed to adopt any of the organization forms
provided for under other decrees, once the project has been completed for
which its lncorporation was authorized or when it is able to incorporate
itself to the fcrmal national economy In accordance with the technical-
eceuomic parasters established by the Board of Directors of the Social
InWvstment Fund.
Once any of the possible cases indicated In the previous paragraph have
been established, the Genral Manager of the Social Investment Fund shall
dictate a resolution and inform the Board of Directors of the S8IB providing
at least fifteen days a*d no more than sixty days for it to Indicate whether
it wil bo trasfomed or not. Once said period has epiredt, with a reply or
without it, the Geeral Manager shall dictate a resolution ordering the
cacellation of the business's registration. Such decision is appealable
through repeal that In the last instanc aboll be resolved by the Board of
Directors of the Social Ivestment Fund. The latter's decision is not
appealable.
Once transformtion h   taken placet no pending obligations shall remain
with the Social Investmnt Fund; the aw legal person shall be the holder of
the rights and obligations of the origiarl SlF.



QAmex 6
Page 14 of 19
ARTICLE 52. Dissolution. The Soc4al Investment Fund Businesses can be
totally dissolved by an absolute majority of the General Council of Members if
and when they do not have any pending obligations.
The SIP's Board of Directors shall communicate the decision to dissolve
to the General Manager of the Social Investment Fund. An announcement sball
be placed in the Official Gazette ead in one major newspaper just once, and in
the corresponding municipal mayorship. If after one month there is no
opposition, a notarial act shaLl. be taken In which the dissolution resolution
shall be attached which shall be registered without any cost in the Civil
Registry where the SIPS is registered.
Members of the SIPB's Board of Directors and other members cannot
initiate any action after the total dissolution proceeding has taken place.
The Regulations of this Decree shall specify the other requirements to which
dissolution shall be subject to.
ARTICLE 53. supplementary Regulations. The SIPB sball be governed by
the provisions of the present Decree and its regulation., and the stipulations
of its Incorporation act.
The Commercial Code shall apply to them on matters expressly regulated
by the present Decree, whenever applicable.
CHAPTER III
EXECUTING BODDiS
ARTICLE 54. Executors. The Executor of a Social Investment Fund
project shall be the Individual or legal person that meets the professional
and technical expertise requirements for the execution of a project.
The Social Investment Fund shall contract the Smplementation of the
projects wlth the executing person. or entities mentioned above, including
not-for-profit private orgariAations.
The Social Investmena Fund shall maintain its onn registry of persons
and entities specialized in development that qualify, according to its
objectiveo, to participate as Consultants or Executors; in this sense the
entities contracted shall not be subject to pre-qualification in any other
institution.
ARTICLE 55. Supervision and Monltoring. The Social Investment Fund
sball supervise and monitor the execution of projects carried out with Its
financial backing and verify at any time compliance with 'the obligations
contracted by the executing unit with the project.
When the Social Investment Fund approves a project it shall ensure that
the costs and prices under whLch the execution of works, or the acquisition of
goods, supplies and services shall be contracted, are correct and reasonable.
Likewise, it shall verify compliance of the obligations sssumed by
governntal entities or municipalities participating In the projects, for



Annex 6
Page 15 of 19
which It can request the assistance of the General Comptrollership of the
Republic and of the Omnicipal Development Institute, as applicable.
ARTICLE 56. P?ramenUt Administration of the Projects. The projects
that have baen executed for the public sector shall be transferred to the
corresponding entity or agency, who shall assume the responsibility for their
operation, administration and maintenance. The Regulations of the Social
Investment Fund sball determine the mechanisms for carrying out the transfer
of the project on a case by case basis.
CHAPm iv
CONTCTS
ARTICLE 57. Documentatiou. All contracts or agreements entered into by
the Social Investment Fund shall be granted in writing. Based on the amount
established by the regulations, contracts can be granted in the institution's
printed forms, in private document or notarial iAstrument.
ARTICLE 58. Procedures * The contracts entered into by the Social
Investment Fund in printed forms or in private documents shall contain the
uinimum requirements indicated in the Regulations issued by the Board of
Directors for such purpose.
The signatures of the contracting parties shall be legalized by a
Notary, or the contracting parties shall identify themselves before a
Municipal Mayor or before a Yield Director of the Social Investment Pund,
through identification card or by two qualified witnesses.
ARTICLE 59. Legal Status. In all contracts, depending on the type of
entity involved, the legal status shall be verified following the procedures
established by regular decrees and the present Decree.
ARTICLE 60. Contract Amendments. Amendments, expansions and extensions
of Socia lvestment Fund contracts shall meet the requirements indicated in
the preceding Articles.
Once the beneficiary group or the executing entity have complied with
the obligations entered into In the contract, this fact shall be recorded by
simple reason placed by the Social Investment lund's legal representative at
the bottom of the contract; if the contract is registered in a public
document, the reason shall be placed in the testimony of the same.
ARTICLE 61. Executive Titlo. All contracts or agreements signed for
non-reimbursable grants shall have executive force to claim compliance with
the obligations contracted in the same in accordance with the seventh
paragraph of Articls three hundved and twenty-seven of the Civil and
Comercial Procedural Code.
When the agreement or contract contains an obligation to give or not to
do, the regulations for that type of executions as established in the
aforementioned code shall be observed.



Page 16 of 19
TI TZ
sPscIAL Rao=  aS             AND  --c -TI, or00 COO8
S    IES,  1    UND SRICS
ARTICLE 62. Application of tis legS.. The procuremet sad
contracting of goods, supplies, works and servics rqired by the Social
Investment Fund for Its operational and project ecution operation., as well
as those required by the public sector entities for execution of the projects
financed by the am, shall be subject to the regime etablished in the
present chapter snd in the Regulations of this Decree. Consequently, the
provisions of the Procurement and Contracting Dcree nor those of the Organic
Budget Decree shall be applicable to them.
ARTICle 63. Projocts Financed with Foveipi Rsources. Those projects
that are totally or partially financed with --esources originoting from
donations or loans from gowernments or liternational organizations shall be
governed by their regulations wherevor applicable and by those particular
regulations that have been especially itcluded in the respective agreement or
contract.
ARTICLZ 64. Direct Contracting. The Scial Investment Fund can
contract the execution of projects, works, supplies or services whose cost is
from FIVE THOUSAND and up to TWO BNDED THOUSAND QUETZAL3S, through a
contracting mechanism by unit price fixing that shall be governed by the
Regulations of the present Decree.
For these purposes, contracting through unit price fixing shall be
underotood as the consistent procedure of aintaining a permanently updated
Data Bank containing the unit costs nd performac  of the inputs and other
works factors for the main type of projects of the Scial Inveotment Fund.
The unit costs and performances, including freight, shall be specified by
department and municipality, including, besides, the reasonable profit margins
of the contracted esecutor. Through this mechanlis, the Pund shall fix the
contracting prices of works and supplies for the different types of projects
financed by 8IR whose cost Is below two hundred thousand Quetsales
(Q.200,000.00).
ARTICLE 65. Bidding Regime. 8hen the price of the works or services
contracted In a single act, with one individual or legal person for one price
or remuneration that exceeds TD  UNMDRED THOUSAND QUpTZALES sad up to Tf9Rl
HUNDRED AND PIFST THOUSAND QUETZALES, the cotracting must be made through the
present biddtng regime, In acordance with the criteria and amounts
established by its regulations.
Bids shall be requested from suppliers or contractors that are able to
sell or contract the required works or services.



Annex 6
Page 17 of 19
ARTICLE 66. Presentation of Bids. Those interested in presenting bids,
sball do so in the form provided by the Social tuvestment Fund, accompanied by
the other documento and copies requested. Prices, both unit and total, shown
in the bids shall be expressed in quetzales in numbers and words. Bids not
submitted within the deadline stipulated in the requirements established for
this purpose shall not be accepted. Only one offer per individual or legal
person shall be accepted for each contract.
ARTICLE 67. Did Commissions. The bids shall be reviewed by the
commissions established by the Regulations of this Decree.
The Bid Commissions shall have the power to receive, qualify and award
the contract. Their decisions must be made by absolute majority of its
members who cannot abstain from voting, recording the proceedings in the
respective minutes.
ARTICLS 68. Approval. The President of the Board of Directors of the
Social Investment Fund and the General Manager shall approve the awards made
by the Commissions as provided for in the Regulations.
ARTICLE 69. Guarantees. The individual or legal person who wins the
contract for the works, goods, supplies and services referred to in the
present regime, shall guarantee the validity of his offer and compliance with
its obligations. If the contract is for infrastructure works, he shall also
guarantee conservation of the works. The Regulations of this Decree shall
establish the form such guarantees shall have.
ARTICLE 70. Blds. When the price of the works or services expected to
be contracted in a single act, with one individual or legal person, exceeds
TOREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND QUETZALES, the contracting must be made
according to a Public Bidding process to be governed by the Regulations of the
present Decree.
ARTICLE 71. Operational Expenses. The procurement and contracting of
goods, supplies, works and services required by the Social Investment Fund for
its operations in an amount lower than TEN THOUSAND QUETZALES, can be made
without the bidding requirements provided for in this chapter. When they
exceed TEN THOUSAND QUETZALES it shall be made according to the bidding
procedures indicated in the present chapter.
ARTICLE 72. Agreements with Public Sector Entities. The Agreements
between the Social Investment Pund and the public sector entities shall be
stipulated and addressed in writing in accordance with the provisions of this
Decree and its Regulations.
ARTICLE 73. Public Sector Entities. Public sector entities that carry
out projects financed by the Social Investment Fund, are required to attach to
the Financing Agreement the list of goods and services that they will use in
their contractings in order for their procurement to be subject to the special
regime established in the present chapter.



Arnes 6
Page 18 of 19
TITLE VI
IIEA h SAND ECEOKC  EGIM
ARTICLE 74. Resourc Application. The operations carried out by the
social Investment Fund both with public sector institutions as well as with
those of the private sector, shall indicate the "ssigned amounts so as to
maintain an accounting record that allows to easily determine the availability
of resources.
ARTICLE 75. Budget. The annual budget of the Social Investment Fund
shall be approved by its Board of Directors and shall not be included In the
national income and expense budget, but the Ministry of Finance shall be
advised concerning the same.
ARTICLE 76. 8IF Rotating Fand Account. To facilitate the execution of
Social Investment Fund's programs and projects financed with resources
originating from loan agreements and donations that require the use of special
aecounts, the Social Investment Fund is hereby authorized to open and maintain
in the Bank of Guatemala a special account In quetzales that shall be
denominated SIF Rotating Fund.
ARTICLE 77. Payment of Advances and Rsanbursement of the SI Rotating
Fund. The Social Investment Fund is hereby empowered to request advances and
reimbursements to the corresponding financing entity under the terms and
conditions provided for in the respective loan or donation agreements.
When the fiancing entity advises that the amount of the advance or of
the reimbursement, whatevor the case may be, has been credited in foreign
exchange in -he foreign bankintg entity designated for such purpose, the Bank
of Guatemals shall credit the amount of the advance or of the reimbursement in
the SIF Rotating Fund, In quetsales, at the exchange rate in effect on the
date of the notice.
TITLE VII
OUITOtRING AND AUDIT
ARTICLE 780 Geoeral Accounts Co.ptrollership. Without limitation to
the provisions of this title with respect to monitoring and auditing, the
Social nveotment Fund shall be subject to the control and monitoring regima
of the General Accounts Comptrollership, In the tes  established by the
Political Constitution of the Republic of Ouatemala.
ARTICLE 79. Internal Auditing. To perform the permanent monitoring
duties, the Social Investmont Fund shall establish an internal auditing unit
that shall carry out its duties In accordance with the Regulations of the
present Decree. It shall be responsible for the isspection, monitoring and
control of the financial and accounting operations of the Socal Investment
Fund, and shall supervise correct compliance with the applicable decrees and
regulations of the same, as well as the resolutions of the Board of Directors,
Management, and other institutional authorities.



Page 1g of 19
ARTICLE 80. Internal Auditor. The Interal Auditor is the auditing
chief, appointed by the Board of Directors, to which it reports* He can be
removed from the post without cause. The chief of Internal auditing shall
have the corresponding asdemic degree and be currently licensed. He must
also meet the same qualifications and be subject to the limitations provided
for in Articles 20 and 21 of this Decree. Also, he shall also not have any
blood relationship with the General Manager or any member of the Board of
Directors.
ARTICLE 81. Exteroal Audita. To ensure compliance with the
responsibilities of the Social Investment Fund, the Board of Directors shall
contract the concurrent, annual and external audits involved in the financial
and accounting operations of the lnstitution, as well as compliance with the
term and conditions established in the agreements entered Into with the
different entities or governments. For this purpose it sholl contract the
services of auditing firms legally authorized.
TITLE VIIl
FINAL AND TSHPORARY PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I. First Board of Dlrectors. The first Board of Directors of the
Social Investment Fund shall be formed within thirty (30) working days
following the effectiveness date of this Decree.
ARTICL  II. *Iitial Contribution. Within ninety (90) days following the
effeLtiveness of this Decree, the Ministry of Public Finance soall provide the
Social Investment Fund the initial contribution provided for in Article 7 of
the present Decree.
ARSICLE III. Creation. The Social Investment Fund shall initiate its
operations no later than the first working day of the following month after
the formation of its first Board of Directors.
ARTICLE IV. Exceptions. For the operation of the Social Invostment Pund and
the implementation of its programs and projects, the provisions contained in
Articles 14 and 65 of the Organic Budget Decree, Decree 2-86 issued by the
Chief of State and all those legal or regulatory provisions in contradiction
to this Decree hball not apply.
ARTICLE V. Regulations. The Regulations of the present Decree shall be
issued within sixty days from the effectiveness date of the present Decree.
ARTICLE VI. Effectiveness. In accordance with Article 134 of the Political
Constitution of the Republic of Guatemala, the present Decree was approved by
a favorable vote of two thirds of the Congress of the Republic and shall
become effective eight days after its full publication in the Official
Gazette.
PROWD ... STC.
GIn  ... ETC.
POPMLATION AND DEVELOPHINT COWiISSION BOW, GUATEMAL



Annex 7
G2Uah1A6                         Page I of 4
SOCIAL I     ET  ND 
OPERATIOr 01S I'S DEMAND-DRIVl  MECEn NISw
1.   This annsx provides two example to help explain how the SIP's demand-
driven mechanism works.  The first illustrates the role of implicit prices in
SIP's demand-driven mechanism. The second outlines the steps in the process
from submission of a proposal by a local group to maintenance of the
subproject after the period of execution.
Examul A. Iualieit Prices In a Demand-driven Mchanism
2.    Consider the case where the objective is to finance two different
subprojects (for example, latrines and septic tanks) in two different
communitiesa One option that does not make use of a demand-driven mechanism
would be to make a needs assessment and then specify how many latrines and
septic tanks are to be built in each community.
3.   Using a demsnd-driven mechanism, the SIP would not assign the mix of
latrines and septic tanks the communities would receive. Instead, the SIP
would define appraisal and supervision criteria that a subprojoct proposal
must meet to be approved and to continue to receive funding. These criteria
are set to ensure that the subprojects mset minimum acceptable quality
standards, and will be different for latrine than for septic tank subprojects.
From the perspective of the those submitting subproject proposals (the
demanders), meeting the criteria involves costs. Thus, each subproject has
its own imollct yiU2. Becuse one community's ability to meet the
requiresmnts may differ from another's, different communities may face
different implicit prices for the same type of subproject. Typically, poorer
communities could be expeted to face higher implicit prices.
4.   A community's demand curve for latrines and septic tanks is expected to
be downward sloping - the higher an Implicit cost of the subproject to the
commuity (i.e o, the more coanditios the commurnty must meet to receive the
subproj ct), the lower the quantity demanded. In general, the two cammunities
would be expected to have different demand curves for the subprojects. For
example, tle poorer community may demand more latrines relative to septic
tanks for any given implicit price than would the richer one.
5.   The amount demanded of latrites and septic tanks would be determined by
where the implicit prices they effectively face intorsect their demand curves.
Provided the amount they demand is less than the 8IF's available funds, the
amount demanded would determine the amount inveted In latrines and septic
tanks in the two coamunities.
6.   Provisions must be made in the design of the project to avoid some
undesirable outomes that can arise with a demand-driven mechanism. The main
undesirable outcom is for rich communities to recelve the majority of the
funds to finance subprojects that are visewd by the SIF as being of lower
priority.
7*   An illustration of how this undesirable outcome could come about is
provided below. In figur 2, the Implicit prices for both latrines and septic



Page 2 of 4
tas for tbc poor commmity are higher than the maIMUM they are willing to
p. Thus, thy will not submit any (fundable) proposals to the SI!. The
rich community, facing
loer Implicit prices,                        POOR COAOMM Y
will submit proposal                                               )
to finance both                      P1(p              IinpMsM.
latrines and septic 
tanks, with most of
the demand going for
septic tanks.  In the                   D                         D
worst case scenrio,
the aount of SIT                    LaStI   ouIt                SOP&ls 1h4""
funds received by the
rich communities could
exhaust the total                             RICH COMbUNITY
available, leavxing -S,,,,
nothing for the poor
communities.                                                   \     (r)
S .   This outcome can                    ...... .
be avoided by setting
an absolute limit on                                                  banaft
the amount of latrines
and septic tanks
available to both the
poor and the rich community and by attempting to reduce the Implicit prices
facing the poor community, especially with regard to latrines. In the estrme
case, the 8I1 could exclude septic tanks for financing consideration, which is
equivalent to setting an Wnfinite implicit price. The Guatemalan 81 will use
a combination of restrictiose of types of subprojects in a standardised menu
and the setting of quantitative limits on the funds available to
municipalities to ensure that poor communities have access to funds.
9* As the case depicted above indicates, this may be necessary but not
sufficient for poor commnities to participate. The graphs indicate that the
absolute limit would only be a binding constraint on the rich community. It
would ensure that the SIN would not commit all its resources to the rich
community. Nowever, without any further efforts to reduce the implicit price,
the poor community would still not request any projects. The SIP would use
several instruments to roduce the Implicit price. First, the counterpart
requiremetas vould be set lower in the poorer municipalities. Second, the 8IP
would help the poor communities prepare subproject proposals and contract with
third parties to provide technical assitance to the poor communities.
10. The example illustrates the fundamental role played by the rules
governing how the funds will be distributed. If funds were distributed on a
first-com  first served basis with few conditions to be met by sponsoring
agencies, the projoct design would be simpler. However, the quality of the
subprojets may be unacceptable and the actual outcome across types of
subprojects and communities may be undesirable. At the other extreme, if the
rules were so restrictive as to Limit the local communities to very few
choices, the essence of the demand-driven approach would be subverted. For
example, if the international donors and the government were only willing to



Page 3 of 4
finance a nutrition project, structuring the rules in such a way as to induce
the comaunitie  to choose only a nutrition subproject vould be inefficient.
It would be better to follow the more traditional approach to social sector
investments nd to assign the nutrition subproject to the communities. A
balance between the two extremes must be sought to achieve the desired
objectives.
xasmwle B. The Stoes in the Process
11.  There are many different ways that a subproject proposal can reach the
SIP. The following exmple illustrates one of them.
12.  SIT promoters would visit a community to explain the objectives of the
SIP, distribute guides for preparing subprojects, and to suggest some simple
types of subprojects the c6mmunity could propose. The promoters would speak
the indigenous language and the promotional materials would be in the
appropriate language. After the presentation, the members of a health
committee may decide they want to propose the construction of latrines. Other
groups In the community may want to propose different types of subprojects and
that is permitted. This example will follow only the proposal of the bealth
ccmttee.
13  The health committee may prepare the proposal by themselves following
the guide provided by the SIP. If they know of an 1O working in the area,
they could request their ssistance in the preparation of the proposal. Let
us assume that the GO preparos the proposal on behalf of the health
coimittee* The BGO would then become the sponsoring agency.  The sponsoring
agency would submit the proposal to the SIk and would respond to SIP requests
for revisions.
14.  The eozcutor of the project would be selected in accordance with
establisbed procurement rules. The preference would be for LCB or local
shopping, but in the case of small subprojects in remote areas, it may be
necessary to follow direct contracting. Once an executor acceptable to SIF is
selected, a four party agreement would be signed among the SIP, the executor,
the sponsoring agency, and the beneficiaries   The beneficiaries must
participate in this agreement because they would be called upon to provide
counterpart contributions, in this case their labor. The beneficiaries must
have a legal personality that would enable them to enter into such contracts.
lS.  The proposal would also have to include a sustainability plan. In this
example, it is likely that the maintenance would be undertaken by the
community rather than by a line ministry. The responsibility for ensuring
that the matntenance would be done might be assumed by the health comittee.
The health committee must have legal powers to enable it to take on a
contractural obligation to collect fees for maintenance and to manage a small
fund for that purpose. If the health committee did not have legal status,
they could form a (SIP Business, Empresa. PIS) to attain one. Thus, the four-
party agreoment would involve specific bsneficiaries who would be called upon
to provide the counterpart contribution and the health committee who would be
called upon to ensure maintennce.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
16   when the SIP receives the proposals it would check whether funding the
subprojects would not exceed the limit for the particular muicipality. If a
limit would be exceeded, the SIP would have the option of so advising the
sponsori oageoncy or requesting Bank approval to change the lmits. If no
quantitative limits are exceeded, the SIF would appraise the proposal
following the appratsal criteria set forth in the Operational Maualne This
would include site visits.
17. The SIP would also check with the Ministry of Health (MOR) to ensure
that latrine rehabilitation for that community is not planned for that year.
If the SIP approves the proposal, it would notify the MOE that the proposal
hba been approved. Because the NOR would not be responsible for saintenance
of the latrines, there would be no need to enter into a three party contract.
18. Once the proposal is approved, the executor would receive an advance and
subsequent payments would be made against evidence of payments and subject to
the work meeting the supervision criteria of the SIT. SIP staff or
consultants under contract to the SIT would conduct a financial and physical
audit as part of the supervision. The executor would have the legal status to
contract private subcontractors and the SIP would provide guidance in the
drafting of siple contracts. However, the 8IP would not enter into direct
contractural agreements with the private sub-contractors.



Page I of 3
8IF OROAUIZATION
|     dPresident
of the Republic
Board of
Directors
External_--_- _
Auditng 
LDiviaja                     Executive
President
General
manager
Administration                           Internal
& linence Division                    Auditing Division
Public Relations                           Lsslon
Division                               Divisio
Strategic PlOpartons
Department                                      Department
lnen-    lhuman    Informa-   Plan-           Promo-  IEvalU-   Super-
cial      Res.       tion .nin                tion      tion      vision
_Cop.     Div.    Systems       Div.          Div.       Div.      Div.



Am£ex8A
Page 2 of 3
1.   The management of the SIs would be carried out by a five-sember Board of
R1uctoru noudnated by the President of the Republic. The Board would be
reponsible for fomlating the gidin  priciples end policies of the
institution. It would be headed by an Chaisan, who would also be the
eecutiv. director and have the title of kxecutiv  Ptesidnt. The Board's
member would topresent different ocio-economic sectors of the country.
2.   A General Manager would be In charg of mpleomting the policies and
procedures approved by the Board of Directors. This person would report
directly to the ksecutive President.
3-   The Van           2gMLUt would be responsible for approving subprojects.
Tbis committee would be headed by the Executive President and consists of the
General Managor, the head of the Strategic Planning Department, the heads of
the Operations Deprtment and its tbree divisions, the legal advisor, and the
internal auditor; others way be designated by the Executive President
depending on the nature of subprojects. The legal advisor would record all of
the decisions taken by the committee.
4.   The Str tgJri P]q1n DeDsrt"e; would be composed of four divisions:
the Financial Cooperation Division, the Human Resources Division, the
Information Systems Division, end the Planning Divisions
(a)  The  Mn giFl    ng.UJgM Dlvlalon would consist of a director
responsible for planning and coordinating 8IE's relations with
national and international organinations offering financial and
technical support;
(b)  The _uma 12aoureazs.  D a   would consist of a director
responsible for evaluating the institution's personnel needs and
for recruitment of an adequate numuer of qualified individuals;
(c)  The  uI1gnJtl sn Sm..tws Divgn would consist of a director, a
system  analyst, a progr_er, and a coputer operator and be be
responsible for iuplsmting and maintaining a managemnt
inforation system (MIS) and for trainig STIP staff in its use.
Th MIS would be used to maiftain up-to-date financial and
administrative records and to,monltor subprojects from the initial
request through supervisions and
(d)  The wl)&Mda 2&1&   vould consist of five secto'r specilists -
one each in health, education, productive sector, infrastructure,
and community developaent. Each sector specialist would have the
responsiblity to assist in the planning of SIF strategy in their
respective area of expertise. This would Include review of the
design of prototypical subprojects In the menu of eligbile
subprojects, reommendati on of mechaninm and technical criteria
for promotion, appraisal, and supervision, and coordination of 811
strategies and actions with those of line minlstries and ot0ar
institutions outside the gvernment. The sectorial specialists
would also he responsible for overseeing the collection,



Page 3 of 3
procosing, and analysis of sectoral data to monitor and evaluate
the Impact of subprojects in their sector. In the analysis of
lnternal SIP administrative data and external data, they would be
ssisted by two specialists In statistics and data analysis.
S.   The  t9MonM_1guJgtmnt would be responsible for the promotion,
appraisal, and *upervision of subprojects finnced by SIP. It would be
composed of thre. divisionss the Promotion Division, the Evaluation Division,
and the Supervision Divisions
(a)   The Promotion Olvil   would consist of a director, an assistant,
a heed of registration, 10 toehnical promoters, and 20 community
promoters. The promoters would he'p communities identify and
prepare projects that could be financed by the SIP. The promotion
would be done In the local language by promoters recruited with
the cultural background necessary to interact with the
communities;
(b) The Appraisal Division would consist of a director, an assistant,
and 12 appraisers. Included in this division would be the cost
center that would maintain up-to-date regionalized unit prices for
the inputs in eligible subprojects appearing in the menut this
cost center would be staffed by a chief and two assistants; and
(c)   The Suyervision Division would consist of a director, an
assistant, and 9 supervisors.
6     In addition, there would be three regional offices of the SIF which
would form the base for field operations. No later than at the end of the
first year of operations, regional promotion and supervision offices vwlld
also be established to further the SIP's aim toward decentralixation, do
later than at the end of the second year of operations, an analysis of the
feasibility of establishing regional appraisal offices would be undertaken.
7.   In addition to the Planning and Operations Departments, the SIP would be
supported by four divisions that help in carrying out its operational
responsibilities. The Financial Administration Division would be respons.Able
for the management of SIT's finances, persomnel, and accounting. This would
include the supervision of all of the SIF budgets, salaries, and cash flow of
subproject (!Libursements. The Public Relations Division would respond to the
requests for information about the SIJ from potential. sponsoring and executing
agencies, Corgress, the press, and other interested parties. It would engage
in active dissemination of Information to ensure the transparency of SIP
operations. The primary responsibility of the Legal Division would be to
write contracts for the subprojects and control and validation of the
guarantess that would be required. The office would also be responsible for
preparing consultant contracts and providing legal advice. The Internal
Audlitin Division vwould bu responsible for overseeing the day-to-day
bookkeeping and for verifying the transparent financial administration of the
institution.



,SM9
Page 1 of I
SOCnL    I=  PRWJECT
SIP PARTICIPAlTS
ain nrtlcints.  Because of the participation of local groups and the
used to coordinate  17 subprojects with the line ministries, more participants
ar involved in the project than Is the case with a typical Bank-financed
socil sector proj et esecuted through a line ministry. A diagram identifying
the participants, together with a brief sumary of their roles is provided
below.
LOCAL
- Propose subprojects   - BEecute subproject       - Provide counterpart
- Provide counterpart   - Enter into maintenance    contributions in form
financing                agreements                of cash, labor or in
- Operate financing plan   kind
for subprojects whose  - Enter into maintenance
maintenance is            agreemn4ts
autofin*nced            - Assist in supervision
- Hire sub-contractors      oflsubprojects
NATIONAL
Llse HinlstKls           SFIP                      National Institutions
- Help define amenu &    - Solicit funds from      - Belp define menu and
subprojects              int'l donors              subprojects
- Help define appraisal - Monitor investments,   - Help define appraisal
criteria                 provide detailed          criteria
- Take over recurrent      reports                 - Provide training
costs of subprojects  - Plomote, appraise, and   components in
where appropriate        supervise subprojects     subprojects under
contract to SIP
INTERNATIONAL
External Audltors        International Donors      Local Offices of nt'n1
- Audit finsncial        - Provide funds           Institutions
records               - Help design project    - Provide TA for SIP
- Audit physical works  - Monitor SIP operations    operation
- Provide TA for design
and appraisal of
particular types of
subprojects
- Prove TA to comply w/
requirements of int'l
donors



Page   of 3
SOCL InESThIZT FPD P;CT
UIDP TBC!MICAL AS2I8ACE
1.  STchnical assistance to the STY would be provided by national
institutions, local offices of internatioal institutions, and consultants.
The contracta for teebhical ssistance would be managed by UNDP, vith the
coordination of the Bank. On the basis of the experience accumulated through
It. Preparatory Assistance and in the execution of similar projects in other
countries of the region, and in accordance with the priorities established by
the Government of Guatemala in the definition of USDP'. VI Assistance Program
for the period 1992-1996, the UNDP will provide technical assistance services
to cover three arin areas:
(a)   Planalnn . Nib_-Level Management and Operatioys. This area would
include advisory services to SIF's Board of Directors, Executive
President, Managing Committee, and General Manager in defining and
Implementing policies, strategies and social development and
poverty alleviation programs   This would include advisory
services to attract international financial assistance with the
coordination of the Bank, and to comply in a timely basis with
International commitments, including the application of norms and
procedures, advising on actions for adequate financial planning,
follow-up and monitoring for application and updating of the
poverty map, advising the Managing Committee on the application of
criteria for project approval and to the General Manager in the
organixation, administration and control of SIP's operations.
This would also include advisinu on: the establishment of
effective procedures for community participation in the projects
and in solving poverty problems; project sustainability
strategies, including municipal strengthening for the formulation
of developmnt projects; the establisbment of inpact measuring and
statistical systems; advising in the establishment of rotating
funds and local credit systems; strengthening of MOOs; advising on
training of personnel from SIP and the participating communities;
and inter-institutional coordination and the application of a
strategy to transfer SIP programs to the corresponding line
ministries to support the government's modernization process.
(b)   Snecialized Technical Assistance to Snecific Proartms.  This area
would include advice on specific points for the development of
progrsa components, according to sectoral specialties, including
low-cost technology transfer applied to poverty eradication
programs. Special consideration would be given to the
establishment and transfer of technological and managerial skills
in the priority areas of health, food and nutrition, education,
infrastructure, productive projects and institutional
strngtheniag at the basic level.
(c)   Intitutionl SgrenzLh-eau    and Lo  stical Sunuiort. This area
would include the institutional and operational strengthening of
SIP through the contracting and training of its principal
technall  staff, General Manager, heads of departments and
divisions and other key personnel. It would also include the



F 10
Page 2 of 3
fianlag of loca  subcontracts for design and other specialized
take (i.e., agreemnt. with INE to cay out surveys) end the
purchs    sad   at        of offico, cemputer, vehle and
ccinunietiou equipment.
2.    It to oetuated that two full-tin  exprts will be nded, oe for .
period of three years and the other for 18 uonth.. It 1t also eatimated that
there  ill be 54 prso,    onths of couultutships In various specites for
specific tasks. This techical assistance will coat 11S$1.4 million.
nmumL o"AsGLun
S.    TbS techical assistance wll be provided as a  camponet of a larger
8S$4.7 mi4llon project financed, frm Its start, by the Govenmet of
Gustemalav, UID, snd the Bank. A non-reimbursable UDDP contribution of
US$700,000 for co-financing the project is expected to cover the coat of the
preparatory easistance. The UDP project include. the contracting and
training of the Government'a national technical staff, local subcontract. for
mynltoring and evaluation, the purchase and maintenanco of office, computer,
vehicle, and  oo  unications equipmet, and  dminiastratlve staff and expenses.
A detailed broakdown, following UNDP'a classfication, is given below.
TECENICAL ASSISThNCE PROJECT BUDGET
SD1P-SIP 1993-1995
(US$ 000)
TOTAL.     YEAR 1      YEAR 2      YEARS3
a. ~      ~; ; ITE                  -                               R-- -
_L      _                                SM. us M IM    uS$  MJ   U-s   MIM  us$
_~~ -    -                                    -     -    -    -    -
010 NTERNATONAL STAFF
1t.0t PTA                           30  314.0  12  10N.0  12  106.   12  105.0
_~eu ... O. _rio                  1_  -    -       -,  -    -           
11.02 b__    In DM.__________162.0              12   108.0   6   54.0
11.03 Vsaun Cmuvdbaw                54  648.0  24  2#.0 18  21B0  12  144.0
II  Sub_tM                        _0                 5 1.14 4 04.0 4a  37S0   242S2.0
0   AONUMIISTAW STAFF-                      -     -     -     -     -     -
itol1 IUNDPMW Admn. cono*  _ io.0   I I   30.0  t2   300                     2  30.0
-                                                                     -      -..__   __
18.02 AdmL A*dtw I                 36   46.8  12   15.6  12   15.6  12  15.6
13.03 A*nm AmMUM                    3a   39.6  121  13.2  12   13.2  12  13.2
1304_  ______ _                    10_1  108.0    6   36.0  36   36.0  36  36.0
t3AS _isoWkMeow tlrwm               1    16..6    5    5.2    5    5.2        5.2
_S_SW                           -23   300.0  77  t         -.0   77   00 7 7   10.0
0OFIAL TRAV_  L                 -       - O         - 6         -     - 
____    ___ ____  ___ ____  _o       .150.0        50.0    I   50.0        50.
12 -01                               o  130.0        50.0         50.0       30.0
15AS Subtotd                         0  20.0    0  100.0    0  100.0    0   80.0
Ole mso   coss               ---        -    -      -
16.01 __w_lngdulW _ In           _       20.0         SO 80__0                640
16.99 SubUM                          o   20.0         8.0         6    60    C   6.0
0171       PLROFESSIONALS
17.011"aww hojwamatw36   80.0  12   80.0  12   30.0 1               8I 0.0



Anne"
Page 3 of 3
17.02 Admn. & Rncl Orecto                30    64.0   12    18.0   12    18.0   12   18.0
17.03 DOVblcpm nlretn                    36    54.0   12    18.0   12    18.0   12   18.0
17.04 Evausc Dhrector                    36    54.0   12    18.0   12    18.0   12   18.0
17A5 sworAw" 9koatw                      36    54.0   12    18.0   12    18.    12   18.0
17.0 Infomution System Orecto            36    54.0   12    18.0   12    18.01  12   18.0
17.07 RFenoW Astebbnce Dirctw            36    54.0   12    18.0   12    18.0   12   18.0
17     onnog & Staot. Dreor        S       .0   12   18A    1:    18.t 1o    2   t8A 
17.09 Hnunen RournesDi retor             30    54.0   12    18.0   1 2    18.0   12   18A
17.10 Pubc Rions  etorw                  38    54.0   12    18.0   12    18.0   12   18.0
17.11 SectorSpec In Heth                 36    43.2   12    14.4   12    14.    12   14.
17.12 Seoc SP Lin W.InW t    Saitabn     30    43.2   12    14.4   12    14.4   12   14.4
17.13 Seto Spe. In Educton               36    43.2   1 2    14.4   12    14.4   12   1
17.14 SeatorSpao In nfructr            Vi   43.2   12    14.4   1 2    14.4   12   14.4
17.15 Sectorpec.InConimunktyD.v.         36    43.2   12    144    12    14.4   12   14.4
17.16 Seetor Spe In Munlo. Strengthn     36    43.2   12    14.4   12    14.4   12   14.4
17.17 Setr Spec in HbndIft               36    43.2   12    14.4   12    14.4   12   14.4
17.18 Setor Spe In MioEnwprises          38    432    12    14.4   12    14.4   12   14.4
17.19 Sector Spec. In Agdo. & Cte Producaion    36    43.2   12    14.4   12    14.4   12   14.4
17.20 Sector Spc In Credit  Rotdng Funds  36    43.2   12    14.4   12    14.4   12   14.4
17.21 MscdallarimSpecesw                228   342.0   76   1140    76   114.0   76  1140
17S Subtots                             948 1360.0  3t6   450.0  31H   450.0  316  450A
018 TOTAL COMPONENT                        3,084.0       1,162.01     1,034.01      8ssA
020 SUBCONTRACTS                                               
21.01 Suboonitrat (desion. cve, ec.)          600.0         200.0        200.0        200.0
029 TOTAL COMPONE                            600.0        200.0         200.0        200.0
030 TRAINING
31.00 Han_s-on Tran                            65.0          30.0         20.0         15.0
32.00 S.dnwo_                                  85.0          20.0         30.0         35.
039 TOTAL COMPONENT                  ,                           -             -on  =     50.0  5 so
040lEQUIPMENT
41.01 Oper"ainl Equi mot                                     20.-  -      20 -  - -  -.-
41.02|NonCp_W Equlpi                 l         SOOAO 5.0    420.0         30.0         40.0
0498 TAL COMPONENT                           550.0        450.0          50.0         50.0
0M0 IWSCELLANEOUS                     -           -        -     -      -      -     -
061 Equipnt Maintonwm                         90.0         30.0          30.0         30.0
052 Other                                     60.0         20.0          20.0         20.0
059 TOTrAL COMPONENT                         150.0 - =.0                 50.0         50.0
88 UNODP  h     a  bpe                       182.0         72.0          54.0         36.0
989 TOTAL                                              I 4, .0-  1,84.-0  1,438.   1,274.0



Page 1 of 4
ME OF K0 PO MHOIpORING AND EVU&TIOp STUDIES
The follon  term  of reference cover conultancies related to the
monitoring and evaluation compont (US$0.6 million) of the project.
(a)  ftkIM11on ad Comletion of the tIS Imlemenittion
QWggllve' To esure that 8SI  bas an effective HIS system that
can produce tiely Information to serve managemen, promoters,
appraisers, supervisors, and to provide information for semi-
annual reports and anual reviews.  The SIt would have an initial
MIS, satisfactory to the Bank, in place beforvi effectiveness. The
consultancy would help the SIP rofine its syetem.
-     In view of the $I1's expected lacrease in the number of
subprojects to be processed, assess the 418' capacity to
handle network processing of subproject unit costs;
-    Assess the supervision control system so as to ensure SIP's
capacity to keep track of the expected large number of
projects to be executed. Also, assess the system capacity
to cross reference budget control and disbursement orders
with the administrative system;
-     Assess the accounting computerized system capacity to
process the expected large number of transaction, to produce
financial statements, expense reports, to post transactions
automatically by source of funds and other indicators;
-     Assess the overall system capacity, network and linkage
possibilities;
-    Asses SIP's operational procedures applied in the use of
the MIS in the different departments;
-    Assess SIP's personnel training in the use of the systems;
-    Assess the MIS capacity to produce adequate reports and key
performance indicators as requested by IDA and other donors.
Design those complementary reports that may be needed;
-     In close consultation with the MIS department hrad,
determine the needs for changes or improvements in any or
*11 of the systems; and
-    Working with the MIS department programmers, design and
implement the needed nomplementary computer programs.
Expected Date of Consultanc: Your person-months consultancy to
be completed by July 31, 1993, with a total cost of US$40,000.
(b)   InDletmntation of a Geograohic Information fSstem (GIS)
Obj9cjireJs To allow the SIP to monitor the spatial distribution
of .ubprojects, to facilitate coordination with other government
investments, and to identify different regional characteristics.



Page 2 of 4
-       1Provid  digitised maps of Guatemala at the 1 50,000 scale.
Thes" maps shold  be in a form that can be rea  by the
software package ATLAS 0G85
-    The maps should provide ovorlays indlcating, Inter alias
population denity, lmicipal boundaries, altitude,
ethnicity, language, water sheds, poverty Indicators by
municipality, ad prozisity of health poets;
The 0T5 system should pexmit the S1T to incorporat, data on
the location and characteristics of all their ivestmets;
-    The software should permit the $IF to make queries of their
data base and to visualize coverage of their ivestments;
The consultant should provide training to S8D staff In the
use end maintenance of the GI8 systm. The training should
allow the SIP to update the 018 with now Information as it
becomes available.
KIected Date of Consugltc: Twelve person-moths assignment to
be completed by December 31, 1993, with a total cost of US$80,000.
(c)  _valuate Boet Practices ins  (a) Water gnd Sanitation: fb)
Nutritio, (a) Iducation. and  d) Productive Suburolects
Objsctivew: To bring successful and unsuccessful practices to the
attention of the SIP and the Government. The consultants are to
focus on the extremes, where clear lesons can be learned, rather
than on a general assssment of the quality.
-    In light of SIP experience, identify promising technical
innovations within the particular sector;
-    In light of 8SI experience, identify unsuccessful approaches
within the particular sector;
-    Draw lessons from the experience for future SIP operationa;
-    Draw lesons from the experienc  for isplementation of other
Govorment social sector ivestments; and
-    The consultent(s) sbould work closely with the sectorial
spec iaists In the strategic planning division of 8IP.
Exmogted Date of Cgnsultauiess A total of 24 person-months
consisting of 4 consultanies, for each anual review to be
completed one mnth prior thereof, with a total cost of US$80,000.
(d)  Evaluate SN's Effectiveness in Reachina Tamext Grouos
Ob-gk£4 s To ensure that 8SI procedures ensure the
participation of target groups and to receivs feedback on how to
improve comunity participation. The study would produce three
reports for each annual revi w.
(L)  The first reoo  would  asess the strength of comunnity
organizations in six of the poorest rglions of the country
(I. Nuehuetenango, B. zE Quiche, Alta Veraps2, lajaverapax,



cS 11
Pose 3 of 4
Peten, and high priority municipalities of B. GuatuAl) and
make recomendations for action through the SIP'.
atr t         of itplementing agencies compouent.  This
roport would be due no later than 3 uonths prior to the
arnal reviews.
(11)  The  sg-ogd rtort would be based on interviews of a
purposive sample of 20 communities vhich submitted
subproject proposals to the SIP and 10 communities which
were visited by SIP promoters, but did not submit proposals.
The sample should include a high percentage of indigenous
communitiel
-     The Interviews should ascertain how the villages decided
upon their subproject proposals, what groups were involved
in making the decision., whether there were problems
communicating the goals of the SIP, and, in the case where
subproject proposals were not submitted, the reasons why;
-     The consultants should pay particular attention to the
participation of women and indigenous groups;
The consultants should prepare a report on the structured
interviews, due no later than 3 months prior to the annual
reviews. Following the structured interviews, the
consultant(s) would design a survey questionnaire
administered to a random sample of 200 communities. The
questionnaire would be approved by the Bank, after
consultation with the SIP;
(iII) The third rnort would analyze the results of the larger
survey and make recommendations for improving the
effectiveness of SIP operations in serving the needs of
indigenous communities. This report would be due no later
than one month before each annual review.
Eenocted Date of Consultanciess: A total of 24 person-months is
expected to be needed over the course of the three annual reviews,
with a total cost of US$120,000.
(e)   Design ad Imulement a Mechanism to Evaluate  mnDact of SIP-
Financed Sub nroegt
9jict$vest To design appropriate mechanisms to measure the
welfare impaet of the SIF.
-    Determine an adequate subproject sample to be used for the
design of the impact evaluation mechanism;
-     Istablish the guidelines and requirements to determine
adequate subprojects samples;
-    Design the impact evaluation mechanism applicable to each
type of subproject in accordance with the sampling
procedure;



Page 4 of 4
-     Identify intermdiate measures of the potential impact, such
as service utilisation rates, asvwll as meaures of the
flal impact, such as nutritional statuse
-     EJsure that SIF creates a Unit within the suporvision
department to bo trained by the consultant in the use of the
impact evaluation mechanismal and
-     Mechanisms to be designed by the consultants should include
input from SIF, exeuting ageiese and beneficiaries.
F=ected Date of Congt'MtU=s Three person-months assignment to
be completed by December 31, 1993, with a total cost of US$30,000.
(f) Dpta CglSee$ion for Imnact &valuation
Ob1jWtjvsVs To collect data to be used for the welfare Impact
evaluation. This information will be used to indicate what
subprojoets and what characteristics of the subprojects are
associated with the largest Impact. This will provide feedback on
the promotion, appraisal, and supervision criteria uRed by the
SIP.
-     Collect baseline household level vmelfare indicatozz as
specified in the evaluation design (e);
-     Conduct two follow-up household level surveys;
-     Provide oan diskette cleaned data seta either in ASCII format
or in a format that can be read by leading PC-baoed
statistical tsaslysis packages; and
-     Provide full .ocumentation on data sets as well as a report
on field operations.
linected Date of Consultane. The baseline survey would be
carried out by January 31, 1994 and the follow-up surveys by
January 31, 1995 and January 31, 1996, with a total cost of
US$250,000.



AMU
9UAWAL&                ~~~~PassIOf I
PRCT am D An
sawn OP 1JJCT CO0
WI       lXsUdnl    Tota
-   -11$ m4 llion-
ocal Assistance (Ioludftg
C@.munity  etht, Food and Nutrition,
and lstc Education)                      10.9         2.7       13.6
Socia Infratructur. (icludtig
Bealth, Wter, Sa8itation, and
Education)                               24.4         8.9       33.3
Economic Infrastructure                      9.8         4.5       14.3
Productive Sector                            5.9         0.9        6.8
S11IPE tB^slrtionVmooe
Operating Costs                              5.0        0.2         5.2
Equipment (vehcles,
computers, etc *)                          0.4        0.2         0.6
Thnicl - 1Assistance                         0.4         1.0        1.4
Monitoring and Evaluation                    0.3         0.3        0.6
Contiggucios for TA and Equipment            0.1        0.1         0.2
3btot                                     62
gtreInthanne of Suonsogrin  and
KDoautin Agncies                            ,2*0        2.0       4-0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTV                      59.2       2A
PINANCING PLAN                              Loc.        Porele      Total
----US$ millian-
Goverment                                  11.3         0.0        11.3
Beneficiarles                               8.0         0.0         8.0
SpoDsorlng Agencies
(NO*,, unicipslities and other.)          4.0         0.0         4.0
IBED                                       11.2         8.8        20.0
ICIE                                        4.7         5.3        10.0
Gerany (K")                                12.0         6.0        18.0
mDP                                         0.0          0.7        0.7
Other Donors (Uxidentified)                 8.0          0.0        8.0
Total Financig          59.         aL
1t Net of taxes and duties.
I/  IDB and OPEC Fund hve expressed possiblo interest.



9ATEVAL&                       page   of I
M 1ETOSM  BY CAT1GORY
{Xn 5$ million)
CA~~IRO          c       CB  | M    ImB            TOTAL
Civil Work. and M.t.            0.0      6.8    11.9       49.3     68.0
(6.1)  (10.7)              (16.8)
3quip.t                         0.0      0.1      0.1       0.4      0.6
(0. 1)   (0. 1)             (0.2)
Coatete, Tvi   a d              0.0      0.0      2.0       4.2      6.2
Auditors'  er0 (ie                               (20)0)
SaLi,    nlce   d               0.0      0.0      1.0       4.2      5.2
Operatig Costs of the 8IP                        (1.0)              (I 0)
TOTALS   0.0      6.9    16.0       57.1      80.0
(0.0)    (6.2)   (13.8)             (20.0
Notess Fiure. In parentbhses are the amounts estimated to be financed by the
Bank
3P -  lot Bank 1±naaced
V      C    ltt sad other service contracts procured under procedure.
acceptable to the Bank
v   tLocal Shoppig and Direct Contracting



95YJC1YI~                        Pae I of 2
SOCIAL MMUC=IIU  FtpON    JC
WITUDAWA  f inTE  PROCEEDS OF LOAN
I_S
Amount of the
Category             Loan Allocated       Z of Expenditures
(expresed in         to be financed
US$ million
equivalent)               _
SIP Subprojects (social                  15.8    901 of disbursements by StF
lufrastructur., socil                            for eligible subprojects
services)                                        approved by June 30, 1996
Equipment                                 0.2    1002 of eligible foreign
expenditure.; 802 of
eligible local eVpenditures
Consultant Services for                   2.0    1001
Tebhnical Aesistance to 8IF,
municipalities,  00s., and
comunuity groups, trainlng, and
auditors' services
SIP Salaries, Allowance.,                 1.0    1002 up to an aggregate
Maintenance                                      amount of US$0.5 million,
502 up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.75 million,
and 252 thereafter
Unallocated                               1.0    1001
Total                                   20.0



Ax m14
Page 2 of 2
ISTmATED SCNDUL O DIS_rs
(US$ million)
Bank I                Disbureed              Dieb. a.
1oa       8meter        Durixg   Cumlative Percetage Balance of
Tear      RiadU  S_m8ter   Amount    of Total             Loan
93    Jun. 30 1993      3.0_    3.0             15.0       17.0
94    Dec. 31, 1993      2.4       5.4                     14.6
Jun. 30, 1994     2.4        7.6          39.0       12.2
95    Dec. 31, 1994      2.4      10.2                      9.8
Jun. 30, 1395     2.4       12.6          63.0        7.4
96   VU.. 31, 1995       2.4      15.0                      5.0
Jun. 30, J996     2.4       17.4          87.0        2.6
97    Dec. 31, 1996      1.3      18.7                      1.3
Jun. 30, 1997      1.3      20.0         100.0        0.0
Icludes the nital  deposit of US$2.0 million to the Special
Account.



GUI~A                                      lPa  I of 2
SOCIA INVSIT  PU! P=JC
The followus dudicetor. will be the besi  for the annul reviews to be
uudrtaken by April 30 of 1993, 1994, and 1995.
I tIMhhTS (SA JAM $3)
INICATUD          1sltC                CNJECTIL l                  94     IIIL 95       ARIIIL 96
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___PINOJETS   -  PRO WOICO     A  APPRASAL                _ _ _ _ _
1.  Number ot          .o         _     etermfine actwtl duan
popjct           databset        for SIF'. flnoming ad         1,000         1.200         1,40
r _st                            evaluato 81F'
______    promt!!ien capcity                        _ _ _ _ _ _
2.  Ih_r of            "ojt              tmin SIF's
ahprojects       database        appraisal capcity              670          1,We          1,300
a p    r i e           _   _  _   _ ,._             _  _ ._            _              .     _   _ _.
3.    ar of POfsosml                  Assur  that SIF has
evalutors        mmn.n           enough  fe sions               10             12            14
4.  Numer of          Subproject      Detemne SIF81's
; suproJects     databse         mrginal ealuatIon              6.7           6.9           7.1
aWpaised by                       capacity 
eluator w 
_-__     _ _ __                                 _            *_._.
5.   U--r otj                         Deterne relatiloship
sbproled                          of projet approved to        s5o            m             740
approved         __ _am_low_             .
6.   Total )-t of    Siproject        Detemne SIF's project
s;iprojects      datas           processin  capability    $18 milliontV  $40 mfll t1    8 miltatfo
7.  lb_er of          Sshproject      Determine possible
wbhproJeets with datbase and    bottlenecks fn                  0.6           0.7           0.7
f1nancing        preoswemst      procuronmnt prooe&Iros
conterctwl           -  _ n
of  AprojJ s
__________       _______    _   _   __ _  SW RIO          _______ .       ______ --_    _  ____
.                           al~~~~~~~~~NPERVIS:Ill  
8.  Time span         Supwerfsion     betermine possible
betueen contract databs          bottlenecks In the           10 days        8 days        S days
sitflng and                       sWevisfon or
first                             aiuinfetration
disburemwnt       _    _    _        rtent
9.  Utbr of           Sipervision     Determno SlFs overall
sbproJcts        databs          processing capacity           360            320           S70
started
10. Total cost of    S      isfion    Determine SIF's overatl
ubproJect       databs&e        processing -apacity       *11 milliont'  2 mit2llon1  *4S milionU
s tarted                             __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                  _ _ _ ___    ___ _ _ _ _
11. Percentag  of                     lapr.e  apraisal oost
usproject                        es aate       scs             4 10%           10$         4 10%
contraets
mdified beesse
of cost owcrnms
12. Ditr oamnts    Sqrvfston          Determine executian
for the period   dbtabase;        levels, balance to be    $11 wmllion1  $32  Umilion1  t66 million
adInistration  disbursed A general SIF
database        capacity to disburse in
a gfven time perfod
I csAlstive inaemts.



Page 2 of 2
.~ ~ ~ ~ .
wM&'.E.YuML 9 APRIL9      95    APRIL 96
14. Iler of        l                 1 *SF'
hubprJects n       t &   cqmlty to hnle ts       30         30 
aetuFt      suv*on    current ctSwf
of w VlW!i       l
......~~~~~~ofq  ty. ,                              .        ..... *--,,,, lox . ........
1S. Percent of    jAubrjt    Aure adeua levels
sceJects                 .1 qualit1ty          '20 ZOc 101            4 101
cemitted to   databas    eqiesis en socit        141        181       20X
aSIstace Aprojwts
TARETAING    _
18. Percent of fwds Subproject    Ensurc fts reach    1
comdtted to   datase     poorer omfttes         4 3OX I      30X 01    30
municipsl.tlest
dWttin  frm
In addition, the results of the beet practice studies, the anthropological
studies, and the Impact evaluation studies will be reviewed as part of the
annual reviews. Completion of the following consultancies (Annez 11) will be
monitored:
Evaluation and Completion of HIS bmplementations  April 30-July 31, 1993
Implementation of 018:                               April 30-December 31, 1993
Design and Implementation of MIechanism to
Evaluate Impact of 81P-ina nced Subprojects        September I-December 31,
1993
Beet Practice Studies                                Begin 3 moe  and complete 1
mo. before annual reviews
Evaluation of 8IP Effectiveness                      Begin 6 mos. and complete 3
in Reaching Targets                                mos. before annual reviews
Analysis of Structured Interviews                    Begin 6 moes  and complete 3
mos. before mannul reviews
Analysis of Survey                                   Begin 4 mose  and complete 1
mo* before annual reviews



Page 1 of 2
sUI         DOCUmNS AVAI    in PgonCT 1!
A.    80c   IgMUNW&
A.-1.  GuatKem la-Soial Investnt Strat  Regort sbmitted to the
Consultative Group Meeting, held In Paris on March 16 & 17, 1989,
dated March 2, 1989.
A.2.  GuIte mlPblic sector Expenditure    lv,  ebrua   17, 1989.
A.3. Cgn the World BLek B. a Grassroot Funder i& Guatemala?, Report by
S. AMnA., December 1, 1988.
k4.   or£t Years tn the Altita-no, USAID report, March 1989.
A.S. Guatemala-Social InvestMent Fund 8AR, (Draft) Report No. 8484-¢U,
March 16, 1990.
s.    Health and Nutrition
3.1. Guatem_ala' Health and Nutrition Ssetors An Aienda for Reform and
the Role of the Bank (Draft), T. Casta lda, October 3, 1989.
B.2. Food and Nutrition, report prepared by J. MGCulre, March 2, 1989.
C.   Education
C.1.  Second Basic Education Proiect LIAR0, Report No. 7004-GU, November
4, 1988.
D.   3oafaJViUZ1S
D.1. Tarnetina of Municivalities and Local Revenue Situation, report by
G. Peterson (Consultant), September 25, 1989.
D.2. Princinal Issues Concerni_n SIF, report by G. Peterson, January
26, 1990.
E.   !ateLk n1z
3.1. Rewort on the Water and Sanitation Cgosgnent of the Promosed
Gutemalan Social Investment Pund, by A. Karp (Consultant),
November 18, 1989.
8.2. Report on Water Sussly, by A. Cajina, June 27, 1989.
F.   RuAl Access Roads
V.I.  Report on Road Component of SIP, by C.J. Perrone (Consultant),
August 10, 1989.
G.   Decroe to Create the SIP
0.1. Draft prepared by M. de Viemmn and A. Quilono. Lopez de GAlvez In
Spanish, January 22, 1990.



Page 2 of 2
R.1. IIGO Ezenditure Law, memo of C. 1e14in, September 23, 1988.
1.2. Deveout of NGM  In Guatemala, report by J.J. de St. Atoine
and C. 1e1dia, lbruary 28, 1989.
I.    enfoil Sector 8Jb  prol
I.. 1Pronosced Guldelius for Equity Pinancia for PrdMgct,iv
Acti4   t   , report by R. VoSel, August 17, 1989.
1.2. Th Cooratve, Mvegent   Guatemala, report by Ing. R. Dele6n
VIlagrin and IUS. J.R. Kecobar d. Lefn, December 1988.
1.3. *gntradtlonal Anort Cres in Traditional SmaiTholder
AnrLicuture: Effect. on Productioi. Conaumution. and Nutrition in
Cc tmm"1z, report by J. von Braun, D. Notcbklss, K. Lmbink,
Decber 1967.
J.   5Z4E&±QLMId  9LtUbs
J.1. 1 hlation ad MItorit g     n Guitetan SI3, meo by J. Newman,
January 11, 190.



____________________                                                            IURD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1g    241eS'
GUATEMALA
- fJf$axuco                           SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
GEOGRAPHIC TARGETING
PRIORIJY OF PROJECT IMPLEWNTASION:
PRIORITY A (HIGHEST)   -     MUN'CIPAUTY BOUNDARIES
oRIORIY B                    DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
MEXI COE                                       cPRIORITY C                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
, X-st PRIORlY D
(GU11  f                   G      L JONO PPRORlTY E LOWEST)            Sow.: thins fVccindeEstica
Pocific Ocoag  n '     j9
'(           9)mw'm-,. mu
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-'"; I
BELIZE
17'
MEXICO
a-VP, AwAmkwg mod m&  % m oW
Gulf of
16                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Honduras
4&N
HONDURAS
14  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --I--~~~~~~~~~~~~11
40dJ1
QCEAW sE -                                                       L SALVADOR
OCTOMER 1



N
In
Ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
'...                                    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
* ..° ......
Ses  a;    \Eq,:,M,...
U01|Xi fl                                                               a  U    .
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... .....



I.                                        0@               if' !|W\ 
,  1g.    ;..   ,   i,, ,  j     ........B      t0
: *11:..  .  :.  t. _ -8 
t~~~ e8M;  rxv_wue   
/~~~~1           sf  r < t E    '  >>  8          18rf   
|d    |   <I. l  --N.,,L/                                
''S                                                       O M AS - ~~- 
'X10                           w
j u i t 'i                               W29         'S04



II~~~~~~~~a
< m~~~~~~~~~~
S :gS-|g fi~~-                              S
fi grn   g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
ht,>mS''S1''..,..'s,'"' s   h                                            1    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
........ y  r          \     x  \ ,                                        M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
-'>4.        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...  ..  .\   b3 . A7
-       w        V                                      ,,,,,X.,.,.,;v.,,.^,,, ,,., ........ j S Ex . S. .x ......... . :. a;. ,: J t ...............  . .
|                                    x  t ::  . :   :   .: :.  ::: :: :<: :: .: ........... :::.::: : .. ii.-: ::iSQ / x :::. .:: ......... ......... ............  .   . . .   . .   . .=
x w t { ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ij..  ...  .......     ....2 
I~~~~~~~~~I
l~~~~~



183 24334
GUATEMAtA                                        :g
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT                                    .'
UNPAVED ROADS 4:  
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ..... . .:
MEXICO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MXC
MEXICO .. s i
,...'........... ;''.',''','-- '   :'''"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    't       ,:.'". >   ..........     ..    ...................'..
^ |   >                   ~~PETEN                                      .X
1   v~~~.~
o _ ..  . V -.-, *                                                                         .. i  j..
lIni  '                                                              8 E L   Z E   S  X       , t E jj .Ij
o  0      40 6080I
0  2  0     40     coID t10}S' He.E.. ............. -j->'j--i 
-HUE"UE,  I     ALTA
8 A~~~~~IZ
Maias@                    ____- - -Jt ;)H'--  Vo
Z rMAC                                 Em Ilomeer                     I
SALVADOR                              NaCO:: W.ft_
DqarIment Capital
- ~~t.maunwi Bouzndwhs
NOWBMB 1912



