Page  1
July 29, 1996
Lic. Jose Alejandro Arevalo Alburez
Minister of Public Finance
8a Avenida and 21a Calle
Zona 1
Guatemala, Guatemala
     Re:  GUATEMALA (Social Investment Fund Project)
     Loan No. 3534 GU- Amendment to Loan Agreement
Excellency:
     Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement) dated
September 29,1993 entered into between the Republic of Guatemala
(the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank), as amended.
     Since The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan and the
Borrower entered into a loan agreement dated December 27,1995 to
assist the Borrower in the financing of the Social Investment
Project, the Bank hereby proposes to amend the Loan Agreement as
follows:
     1.   Delete the semicolon at the end of the "Whereas Clause (B)"
and add the following "Whereas Clause (C)" after the "Whereas Clause
(B)":
     "(C) the Borrower has contracted with The Overseas Economic
     Cooperation Fund, Japan (OECF) for a loan (the OECF Loan) in
     an amount of Y3,112,000,000 to assist in the financing of the
     Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
     OECF Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and OECF on
     December 27,1995; and ".
     2.   Paragraph "(c)" of Section 5.01 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
     "(c) (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                    of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Project, including the BICIE Loan
                    or the KfW Loan or the OECF Loan or the right of
                    SIF to have access to such proceeds shall have
                    been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or
                    in part, pursuant to the terms of the BICIE
                    Agreement or the KfW Agreement or the OECF Agree-
                    ment or any other agreement providing a grant or
                    a loan for the Project, as the case may be; or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
                    prior to the agreed maturity thereof; and
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termi-
               nation or prematuring is not caused by the failure of
               the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
               such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
               are available to the Borrower from other sources on
               terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
               of the Borrower under this Agreement.".
     This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts each
of which shall be an original, and shall become effective on the date
on which the Bank has received one fully executed original of such
amendment letter.
Page  2
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing
and dating the two counterparts of this amendment letter. Upon your
confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
Sincerely,
/s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By: /s/ Jose Alejandro Arevalo Alburez
        Authorized Representative
Date:   September 23, 1996
