                                                              I q-~




                                             CONFORMED COPY




                                      CREDIT NUMBER 838 SO




Development Credit Agreement
             (Fourth Port Project)



                   between


         SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC


                     and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




            Dated August 23, 1978
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 838 SO


                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT


     AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1978, between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).

      WHEREAS (A) by a development credit agreement (Detailed Engi-
neering and Accounting Assistance Project) dated March 3, 1969,
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association made to
the Borrower a credit in various currencies equivalent to five
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($550,000) to assist in the financ-
ing of detailed engineering of Mogadishu Port works and the
establishment of commercial account procedures for the Somali
Port Authority, a public agency established and operating under
Law No. 1 of January 7, 1973 of the Borrower (hereinafter called
SPA);

     (B)   by a development credit agreement (Mogadiscio Port
Project) dated March 15, 1973, between the Borrower and the
Association (hereinafter called the 1973 Credit Agreement),  the
Association made to the Borrower a credit in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million nine hundred fifty thousand dollars
($12,950,000)   to assist  in the modernization of the Port of
Mogadishu;

      (C) by a development credit agreement (Mogadiscio Port
Extension Project) dated October 15, 1975, between the Borrower
and the Association (hereinafter called the 1975 Credit Agree-
ment), the Association made to the Borrower a credit in various
currencies equivalent to five million two hundred thousand dollars
($5,200,000) to assist in the expansion of cargo handling facili-
ties at the Port of Mogadishu;

     (D) the Borrower will relend to SPA funds equivalent to
the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and

     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
SPA;

     NOW   THEREFORE    the   parties   hereto   hereby   agree as   follows:
                                 -2-


                                ARTICLE I

                   General Conditions; Definitions


     Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


     Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in    the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


     (a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SPA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;

     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SPA pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;

     (c) "Previous Projects" means the project financed by
the Association under the 1973 Credit Agreement and the project
financed by the Association under the 1975 Credit Agreement;

     (d)  "Advance" means the amount provided by the Association
to the Borrower for the preparation of the Project under an agree-
ment constituted by an exchange of letters between the Borrower
and the Association dated December 21, 1977, and February 10,
1978; and

     (e) "Somali   Shillings"    and   "So.Sh."   mean   the   currency   of
the Borrower.
                              -3-


                           ARTICLE II

                           The Credit


     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.

     (b)  On the date the Development Credit Agreement shall
enter into force and effect, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (3) in the
table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, an amount equiva-
lent to the principal amount withdrawn by the Borrower out of the
Advance, and service charges thereon, outstanding on such date.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Advance
shall be cancelled as of the same date.

     Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
                                -4-


     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1988, and ending May 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
                                                          be one
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.

     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
                                                        of the
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02
General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall, on behalf of SPA, carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.

     (b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,       the
Borrower shall cause SPA to perform in accordance with  the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
                                                              to be
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
                                                                 to
SPA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
be taken any action   which would prevent or  interfere  with  such
performance.
                                                                  to
      (c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
 SPA under a subsidiary loan agreement to  be entered into  between
                                                                 the
 the Borrower and SPA under terms and conditions acceptable to
 Association which shall include, inter    alia,  the  amortization
                                                          per annum
 period of twenty years, interest at the rate of 7-1/2%
 on amounts withdrawn from the subsidiary loan  and the  payment  by
 SPA of any additional service charges payable    pursuant  to  this
 Agreement.

      (d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
 sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the inter-
 ests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
                                -5-


purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

     Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.

     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.

     (b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.

         (b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its    cost and the benefits to be derived from it),    to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)      shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit      the
facilities    and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.

        (c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event    not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.

     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall issue promptly as needed
import licenses, visas, permits and other necessary documents and
take any other action required to facilitate the import by the
contractors and consultants employed for the purposes of the
Project of the goods required for the Project.

     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all  such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Part II of the Project and shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.

                            ARTICLE IV

                          Other Covenants

     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, as and when each of the
facilities included in the Project is completed, deliver the
title   to each such facility to SPA for operation by SPA, such
delivery to be made free and clear of all encumbrances on the
title thereto.

     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable measures to ensure that the execution and operation
of the Project are carried out with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors.
                                -7-


     Section 4.04. Except as     the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:

          (i)   inform the Association of any intention to modify
                its Law No. 58 of 1972 relating to Finances of
                Public Enterprises and Agencies in such manner as
                to affect materially and adversely the ability of
                SPA to meet its obligations under the Project
                Agreement in sufficient time to afford the Associa-
                tion a reasonable opportunity to express its views
                thereon;
         (ii)   promptly provide the Association with copies of all
                regulations or rules relating to the affairs of SPA
                issued by the Ministry of Finance, or any other
                authority having jurisdiction thereon;

        (iii)   ensure that before SPA enters into any planned cen-
                tralized capital investments as defined in Law
                No. 58 of 1972 of the Borrower, the Association is
                informed of such proposed investment in sufficient
                time to enable the Association to express its views
                thereon; and

         (iv)   inform the Association of any intention to modify
                its  Law No. 1 of January 7, 1973, relating to the
                operations of SPA in sufficient time to afford the
                Association a reasonable opportunity to express its
                views thereon.

     Section 4.05. The Borrower undertakes to make the necessary
arrangements to allow SPA to retain sufficient funds from SPA's
annual surplus earnings to meet its debt service requirements.

     Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the pipelines included
in Part II (b) of the Project to be constructed in a timely manner
for the efficient operation of the facilities financed under the
Credit. To this end, the Borrower shall promptly provide all
funds, facilities and resources required for such purpose.

                            ARTICLE V

                    Remedies of the Association

     Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
     (a) SPA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

     (b) Law No. 1 of January 7, 1973, of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in
such a way as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
SPA to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set
forth in the Project Agreement;

     (c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SPA or for the suspension of its operations; and

      (d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that SPA will be able to perform its     obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or the    Subsidiary Loan  Agree-
ment.

     Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:

     (a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and SPA; and

     (b)  any event specified in paragraph   (b)   or (c)   of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and SPA.

     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
                              -9-


                                                     authorized
     (a) that the Project Agreement has been duly
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, SPA and
is legally binding upon SPA in accordance with its    terms; and


     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and SPA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SPA
in accordance with its terms.

     Section 6.03. The date November 21, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV and Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.


                            ARTICLE VII

            Representative of the Borrower; Addresses


     Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
                                                              of
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


     For the Borrower:

          The Minister of Finance
          Government of the Somali
               Democratic Republic
          Mogadishu
          Somali Democratic Republic

           Cable address:

                MINFIN
                Mbgadishu
                                  -10-




     For the Association:

          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                         Telex:

               INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
                                                       64145 (WUI)


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.


                    SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC



                    By /s/   Abdullahi Ahmed Addou
                                           Authorized Representative



                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                    By /s/   W. Wapenhans
                                             Regional Vice President
                                                      Eastern Africa
                                -    11   -




                               SCHEDULE 1

             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                                                            to be
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
                                                           of the
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:


                                      Amount of the
                                     Credit Allocated          % of
                                      (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category                      Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed



(1)   Civil works                         3,500,000      80%
      (excluding
      Part II (b) of
      the Project)

(2)   Consultants'                            600,000    100%
      services

(3)   Repayment of                            500,000    100%
      Advance

(4)   Unallocated                             900,000


                       TOTAL              5,500,000




2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
                                                            of the
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments  for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower,  increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
                                                               the
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
aforementioned policy of the Association.
                              -   12 -


3.   Subject to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, but notwith-
standing the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.

4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.

5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
                               -   13 -


                             SCHEDULE 2

                     Description of the Project


    The Project consists of the following Parts:

Part I:    The construction, equipping and operation of a tanker
           pier in Mogadishu harbour, for the purpose of serving
           crude oil tankers of about 50,000 deadweight tons and
           small products tankers, with:

           (a) a platform for loading and unloading; and

           (b) berthing and mooring platforms connected to on-
               shore facilities by, as appropriate, a causeway
               and/or trestles to support crude oil and petroleum
               products pipelines and a roadway for light trucks.

Part II:   (a) The installation of pipelines within Mogadishu
               port-limits; and

           (b) the completion of the installation             of petroleum
               products pipelines between the said            port and the
               refinery at Gezira.

Part III: The carrying out, in respect of civil works included in
          Part I and wherever applicable, in Part II, of the
          Project, of:

           (a)   hydraulic model tests;

           (b) site investigations;

           (c) detailed engineering;

           (d) preparation of tender documents,          tendering and bid
               evaluation; and

           (e) supervision    of   the    construction   of   civil works.

Part IV:   The carrying out of:

           (a) site investigations;
                          -   14 -


    (b)    detailed engineering; and

    (c)     preparation of tender documents, tendering and bid
            evaluation for the extension of the Mogadishu
          * banana quay by 210 meters for general traffic.




The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1980.
                              -   15   -



                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

    International Competitive Bidding

1.   Civil works financed under the Project (except Parts II (b)
and IV) shall be procured under a single contract awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines. The contract
shall provide that the Borrower may, at his option to be exercised
as early as possible prior to completion of Part I of the Project,
require the relevant contractor to carry out the construction of
the extension to the banana quay provided for under Part IV of the
Project.

2.   The Borrower shall prepare and forward to the Association as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to
the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating to said civil works, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail
and containing such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request; the Association will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the said works.

3.   Bidders for the said works shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.

    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association

1.   The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform
the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed, and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequal-
ification and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Association for its comments before the appli-
cants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
                              -   16   -



2.    (a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.

     (b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its  review, a detailed report, by the con-
sultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement,    on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.

     (c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.

     (d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its  execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first  application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.

3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 5% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
