CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 838 SO
Project Agreement
(Fourth Port Project)
between
INie ATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATI00
and
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY
Dated August 23, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 838 SO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY, a public agency established and operating
under Law No. 1 of 1973 of the Borrower (hereinafter called
SPA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Somali Democratic Republic (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to five million five hundred thousand dollars
($5,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SPA agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are here-
inafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SPA, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to SPA on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SPA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SPA shall assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. SPA shall, not later than December 31, 1978,
employ, and thereafter maintain, in its service, for a period of
at least two years, a duly qualified, experienced and competent
port management expert with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. SPA shall conduct its operations of the along-
side general cargo facilities financed under the Previous Projects
in such a manner as to achieve the operational targets set forth
in, and substantially in accordance with the provisions of, the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. SPA shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of SPA and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.05. SPA shall dily perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SPA shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) SPA shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SPA shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by SPA of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SPA
Section 3.01. SPA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. SPA shall at all times carry on its operations
under qualified a1;nd experienced managerial staff, with sufficient


﻿-3-
supporting staff, in accordance with sound port operating prac-
tices.
Section 3.03. SPA shall adequately maintain the works,
installations and equipment used in SPA's port operations at
Mogadishu and in all other ports under SPA's jurisdiction, and
promptly make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering and port management standards
and practices.
Section 3.04. SPA shall at all times take all steps necessary
to maintain its right to carry on its operations, including the
Project, and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, take all steps necessary to acquire and retain such land,
interests in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and
renew such licenses, consents, franchises and other rights, as may
be necessary or useful for the construction of the Project and
the carrying on of SPA's operations.
Section 3.05. SPA shall prepare a training program for its
staff in consultation with the Association, and shall, not later
than June 1, 1979, or such other date as shal be agreed among the
Borrower, the Association and SPA, commence the implementation of
the said program.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SPA shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SPA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of SPA


﻿-4-
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. SPA shall not undertake, prior to the com-
pletion of the Project, any capital investment (other than planned
centralized capital investments as defined in Law No. 58 of 1972
of the Borrower, investments included in the Project and invest-
ments for normal maintenance and renewal of equipment) estimated
to exceed in cost, in any one fiscal year, six million Somali
Shillings (So.Sh.6,000,000), except after consultation with the
Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Without any limitation upon the provisions
of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, SPA undertakes that it shall
not incur any debt unless its net revenue for the fiscal year
next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ending prior to the date of such incurrence, which-
ever is greater, shall be not less than two times the maximum debt
service requirements for any succeeding year on all its debt,
including the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt
assumed or guaranteed by SPA, except debt incurred
in the ordinary course of business and maturing by
its terms on demand or less than one year after its
incurrence;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date on
which a contract or loan agreement or guarantee
agreement is executed;
(iii) the term "net revenue" means gross operating
revenue of SPA, adjusted to take account of tariffs
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the
entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenue relates, less all operating expenses,
including adequate maintenance, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation,
and interest and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund provisions), interest and other charges on
debt; and


﻿-5-
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency used in the territory of the Borrower debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at
which such other currency is obtainable by SPA, at
the time such valuation is made, for the purposes
of servicing such debt, or if such other currency
is not obtainable, at a rate of exchange acceptable
to the Association.
(b) Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement (Mogadiscio
Port Extension Project) dated October 15, 1975, between the
Association and SPA, is deleted and the provisions of Section 4.04
(a) of this Agreement are substituted therefor.
Section 4.05. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, SPA shall from time to time take all
necessary measures, including but not limited to adjustments in
its tariffs, as shall be required to enable SPA to earn an annual
rate of return of not less than 5% for each year.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating the operat-
ing surplus for that year to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets in operations at
the beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "operating surplus" shall mean the differ-
ence between (A) operating revenue; and (B) operat-
ing and administrative expenses, including adequate
maintenance and depreciation, but excluding inter-
est and other charges on debt and income taxes (if
any); and
(iii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross value of fixed assets in
operation less the accumulated depreciation, both
as valued from time to time in accordance with
sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.06. Subject to the requirements of Section 4.05
hereof, SPA shall continue to take all necessary measures to


﻿-6-
introduce and maintain tariffs of dues and rates, on the following
basis:
(a) dues and rates will be set as far as practicable for
each port individually;
(b) dues and rates will be levied for all ships and goods
using the pirt's facilities and services; and
(c) except as SPA and the Association shall otherwise agree,
dues and rates for services and facilities will be based on, and
cover not less than, the costs of those services and facilities,
and will take into account the desirability of ensuring that
economic benefits (particularly those enjoyed by ships) resulting
from the port investments accrue to the economy of the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SPA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SPA
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address 'as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SPA:
Somali Port Authority
Mogadishu
Somali Democratic Republic
Cable address:
SOMALPORT
Mogadishu
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SPA may be taken or executed by its
President or its General Manager or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing, and SPA shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY
By /s/ Abdullahi Ahmed Addou
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE
Operation                              Target
1.   Availability of port             75% commencing January 1979
operations equipment
2.   Utilization of port              85% commencing January 1979
operations equipment
3.   Gang shift productivity
in tons per eight hours:         1978    1979    1980   1981
(a) Bagged cargo                  105     120     135    150
(b) General cargo                  56      64      72     80
(c) Bananas                       112     128     144   160
4.   Average number of ships'         3 commencing from 1978
hatches worked simultan-
eously


