Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15174-COM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
PILOT AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
December 2, 1996
Agriculture 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (FC)
US$1.00 = FC 375
SDRI.O0 = FC 550
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BDPA             BDPA-SCET AGRI S.A., a consulting firm
CADER            Regional Center for Rural Development (Centre d'appui au developpement rural)
CEFADER          National Center for Rural Development (Centre fdderal d 'appui au ddvel. rural)
CFD              Caisse francaise de developpement
CIP              International Center for Potato Research
DGDR             Directorate for Rural Development (Direction Gdnerale du Developpement Rural)
ESAF             Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP              Gross Domestic Product (Produit national brut)
GOC              Government of the Comoros
ICB              Intemational Competitive Bidding (Appel d'offres international)
IDA              Intemational Development Association (Association pour le developpement international)
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development (Fonds International pour le Developpement
Agricole)
IMF              International Monetary Fund (Fonds Mondtaire International)
INRAPE           Agriculture, Fisheries and Environment Research Institute (Institut de recherche de l'agriculture, de
la peche et de I 'environnement)
IASC             International Acco mting Standards Committee
IATA             Intemational Agency for Tropical Agriculture
MPEPFE           Mlinistry of Production, Livestock, Fisheries, Forestry and Environment (Ministere de la
Production, de I 'Elevage, de la P&he. des Forets et de I 'Environnement)
MERCAP           Macro-Economic Reform and Capacity Building Credit
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation (SUivi et e'valuation)
NGO              Non-governmental Organization (Organisme non-gouvernemental)
NPV              Net Present Value (Valeur actualisee nette)
OCC              Opportunity Cost of Capital (Corit d'opportunite)
PSC              Project Steering Committee
PEP              Public Expenditure Program (Programme des depensespubliques)
PIP              Public Investment Program (Programme d'investissements publics)
RRA              Rapid Rural Appraisal
SAF              Structural Adjustment Facility
SDR              Special Drawing Rights (Droits de tirage spiciarui)
SG               Secretarv General of the MPEPFE (Secrdtaire Gendral du AIPEPFE)
SNAC             National Farners' Union (Syndicat national des agriculteurs Comoriens)
SOE              Statement of Expenditure (Erat de depenses)
TA               Technical Assistance (Assistance technique)
UCCIA            Chamber of Commerce (fnion des Chambres de Commerce, de l 'Industrie et de
I 'Agriculture)
UiNDP            United Nations Development Program (Programme des Nations Unies pour le
Developpement)
Vice President     : Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Director              MNr. Mlichael N. Sarris
Technical Nlanager     Mr. Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader      MNr. Mansur Muhtar



3
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
PILOT AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................................... i
1. INTRODUCTION ............................................................1
A. BACKGROUND AND ECONOMIC SETTING ...........................................................                                           I
B. SECTORAL ASPECTS ...........................................................                                                         3
2. THE PROJECT ...........................................................                                                              5
A. PROJECT RATIONALE, OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ...........................................................                            5
1. Project Rationale .............................................................                                                   5
2. Project Objectives .............................................................                                                  6
3. Project Description .............................................................                                                 6
4. Detailed Features ............................................................. 7
B. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...........................................................                                              9
3. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................... 15
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION ............................................................                                                   1 5
B. PILOT PROJECT AREAS ...........................................................                                                     16
C. IMPLEMENTATION ...........................................................                                                          17
D. ACCOUNTrNG AND AUDITING ...........................................................                                                 18
E. PROGRAMMING, MONITORING, EVALUATION, REPORTING ...................................                            ........................ 18
F. SUPERVISION PLAN ...........................................................                                                        19
G. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN ...........................................................                                                     19
H. INDICATORS FOR MONITORING PERFORMANCE ...........................................................                                  20
4. THE BANK GROUP'S ROLE .......................                                                                                       20
A. LESSONS FROM  IDA'S INVOLVEMENT IN THE COMOROS' AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .................................. 20
1. RA7ToNALE FOR IDA INvOLVEMENT .............................................................. 21
B. DONOR COORDINATION .................                                .                                                              22



4
5. PROJECT IMPACT ASSUMPTIONS, FINANCIAL/ECONOMIC ANALYSIS,
SUSTAINABILITY  AND RISK  ASSESSMENT ........................................................................              22
A. IMPACT ON AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIoN ......................................                                                22
B. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT ........................................................................... 23
C. IMPACT ON POPULATION, INCOME AND POVERTY ..................................................................................... 25
D. IMPACT ON EMPLOYMENT ..............................................................................................     26
E. IMPACT ON PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ..............................................................................................  26
F. ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY ..............................................................................................   27
G. SUSTAINABILITY ............................................................................................... 27
H. RISK ASSESSMENT ..............................................................................................          27
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER, CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
AND RECOMMENDATION ........................................................................                                28
ANNEXES
1. LOGICAL FRAMEWORK FOR PROJECT DESIGN
2. SUMMARY COST TABLES
3. SCHEDULE OF MAJOR PROCUREMENT ACTION
4. SCHEDULE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
5. SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
6. SUPERVISION INPUT
7. IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE
8. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
9. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS.
This report is based on the fndings of an appraisal mission undertaken in September 1995 by a team
comprising Messrs. Charles Bolduc (AF3AE, Task Manager) and Jacques Kozub (economist, consultant).
A pre-appraisal mission carried out in May 1995 included Charles Bolduc (Task Manager), Claude Heimo
(Natural Resources Specialist) and Connie Luff (Financial Analyst). Pisei Eap, Christos Kostopoulos, and
Mansur Muhtar also contributed to this report. Peer review was carried out by Messrs. Narendra Sharna
(AFTES) and Stephen Mink (MNINE). The Country Director for the Comoros is Michael Sarris.



ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
PILOT AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
A.    CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Implementing Agency: Ministry  of Production, Livestock, Fisheries, Forestry  and
Environment (MPEPFE)
Beneficiaries:        Ministry  of Production, Livestock, Fisheries, Forestry  and
Environment (MPEPFE) and small farmers
Poverty:              Not applicable
Credit Amount:        SDR 1.1 million (US$1.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms, with 10-year grace period and 40 years to
maturity
Financing Plan:       See para. 2.14-2.16
Net Present Value:    positive at 15% OCC
Staff Appraisal Report: 15174-COM
Project Identification
Number:               604



ii
Estimated Project Costs a\
US$ thousand
Local   Foreign    Total
Agricultural Services                                 642.3      693.2   1,335.5
Planning and Monitoring Support                        70.5      245.7    316.2
Implementation Support                                187.2      122.6    309.8
Project Preparation                                  400.0       200.      60.Q
Base Cost                                           1,300.0    1,261.5  2,561.5
Physical Contingencies                                 47.2       67.4    114.6
Price Contingencies                                    78.9       482-    127.1
Total Project Costs                                 1,426.1    1,377.1   2,803.2
al Excludes taxes and duties
Proposed Project Financing
US$ thousand      Percent
IDA Proposed Credit    1,600.1             57.1
IFAD                     994.7             35.5
Government               2084               74
Total                  2,803.2            100.0
Estimated IDA and IFAD Disbursements
US$ thousand
FY97       FY98       FY99        FY00
IDA   PPF Reimbursement            600.0
Annual                        60.0       220.0      240.0      480.1
Cumulative                   660.0       880.0    1,120.0    1,600.1
Percentage (a)                   6         22          24         48
IFAD Annual                         59.7      218.8       238.7      477.5
Cumulative                    59.7       278.5      517.2      994.7
Percentage (a)                   6         22          24         48
(a) annual as % of fimal cumulative less PPF (US$ 1,000.1).
(b) annual as % of final cumulative.



ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
PILOT AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Government of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros (GOC) has requested
IDA's assistance to help restore agricultural growth. The Government recognizes that a long
term commitment is needed to achieve this goal and that innovative approaches must be sought
to address the most binding constraints it faces with regard to agricultural development. This
Pilot Project is proposed to support the first steps in this long-term process that is being
embarked upon by Government. It will both seek to address the core constraints to agricultural
development while serving as a vehicle for developing and testing innovative but viable
solutions that could be adopted on a broader scale during a second phase. The total cost of the
proposed Pilot Agricultural Services Project is estimated at about US$2.8 million equivalent, net
of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange content of US$1.4 million. IDA will finance
US$1.6 million of total project costs, while IFAD and the GOC will contribute US$1.0 million
and US$0.2 million respectively.
1.2    The project is derived from the GOC's Agricultural Sector Strategy ratified by the
country's Federal Assembly in June 1994. A significant basis for the project comes from the
results of a broad-based systematic consultation carried out with farmers, agricultural
professionals and Government officials in the first half of 1995 during the preparation phase.
A.    BACKGROUND AND ECONOMIC SETTING
1.3    General Background. The Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros is an Indian Ocean
archipelago, inhabited by a largely homogeneous Islamic population of about 498,000 and a
GNP per capita of US$ 490 in 1995. The economy is predominantly rural, and highly dependent
on external assistance which averaged about US$118 per capita per annum over 1989-95.
Agriculture accounts for 40 percent of GDP and provides the livelihood of 70-80 percent of the
people and about 50 percent of total export earnings, with activities concentrated on the
production of food crops as well as the three main export commodities (vanilla, cloves and
perfiune essence). Services, mostly commerce and public administration, contribute about 49
percent of GDP, while construction and manufacturing represent around 11 percent. The
industrial sector is limited to the processing of export crops and a few consumer goods supplying
the domestic market. Tourism has started to develop, and shows promising growth potential.
1.4    The Comoros' social standards compare favorably with the average for sub-Saharan
Africa. Life expectancy at birth is 54 years and the infant mortality rate is 95 per thousand.
Between 1975 and 1995, primary school enrollment increased from 46 percent to 75 percent of
the school-age group. However, high population growth averaging about 2.7 percent a year has



2
put increasing pressure on basic social services, land use and the fragile ecosystem. Of the
islands in the archipelago, Anjouan with a population of 496 inhabitants per square kilometer is
the most densely populated. Grande Comore, the largest island, has a population density of
253/sq. km. and Moheli, the smallest one, has 128 inhabitants/sq. km.
1.5    Economic Setting.  Since independence in 1975 the country has experienced
considerable economic change in trying to adjust its economy to the external environment.
Following a decade of growth bubble generated by externally-financed infrastructure projects,
real GDP slowed significantly from an annual average of 6 percent in the early 1980s to 0.6
percent over 1985-95. This led to a decline in real per capita income by an annual average of
about 2 percent during the past decade, and the emergence of chronic financial problems in the
late 1980s.  The decline in economic performance is a manifestation of the country's
developmental constraints, which include a narrow export base, weak institutional capacity
exacerbated by poor economic management, as well as an unfavorable private sector
environment. To address its macroeconomic imbalances and remove some of the structural
constraints to growth, the government launched an adjustment program in 1991.
1.6    The Adjustment Program. The adjustment program made considerable progress in
liberalizing imports and removing price controls on several commodities. It also improved the
environment for private sector activity and made some progress in reducing the fiscal burden
arising from the parastatal sector. These led to major improvements in budgetary as well as
external current account deficits in 1992-93. During that period, there was also a strong
economic recovery, accounted for mainly by the improved performance of agriculture and
manufacturing.
1.7   In January 1994, the Comorian Franc was devalued by 33 percent in foreign currency, in
concert with the 50 percent devaluation that was effected by other CFA countries. The
economy's response to this devaluation was mixed. Slow down of economic activities in trade
and agriculture was responsible for a real GDP decline averaging 2.3 percent a year in 1994-95.
Tourism growth had some compensatory effect in 1994, with tourist arrivals registering a 20
percent increase, but this was dampened by the coup in September 1995. Exports performance
for traditional commodities was poor because of the depressed market of vanilla and cloves
(resulting in a price collapse), even though new export products, such as new varieties of
perfume essence and extracts, were starting to develop. With major shortfalls in revenues and an
increase in current expenditures, the country's fiscal performance in 1994 and 1995 was weak.
By end 1995, salary arrears for civil servants accumulated up to six months and external arrears
reached $40 million. The inflation rate rose by some 20 percent in 1994 but stabilized at about 7
percent in 1995. In 1996, real GDP is expected to grow by about 2 percent as tourism has picked
up and the private sector has started to regain confidence after the March elections. The rate of
inflation is estimated to drop to 5 percent as prices have stabilized. However, public finances
seem to remain difficult.
1.8   Economic reformns in Comoros have been complicated by the parallel efforts at
introducing political reforms.  The country's political landscape has been historically
characterized by turbulence associated with attempts to reconcile modern governance with
ancestral traditions. The latest phase of political change was initiated in 1990 with reforms aimed
at bringing the country from one party rule to representative government. A multiparty
Constitution was approved by referendum in June 1992. Since that time, however, the political



3
situation has remained fragile, given the recent history of frequent changes in government and
several coup attempts, the latest of which was in September 1995.
1.9    Presidential elections held in March 1996 represent a major landmark in the country's
political transition process, and it is anticipated that this will usher in a period of stability. The
prospects for 1996 are more positive and optimistic, with the economy expected to recover
mildly by about 2 percent as the private sector starts to regain confidence after the March
elections. New private investments are forthcoming in the hotel expansion, fishing and small
manufacturing activities (soft drink). The new government has recognized the need for the
country to improve its economic management and performance, and has started to take measures
to improve budgetary revenues and cut expenditures, as well as create a more conducive
environment for private sector investment through adoption of a comprehensive privatization
program  for the public enterprises. The devaluation of January 1994 has brought some
improvement in the country's competitiveness, and continued membership of the Comoros in the
Franc zone will provide a degree of stability based on prudent monetary policy. However,
internal adjustment needs to be continued through compression of public expenditure and of the
real cost of services and labor. The deepening of tax reforms is also needed to remove tax-
induced distortions and strengthen government revenue base. The new government is preparing
a second adjustment program to support these reforms as well as consolidate the gains from the
earlier adjustment efforts and has requested support from the Bank and the IMF. A Structural
Adjustment Credit and an IMF ESAF are being prepared for Board consideration in the first half
of FY98.
B.    SECTORAL ASPECTS
1.10   The Agricultural Sector. Because of its predominance in the economy, the agricultural
sector will likely remain the foundation of the Comoros' growth in the foreseeable future.
Furthermore, the country possessed an unrealized potential for further growth. In addition to a
favorable climate and known capacity to produce a variety of crops, the densely-concentrated
patterns of rural population favor group and association development. The country's economic
regime is amenable to the development of a market economy, despite its frailties; and there is a
reservoir of underutilized technical knowledge and experience, within and outside the civil
service, waiting to be tapped.
1.11   Policy FrameworkL The utilization of Comoros agricultural potential has been stifled by
several policy, structural and institutional factors. On the policy front, distortions, including
unfavorable fiscal/tariff regimes (i.e. high import duties on inputs, taxes on inter-island trade),
and a currency regime that favored imports, resulted in a negative incentive structure for the
agricultural sector. Although most of these distortions have been or are in the process of being
corrected through the adjustment program which, for the time being, constitutes the
Government's main instrument to address macro-economic issues, supply response has been
slow due to the persistence of structural and institutional constraints.
Most of these distortions have been or are in the process of being corrected through the adjustment
program which, for the time being, constitutes the Government's main instrument to address macro-
economic issues.



4
1.12   Structural and  Institutional Frameworl    A  key  constraint to  agricultural
development, militating against a substantive response to the 1994 devaluation, relates to the
inadequacy of the agricultural services delivery system. As corroborated by the results of
extensive consultations conducted in the course of project preparation, the current system of
extension as delivered by MPEPFE is unproven. The system is also unresponsive to beneficiary
concerns/needs.  As regards research, INRAPE, the agency charged with the country's
agricultural research, has only very limited capacity and lacks both human and material
resources. The only research activity carried in the recent past out has been through a small
French-financed project, which has been able to study with good results the various farming
2
systems of the country . Some further support will be provided through projects currently
financed by the European Union .
1.13   The Ministry of Agricultural Production, Livestock, Fisheries, Forestry and
Environment (MPEPFE). The reorganization and downsizing of the MPEPFE in 1993 and
1994, which was part of the GOC's structural adjustment efforts, have not helped improve the
capacity of the Ministry, particularly in relation to its ability to plan, monitor and execute its
activities. The MPEPFE underwent a considerable reduction in its personnel from over 900 in
the 1980s to 133 positions at present, as part of the GOC's structural adjustment efforts. While
this reduction affected mostly staff under contract, it included some experienced staff in the
Ministry's central services who opted for early retirement. This resulted in the significant
weakening of the planning and monitoring capacity of MPEPFE, a function which will remain at
the core of the Government's newly defined mission with respect to the agricultural sector.
While the role of the private sector as investor is expected to increase over time, donor-financed
investments in agriculture are likely to remain important in the Comoros for the foreseeable
future, requiring institutional capacity for planning and monitoring the public expenditure
program in the sector. In addition, frequent changes at the ministerial and often senior levels at
the MPEPFE have seriously weakened the decision-making process at the Ministry and
contributed to the drop in confidence in the rural areas toward the Ministry staff in the field.
1.14   Other agricultural development constraints include the prevalence of complex land
tenure arrangements, ill-suited in the current socio-economic context, insufficient rural financing
services, and inadequate infrastructure in the more remote areas. The problems associated with
the land tenure system are diverse and stem in part from the co-existence of three legal systems
(traditional, Islamic and colonial) and a variety of traditions affecting the inheritance of land.
The situation is further complicated by: (a) the lack of specialized facilities or institutions to
handle land tenure issues and formulate policy; (b) the lack of an operationally simple land
titling or registration system; (c) the absence of formal leasing agreements between landlords
and tenants; and (d) a demonstrated difficulty in enforcing property rights against illegal
occupation of land (squatters). As part of its 1994 agricultural strategy, the Government has
identified a number of measures to create a modern land tenure regime for the country, including
the establishment of a new institutional framework. In addition, the Government, as part of its
overall adjustment strategy, has established a Law Reforn Commission4 to review all existing
2   The information collected, combined with that of the BDPA's sector work of 1991 and the diagnostic
survey of 1995 (Cf. Supplementary Annex 2 to the Staff Appraisal Report), provided the key data for
this project's economic analysis.
3   "Projet Cultures vivrieres" and "Projet Cultures de rente".
4 An activity supported by the IDA-financed Small Enterprise Development Project (Cr. 2632-KM).



5
statutes, including those pertaining to ownership of land. This task is on-going and there is a
strong likelihood that, in the near future, work will be needed to ensure consistency between the
institutional framework proposed as part of the agricultural strategy and the conclusions of the
Law Review Commission.
1.15   On rural credit, the Comoros do not have a formal rural finance institution and a specific
policy and legislation governing rural finance. Although rural credit facilities are currently being
provided by two donor-assisted projects (the SANDUK project, financed by the CFD, and the
IFAD-financed Appui aux Initiatives economiques de base). The five savings and credit
facilities created during a recently completed FAO project are facing recovery delays and are not
likely to be sustainable.  The overall situation is characteristic of project-initiated credit
initiatives, reflecting the absence of specific policy and legislation governing rural finance
which leads to project designs that are contradictory and counterproductive. A national seminar,
to review the activities in the sub-sector, was held in early 1996, the recommendations from
which are expected to form the basis for needed policies and strategy.
1.16   To adequately respond to the challenges of agricultural development, the Government
has adopted an agricultural strategy in 1994, whose principal objectives are: (a) to enhance rural
incomes as a means of alleviating rural poverty and promoting food security; (b) to expand and
diversify agricultural exports as well as broaden outlets for domestically-produced, non-traded
food products; (c) to promote a self-sustainable, private-sector led agricultural development; and
(d) to facilitate the viable and environmentally-sustainable utilization of natural resources. In the
work leading to the formulation of its agricultural strategy, the Government has recognized the
ineffectiveness of the dirigiste or top-down approach which characterized, up to recently, the
relationship between the field staff and farmers . As a result, the decision has been made to
adopt a more interactive, or participatory approach, in dealing with the farm population. This
implies that, henceforth, active and constant consultation and exchanges will take place between
the administration and its agents and the rural population, in order to define, formulate and
implement developmental actions.
2. THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT RATIONALE, OBJECTIVES AND DEscRIpTIoN
1.    Project Rationale
2.1    The achievement of the Government's objectives for its agricultural sector requires (a) a
long-term commitment and engagement to addressing the country's most binding constraints to
agricultural productivity, while (b) seeking innovative approaches that stimulate private sector
This situation was further confinned in the course of the surveys carried out in the proposed Pilot
Project's preparation.



6
involvement in the delivery of agricultural services to benefit small-scale farmers. To achieve
these objectives, Government is continuing to intensify efforts geared towards restoring
competitiveness of the agricultural sector (and of other productive sectors) through deepening
and consolidation of economic reforms supported by the adjustment program. The government
has also pledged to build a cost-effective agricultural service delivery system as well as
strengthen its institutional capacity for sector planning and monitoring.  To support the
improvement of the legal framework, the government has established a Law Reform
Commission to review, inter alia, existing statutes pertaining to ownership of land. A national
seminar on rural finance was also held early in 1996 to obtain a better appreciation of the issues
in this domain. The proposed Pilot Agricultural Services Project, is aimed at supporting
Government's efforts towards refining, fine-tuning and implementing certain aspects of its
agricultural development strategy.
2.     Project Objectives
2.2    The specific objectives of the project will be twofold:
(a) to produce through actual testing on the ground, replicable service systema that, if
successful, could be established nation-wide, with full collaboration from the Government's
partners in the donor community. The service systems to be tested include (i) a participation-
based and results-oriented extension service, operable by either the private or public sector; and
(ii) the use of private sector associations and the media to collect and relay market- and farm-
related information, the cost of which could eventually be covered through advertising (of which
there is still very little over the country's few communications media).
(b) to support the strengthening of the country's capacity to implement its agricultural
strategy through (i) the re-orienting and re-focusing of INRAPE's role as a collector and
provider of technical information to extension agents and end-users, and a coordinator and
provider of training services in the sector; and (ii) the improvement of MPEPFE's capacity for
sector planning, monitoring and coordination, as well as (iii) the formulation of sub-sectoral
policies and strategies to ameliorate rural finance and land tenure inadequacies.
3.     Project Description
2.3    The proposed Pilot Project, to be implemented over a three-year period, will focus on
improving agricultural services and strengthening institutional capacity in planning and
monitoring the activities in the sector.
2.4    Agricultural services (US$1.3 million). The principal constraints to be addressed under
this component will be the difficulties farmers experience in accessing relevant and timely
information about crop-related technology, soil conservation and markets and in using it to their
advantage.  Based on the stated preferences of farmers, the project will (i) mainstream
participation and client consultation in the delivery of efficient and cost-effective agricultural
services; within this context, it will (ii) test the performance and effectiveness of private
extension contractors working directly with farmers, against the existing public sector services;
(iii) re-orient the country's "research" facility towards the collection, evaluation and propagation
of technological information and making this information more easily accessible to all users; and
(iv) support the development of groups and associations and enhance communications through
national media on agriculture techniques and market related issues.



7
2.5    Planning and Monitoring Support (US$0.3 million). The constraints to be addressed
through this component will include: the weaknesses of the MPEPFE in the areas of planning,
monitoring, sectoral policy formulation and general internal management. Planning and
monitoring remain at the core of the Government's newly defined mission with respect to the
agricultural sector. The government will continue to play a significant role in the preparation of
the public expenditure program and coordination of investments in the agriculture sector,
particularly those financed by external assistance. The quality and impact of these will depend
largely on planning and monitoring skills within the Ministry. The project will, therefore, focus
its activities in strengthening these skills and support the preparation of a suitable follow-on
operation to the pilot, if warranted. In addition, it will also support studies and reflections aimed
at reformulating rural credit and land tenure policies.
4.     Detailed Features6
2.6    Agricultural Services. This component will include: (a) testing private sector delivery
of extension services; (b) converting the country's research establishment into a
depository/clearing house of agricultural technical information adapted to Comorian conditions;
and (c) improving access to information through training, through the media and support to
existing farmer organizations.
2.7    Agricultural Extension. The objective of this sub-component will be to test the delivery
of extension advice to farmers through private contractors (NGOs, individuals, groups,
specialized firms, etc.) selected by tender and operating under fixed-term contracts. The test will
be based on the comparative evaluation, carried out by independent local consultants, of the
performance of private contractors delivering extension services against that of existing public
sector extension workers operating in separate villages. Selection of extension contractors and
monitoring consultants, and review of the performance evaluation will be done jointly by the
Government and Project Village Committees (PVC - para 3.4) representing the serviced farmers;
similar committees will be established in the villages covered by the public sector workers. The
appraisal mission has ascertained that there are qualified private sector individuals who will bid
for this contract.
2.8    The project will finance the material investment costs and recurrent expenditures
connected with the pilot extension activities. The fees of the private contractors selected on the
basis of competitive bidding will be financed by the project. The salaries of the public sector
workers will continue to be paid out of MPEPFE's budget. Equivalent operating resources and
facilities will be given to both groups. Cost estimates of the private contractors have been
calculated on the basis of three teams totaling eight individuals operating over an area covering a
total of 12 or 13 villages. The public sector teams will involve a similar number of staff and
villages. The financial provision for this activity will include contractual fees for the extension
contractors, transport, office support and training for both private contractors and public sector
workers. Resources will also be provided for vehicles and related operating costs for monitoring
activities.
6   Implementation arrangements are given in Chapter 4.



8
2.9    Technical support on agriculture related issues and message content, as well as training,
will be provided by INRAPE to both private and public sector workers. Extension messages will
initially focus on proven existing themes, including soil conservation, fertility restoration, plant
protection, mixed farming8, establishment of live hedges9 and agro-forestry, as well as the
marketing of produce. Fertilizers and other inputs are discussed in para 5.2 . Criteria on which
to measure the performance of the extension workers will be based on the numbers of farmers
participating and adopting recommended themes, on actual production data, intended for both
consumption and market, on yield and income improvements, on utilization of inputs, etc. Data
will be collected systematically by the independent monitoring team. The concept of two
extension systems (public sector vs private sector) competing for "survival" should provide a
dynamic environment in which farmers will be the foremost beneficiaries. The experiment is not
intended to result in the elimination of the public sector extension service but to install an
efficient and cost effective service. Hence, the public sector extension workers will be retained
only in the areas where their performance is superior and also in areas not likely to be serviced
by the private sector.
2.10   Research.  To clarify INRAPE's role in the context of a significantly downsized
MPEPFE, a specialized agency 0 will be recruited to help the Institute develop a Master Plan
which will define its goals and appropriate organizational arrangements for the next five to ten
years. The plan will take into account the Government's constrained resources, the farmers'
expressed needs and the potential for the public extension service to be transferred to the private
sector. WNRAPE will continue to provide farmers (both directly and through extension) and
others with a ready access to agricultural information, especially concerning crops and other
products for which the Comoros has a comparative advantage. In this capacity, INRAPE will
collect, evaluate and re-package information in a usable form for extension agents, farmers and
other users undertaking: (a) the strengthening of its documentation center; (b) the repatriation of
information collected previously by foreign research institutes; (c) the production of technical
papers on all crops that can be grown in the country; (d) the creation of a digest of all research
findings; and (e) the production of an extension manual intended for both farmers and extension
agents. The project will finance the above activities and help establish scientific relationships
with other countries of the Indian Ocean region. It will also strengthen INRAPE's capacity to
provide training both to its staff and to others. In response to a specific request by MPEPFE at
appraisal, the project will finance crop protection activities, conducted by INRAPE, aimed, inter
alia, at combating leaf spot (cercospora cajani), a widespread disease in the Comoros affecting
both banana and pigeon pea stands.
2.11   Communications and Markets.  This sub-component will help finance training in
participatory approach techniques of members of groups and associations, extension contractors
and public sector agricultural staff. An external consultant will be recruited to finish the
training, started at preparation, of a pool of MPEPFE staff who in turn will train other nationals
in these techniques. The project will support the development of local capacity for gathering and
analyzing market information and disseminating it to farmers and others through the national
8   Association agriculture-elevage.
9   Embocagement.
10 Such as, but not limited to, the Hague-based ISNAR (International Service for National Agricultural
Research).



9
media. This experiment will be undertaken under contract between the MPEPFE and the
agricultural section of the Chamber of Commerce for Industry and Agriculture, which will
coordinate the activity. Data will be collected through the small but dynamic National Farmers'
Union (SNAC) and analyzed and prepared for broadcasting by the Chamber of Commerce with
the support of a local firm specialized in the preparation of radio programs. The project will
finance: (a) training in the collection, analysis and preparation of data for market reports; (b)
organization of information gathering; (c) support to media production groups for preparing
market information programs; and (d) monitoring of results (through a private facility as for the
extension experiment). The possibility of generating advertising revenues from farm broadcasts
will be investigated by the monitoring consultants working in collaboration with the participants
in this experiment.
2.12   Planning and Monitoring Support. This component will strengthen the MPEPFE's
capacity to: (i) implement the 1994 agriculture strategy and prepare the public expenditure
programs in the agriculture sector as well as sector development plans for each of the islands of
the archipelago; (ii) coordinate, monitor and evaluate implementation of sector projects and
activities; and (iii) carry out sector-wide studies. To that end, the project will support the
Planning Division operating under the Secretary-General, the Ministry's coordinating authority,
providing for: computer and office equipment; training of Planning Division staff; and sector
specific studies, including project harmonization . The studies that the project will support will
include: (i) a rural finance study, drawing on the experience of ongoing activities and the
workshop held in the first half of 1996 (para 1.15), to formulate a nationwide policy for the sub-
sector as well as an action plan for reforms and integration into the national financial system; (ii)
a land tenure feasibility study to reconcile the conclusions of the Law Reform Commission and
the approaches formulated in the agricultural strategy; and (iii) a detailed agricultural baseline
study in the project areas to study agricultural productivity to determine, inter alia, the
implications, if any, on producer behavior of the country's current macro-economic (including
exchange rate) policies. The project will also finance office equipment and light vehicles to
replace the run-down equipment and transport at central regional headquarters of the Agriculture
Department of the Ministry; and operating resources for project-funded equipment.
B.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
2.13   Project Costs. The project will be implemented over a three year period. Total project
costs, net of taxes but including preparation costs, price and physical contingencies, are
estimated at US$2.8 million (FC 1009.1 million) of which 50 percent is estimated to be foreign
exchange costs. Base costs are estimated at US$2.6 million equivalent and contingencies
amount to US$0.24 million equivalent (9.4 percent of base costs). Project costs by component
are summarized in Table 2.1 below and detailed cost tables by year and by component are
provided in Annex 2 of this report and Annex I of the Supplementary Annexes. Unit costs are
based on early 1995 prices.
I I To bring existing projects in line with the Government's strategy (para 3.16).



10
Table 2.1                    Estimated Project Costs a\
US$ thousand
Local    Foreign     Total
Agricultural Services                                  642.3       693.2   1,335.5
Planning and Monitoring Support                          70.5      245.7    316.2
Implementation Support                                  187.2      122.6    309.8
Project Preparation                                    400.0       2MU.0   .60Q0
Base Cost                                             1,300.0     1,261.5   2,561.5
Physical Contingencies                                  47.2        67.4    114.6
Price Contingencies                  78.9                            L27   1
Total Project Costs                                   1,426.1     1,377.1   2,803.2
a/ Excludes taxes and duties
2.14   Financing. IDA will finance US$1.6 million or 57 percent of total costs estimated at
US$2.8 million. IFAD will contribute about US$1.0 million, or 36 percent, and the Government
about US$0.2 million, or 7 percent, toward project financing. The proposed IDA Credit will
finance 31 percent of investment costs, including civil works, equipment and vehicles, technical
assistance and training. The Credit will also fund the cost of 14 percent of incremental operating
expenses, not including salaries.
2.15   IFAD will provide US$1.0 million equivalent or 36 percent of investment costs,
including equipment, technical assistance, training and studies. IFAD will also finance the cost
of 10 percent of incremental operating expenses, not including salaries. IFAD funding will be
directed toward project activities that reflect most closely that institution's concern with the
creation of opportunities for the rural poor to participate in development. Thus IFAD's
participation will be earmarked to finance the following activities: (a) the extension sub-
component; (b) workshops for INRAPE staff to prepare the research master plan; (c) the
production of a manual for end users of agricultural technology; (d) training in the participatory
approach; (e) training of the staff of the national farmers' association; (f) the land tenure and
rural finance studies; and (g) training of Planning Division staff. In addition to its contribution
toward project financing, IFAD will finance, through a separate grant amounting to about
12
US$40,000, a project launching workshop to take place at the time its loan becomes effective
One of the conditions of effectiveness of the IDA Credit will be that all effectiveness
conditions of the IFAD loan, except that relating to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit, will
be fulfilled (para. 6.3)
2.16   The Government will contribute some US$0.2 million toward project costs or close to 7
percent of the total costs. Government funds will be used to meet local training costs and the
salaries of the project's coordination staff. The financing plan is presented in Table 2.2.
12 Neither the cost of this workshop nor the grant to finance it have been included in project costs and
financing plan.



11
Table 2.2
Proposed Project Financing
US$ thousand      Percent
IDA Proposed Credit     1,600.1            57.1
IFAD                     994.7             35.5
Government               2084               IA
Total                  2,803.2            100.0
2.17   Government Counterpart Funding. The Government's total counterpart contribution
of US$208,000 equivalent for the three years of the project will finance the cost of training
workshops (US$44,000) and of staff salaries and social charges of the coordination unit
(US$164,000)". The funding resources for these expenditures will come from MPEPFE's
investment budget. Existing MPEPFE staff from DGDR, INRAPE and the Planning Division
will be used for implementation, precluding the need for incremental salary costs in the
14
Ministry's recurrent budget . The total 1996 budget for the MPEPFE  amounts to US$7.9
million equivalent, representing US$7.1 million for investment expenditures and US$0.8 million
for recurrent expenditures. Nearly 90 percent of the investment budget (covering 13 projects) is
expected to be covered by external grants and loans.
2.18   The rate of project spending is expected to average US$0.7 million per year over the
project period. Some 90 percent of this amount will be covered by the IDA Credit and IFAD
Loan, leaving the remainder, or about US$70,000 per year, to be covered from MPEPFE's
investment budget (the amount represents about 1% of the current investment budget). This
would not appear to be an unbearable amount were it not for the Government's history of fiscal
shortfalls and its frequent inability to meet its obligations on time (e.g. debt service; civil servant
and teachers' salaries). Assurances were obtained at negotiations of the IDA Credit that the
Govemment had budgeted its contribution to the project in the 1997 investment budget.
2.19   Procurement.  The main project elements, their estimated costs and methods of
procurement are summarized in Table 2.3. The proposed timetable for the procurement of major
goods and services is included in Annex 3. Project procurement will be the responsibility of the
office of the project's national coordinator (para 3.1) which was ascertained at appraisal to have
the necessary knowledge and experience for the task.
13  See p. 8-1 of Annex 3 (Cost Tables). Staff include the Coordinator, one secretary, one accounts clerk
and 5 miscellanous support staff.
14  Private sector extension and other contract workers fnanced by the project will be included in the
MPEPFE's investment budget.



12
Table 2.3                  Summary of Proposed Procurement Methods*
(US$ thousand)
I.C.B.              Other               N.B.F.               Total
Civil Works                                      9.4                                     9.4
_________________                   ~~~~~  ~    ~~~(9.4)  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __(9.4)
Equipment                  126.5                42.3                                    168.8
(83.2)              (42.3)                                  (125.5)
[43.3]                                                      [43.31
Furniture                                       14.5                                    14.5
(11.2)                                 (11.2)
13.3]       t__  _ _ _ _ _ _ _          3.3]
Vehicles                   137.0                                                        137.0
(99.7)                                                      (99.7)
[37.3]                           __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _[7.3]
Consultants                                    1028.8                                  1028.8
(384.9)                                (384.9)
[643.9]                                [643.9]
Training                                        94.7                43.6                138.3
(61.2)                                 (61.2)
[33.5]                                 [33.5]
(43.6)              (43.6)
Operating Costs                                 541.6              164.8                706.4
(308.3)                                (308.3)
[233.31                                [233.3]
(164.8)             (164.8)
Total                      263.6               1731.2              208.4               2203.2
(182.8)             (817.3)                                 (1000.1)
[80.8]              [913.9]                                [994.7]
._________________  {___________________   __________________  (208.4)  (208.4)
* Project period procurement only. Does not include project preparation procurement financed by PPF.
Numbers in bracket represent: (...) IDA funding; [...] IFAD joint fmnancing; {...} Govt. funding.
2.20    Goods and Works. (US$0.87 million). Goods, including vehicles, motorcycles, office
equipment and materials, amounting to about US$264,000, will be grouped into packages
costing more than US$50,000 equivalent and procured under ICB procedures, in accordance
with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995).
The same Guidelines will be applied for the procurement of Goods to be financed by IFAD
funds. Bidding documents for such contracts should be sent to IDA for prior review and non-
objection. Items, or groups of items, such as small furniture and field tools, estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of US$20,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of about US$54,000,
will be purchased on the basis of price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers in
accordance with local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. Specialized equipment up to an
aggregate amount of about US$3,000 will be purchased on the basis of international shopping
procedures acceptable to IDA. As far as possible, maintenance and operating materials under
"operating costs", will be procured also in accordance with national shopping procedures.
Procurement will be spread over the three years of the project. Details are included as Annex 1
in the Supplementary Annexes to this report. Minor civil works to rehabilitate the research
library, estimated to cost altogether $9,400, will be procured on the basis of price quotations
from local contractors in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.21    Consultant Services and Training (US$1.1 million). Short term consultants (including
auditors, extension contractors and external trainers) to be hired under the project will be
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). The same Guidelines will



13
be applied for the procurement of consultants to be financed by IFAD funds. No external long
term consultants are envisaged for financing under the Credit or the IFAD loan. A breakdown of
types and costs of technical assistance is at Annex 4 of this report.
2.22   Review of Procurement. Prior review by IDA will be carried out in accordance with
Appendix 1 of the Guidelines referred to in para 2.20. More specifically, goods contracts above
US$50,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review, which will cover about 80% of IDA financed
procurement. In the case of consultants, prior review by IDA will be required for all consultancy
contracts for individuals above US$20,000 and for firms above US$50,000. This exception will
not apply to terms of reference, single source contracts, assignments of a critical nature as
determined by IDA and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value for individuals to
US$20,000 and for firms to US$50,000 respectively. Prior IDA review will apply on: terms of
reference, short lists, letters of invitation with selection procedure, curriculum vitae, evaluation
reports, and contracts and letters of appointment of consultants. Standard bidding documents
modeled on the IDA's standard documents for procurement of civil works and goods are ready to
be used by the project. These documents will be incorporated in the implementation manual to
be completed by the MPEPFE prior to effectiveness (para 3.16) and will be reviewed in the
course of the project launching workshop to be held at the time of effectiveness (para 2.15).
2.23   Recording of Procurement Information. Procurement information will be collected and
recorded as follows:
(a) through the prompt reporting of contract information by MPEPFE;
(b) through the semi-annual reports to IDA and other donors (para 3.13), indicating: (i)
cost estimates for individual contracts and revised semi-annually for the project as a
whole, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies; (ii)
revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award,
and completion time for individual contracts; (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on
specified methods of procurement; and (iv) summary reports on the performance of
consultants;
(c) at the time of supervision missions, a detailed statement of all procurement
undertaken to date, together with a forecast of anticipated procurement to be undertaken
in the coming six months, with estimated costs; and
(d) as part of the government's completion report within six months of the project's
closing date (para 3.13).
2.24   Procurement Management. The project Coordinator (para 3.1) will be responsible for
preparing bidding documents and maintaining the deadlines for procurement actions agreed upon
in the procurement schedule. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the procurement
procedures and arrangements agreed at negotiations will be applied throughout the project.
Moreover, that all bid documents for the project's first year of implementation be prepared
to the satisfaction of IDA will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.3).
2.25   Disbursements. The IDA Credit is expected to be effective by December 30, 1996 and
will close by December 31, 2000 allowing for the three-year duration of the project plus a four-
month period for delayed disbursements beyond project completion date. Once agreement has



14
been reached on the annual work program and budgets (para 3.12), withdrawals from the Credit
will be made using standard Bank procedures. To facilitate local disbursement, IDA will
advance the sum of KMF 40.000.000 into a special account with a commercial bank acceptable
to IDA. Expenditures should be grouped for replenishment of this special account and submitted
for reimbursement every month or more frequently, if necessary, through the standard channel of
the Ministry of Finance. The account may be used to pay for expenditures in either local
currency or foreign exchange through the commercial banking system, against any category of
expenditure. All expenditures less than 20 percent of the initial deposit will be paid from the
special account.  All replenishments should be fully documented except in cases where
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) are authorized.
2.26   A project advance account in local currency, operated by the National Coordinator (para
3.1), will be established in a commercial bank, with an initial deposit of the equivalent of
US$17,500 to cover the Government's contribution to the first six months of project
15
expenditures . This advance account will be replenished from a deposit account opened at the
Central Bank to receive the Government's counterpart contribution. The advance account will
be replenished by the Government to an amount equivalent to the initial deposit every 6 months,
against presentation of supporting documentation, every six months or whenever the balance
falls to one third of the original amount, whichever comes first. The deposit of an initial
amount equivalent to US$17,500 to the Project Advance Account, will be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit (para 6.3).
2.27   Disbursement by IDA against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Appropriate
arrangements for accounting and auditing are in place, and the National Coordinator possesses
the ability to process and maintain SOE documentation in a manner satisfactory to IDA. The
project coordination unit will claim reimbursement on the basis of SOEs for: (i) civil works
costing less than US$20,000 equivalent; (ii) goods and equipment contracts of under US$20,000;
(iii) contracts with consulting firms valued at less than US$50,000; (iv) contracts with individual
consultants costing less than US$20,000 (including amendments); and (v) all operating costs and
training. The project coordination unit will retain all the relevant supporting documentation for
reimbursement claims under SOEs for inspection by supervision missions. During the course of
the annual audit of the project's accounts, the auditor will certify that all expenditures claimed
under SOEs during the year have been properly incurred for the project.
2.28   The disbursement categories for the IDA Credit are presented in Table 2.4 below. IDA
will finance 100 percent of all categories of foreign costs, excluding identifiable taxes and duties,
95 percent of local costs of vehicles, equipment and civil works and 100 percent of consultants,
subcontractors, audit and training, and 90 percent of operating costs, excluding identifiable taxes
and duties.
15
This amount (US$17,500), combined with a similar deposit of US$17,500 required as counterpart for
the IFAD Loan, add up to US$35,000, the semi-annual contribution of the Govermment to the project.



15
b)    Table 2.4                        Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ thousand)
Category                     Amount          Percent of     Percentage of
Foreign Costs    Local Costs
Funded by IDA Funded by IDA
1. Civil Works                                9.0            100              95
2. Equipment and Furniture                  163.0             100             95
3. Vehicles                                  65.0             100             95
4. Consultants and Studies                  366.0             100             100
5. Training                                  56.0             100             100
6. Operating Costs, not including salaries  285.0                             90
7. Reimbursement of PPF                     600.0
8. Unallocated                               56.0
Total Credit                               1,600.0
2.29   The estimated schedule of IDA Disbursements is given in Table 2.5. The schedule is
based on the all-sectors standard disbursement profile for the Comoros. There is no specific
profile for agriculture projects. The schedule reflects the rate of disbursements of the all-sector
profile spread over a four-year disbursement period to adjust for the three-year duration of this
pilot project.
Table 2.5                  Estimated IDA Disbursements
US$ thousand
FY97       FY98       FY99        FY00
IDA   PPF Reimbursement             600.0
Annual                         60.0      220.0       240.0      480.1
Cumulative                    660.0      880.0    1,120.0    1,600.1
Percentage (a)                   6          22         24          48
(a) annual as % of final cumulative less PPF (US$1,000.10).
3. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION
A.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION
3.1    The MPEPFE, through its Secretary General (SG), will have overall responsibility for
implementing the project. The latter will be supported by a Project Steering Committee (PSC)



16
whose composition (which will include farner representatives)16 and terms of reference have
already been approved by IDA and IFAD. The SG and PSC will retain a considerable amount of
flexibility to adjust the project's components and activities within the limits of the project's
broad objectives. Adjustments will be based, inter alia, on the results emanating from the
monitoring of the project's performance indicators (para 3.19) and the conclusions of the studies
to be carried out under the project. Day-to-day operational support will be provided by the
National Coordinator, who will assist in the preparation of the annual work programs and
progress reports, manage project procurement, disbursement and accounting activities, and
supervise the recruitment and work of sub-contractors. The terms of reference and conditions of
service of the coordinator have been approved by IDA and IFAD.
3.2    All agricultural service support and technical assistance activities of the project to be
implemented by external agencies in the private sector (NGOs, consulting firms, etc.) will
require contracts between the MPEPFE and the agency concerned. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations with regards to the execution of such contracts between the agencies and the
MPEPFE (para 6. 1).
B.     PILOT PROJECT AREAS
3.3    Given the pilot nature of the project, many of the proposed activities will need to be
tested over a limited area in order to demonstrate their viability before being implemented on a
national scale. To make most efficient use of resources and to facilitate coordinated monitoring
of progress, it was agreed at appraisal that project activities will be concentrated in one selected
area in each of the three islands, corresponding roughly to an existing extension service area
(CEA)". A total of 25 villages will be selected from these three areas in order to provide a
representative sample of the country's 343 villages. As far as possible, the chosen villages
should not be serviced by existing projects. Under the pilot extension activity, roughly half the
selected villages will be serviced by private sector providers and the remainder by MPEPFE
staff who will be given equivalent operating resources and facilities.
3.4    Village selection will prioritize those villages that have demonstrated interest in
involvement in project activities. A tangible manifestation of this interest will be the creation of
Project Village Committees (PVCs) to participate in project decisions affecting their villages and
monitor project activities at the village level. In each village, the PVC will constitute the focal
point of implementation discussions particularly with respect to agricultural extension. In each
case, the extension worker assigned to the village will be an ex-officio advisor to the PVC.
Whenever possible, the project will work with existing village committees and will not create
new ones where such committees exist.
3.5    Selection of project zones and villages and creation of PVCs will be among the first
tasks leading to the preparation of the project's first year work program.
16  The members of the PSC will include: the Secretary General of the MPEPFE; representatives of
INRAPE, the Chamber of Commerce, SNAC, Ministry of Finance, and the head of the MPEPFE's
Planning Division.
17 Centre d'encadrement agricole.



17
C.    IMPLEMENTATION
3.6    Extn5ion (para 2.7). For this activity, the tasks of the SG and the PSC, supported by the
18
MPEPFE's rural development department , will include: (a) selection of extension contractors
and monitoring consultants; (b) ensuring that extension information provided to farmers is of
relevance and quality; (c) overseeing the backup roles of PVCs, of INRAPE, and of MPEPFE's
regional offices; and (d) by the end of the project's second year, preparing assessments of the
extension experiment and formulating recommendations to the Government concerning the
nationwide adoption of this approach. A total of 8 private sector extension contractors will be
recruited. They will be matched with 8 public sector workers. (This total of 16 represents a ratio
of one extension worker for every 350-400 farms). The objective will be to constitute 3 teams
(one for each island) comprising 2-3 individual extension workers, covering a total of 7-12
villages per island. The individuals will need to reside in one of the villages they cover. There
is in the country a large number of qualified extension workers, most of whom have been trained
under various projects now completed or were retired early following the Government's
downsizing. The selection procedure could afford to be reasonably selective in its choice of the
best candidates.
3.7    3esearch (para 2.10). For this activity, the tasks of the SG and the PSC, in consultation
with INRAPE, will include: (a) selection of the specialized agency to assist iNRAPE in
developing its long-term operational plan and assessment of the agency's recommendations; and
(b) the review of INRAPE's project-related annual work programs, giving special attention to
training activities and assessment of results.
3.8    Communications and Market Development (para 2.1 1). For this activity, the tasks of the
SG and the PSC will include: (a) Participatory Approach: selecting an external consulting firm
to pursue the training of trainers; and formulating recommendations on the future use of these
trainers; (b) Association support: reviewing and deciding on operation-strengthening activities to
be undertaken by the farmers' association; selecting NGOs to provide this support; reviewing
performance; (c) Markets and media: concluding an agreement with the Chamber of Commerce
for Industry and Agriculture (UCCIA) for the latter to coordinate this sub-component and carry
out collation and analysis of the information collected; concluding an agreement with SNAC for
the collection of market data for analysis by UCCIA; selecting a local firm to prepare programs
(using data from UCCIA) and arranging with local media to broadcast market information; and
selecting a local firm to monitor results at market level. As part of the annual work program, the
project will submit training programs for IDA review and approval.
3.9   Planning and Monitoring Support (para 2.12). For this activity, the tasks of the SG and
the PSC will include: (a) overseeing progress of the Planning Division in achieving its project
related objectives and preparing the public expenditure program for the agriculture sector; (b)
selecting consultants to undertake project-supported studies; and (c) overseeing implementation
of measures to bring existing projects in line with Government strategy.
18  Direction generale du d6veloppement rural.



18
D.    ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
3.10   Accounting.  A  financial management system  based on modern management
information requirements was introduced during preparation. The features of the system include:
setting up budget preparation, monitoring and evaluation systems that meet the project's
operational and management information requirements, as well as double entry and accrual-
based accounting as recommended under IASC guidelines applicable to public accounting. The
system's architecture is based on the concept of integrated financial management which captures
accounting data only once at the source. Appropriate PC-based computer software will be used
to support the system.
3.11   Auditing of project accounts will be facilitated by year-round verification of internal
controls, and by application of IASC guidelines. The project's accounts will be audited by private
audit firms, recruited under Bank procedures, which have demonstrated professional
qualifications and apply standards recognized under IASC auditing guidelines.  Financial
reporting standards will be in conformity with recent Bank guidelines on financial statements as
well as norms of the IASC. Financial statements submitted for auditing will comprise, at a
minimum, a statement of net position (balance sheet equivalent), sources and application of
funds, a summary budget execution statement, a summary statement on the IDA Special Account
and withdrawals claimed on the basis of SOEs. Audit reports in the long form will be submitted
within six months of the end of the fiscal year to which they refer. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations (para 6.1).
E.    PROGRAMMING, MONITORING, EVALUATION, REPORTING
3.12   Programming. The MPEPFE's Planning Division, assisted by the Coordinator (para
3.1) will have overall responsibility for coordinating and consolidating annual work programs
incorporating budget and disbursement estimates, details of procurement, the annual training
programs and other agreed project details. Work program proposals will be prepared by the
units or individuals responsible for activities or components before being submitted to the
Planning Division. Following consolidation by the Planning Division, the programs will be
submitted to IDA for comments and approval by the end of September of the preceding year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para 6.1).
3.13   Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting. MPEPFE's Planning Division will also have
responsibility for overall project monitoring. Given the pilot nature of some of the project's
operations, some activities (e.g. extension, market development) will have their own built-in
monitoring arrangements. The information so collected, as well as project-specific information
collected by the National Coordinator (e.g. procurement, disbursements), will be communicated
to the Planning Division. The division will be responsible for maintaining the performance
indicators (see para 3.19 below and Annex 5) as well as providing the SG, and the PSC with
monthly reports on the project's progress. For IDA and other donors, reports on project
implementation progress will be submitted semi-annually, at the end of March and September.
The September report will be submitted to coincide with discussion of the draft annual work
program for the following year (para 3.12). Information as required for donor supervision will
be prepared in time for the missions (para 3.14). The Planning Division will also be responsible
for carrying out the necessary studies, starting in project year two, covering the impact of
project activities as support for the project's Implementation Completion Report, to be prepared



19
by a consultant in the six month period prior to the closing of the IDA Credit. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations (para 6.1).
F.     SUPERVISION PLAN
3.14   IDA/IFAD Supervision Input. The supervision staff inputs will be largely provided by
HQ staff with the support of consultants. Under IDA/IFAD arrangements, IDA will be expected
to have supervision responsibility for the project. IFAD will be informed of all decisions and
copies of all correspondence and reports will automatically be forwarded to IFAD headquarters
in Rome. As far as possible, missions will be programmed to coincide with the production of
progress reports in March and September. Indicative staff week requirements for IDA HQ staff
are given at Annex 6. Time for consultants will be that of field missions only.
3.15   Borrower's Contribution to Supervision. The borrower will be required to submit or
contribute the following:
(a) semi annual reports on project implementation progress (March and September)
incorporating M&E findings by monitoring firms (extension, markets) and the MDRPE
planning division (para 3.13);
(b) annual work programs incorporating budget and disbursement estimates, details of
procurement, annual training program and other project details as required (September)
(para 3.12); and
(c) audit reports in the long form within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para
3.11).
G.    IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
3.16   A detailed Project Implementation Plan will be prepared by MPEPFE in time for
effectiveness and in anticipation for the project launching workshop to be held at that time (para
2.15). The plan will be a joint effort of the MPEPFE's Planning Divisior. and the project's
Coordination unit. It will constitute the Government's own project document and will be
destined to a wide audience to ensure a good understanding of the project's goals and purposes.
The preparation of a Project Implementation Plan, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition
of Credit effectiveness.
3.17   The document will include, inter alia: project development objectives; detailed time-
bound description of components and project activities; description of implementation
responsibilities and contractual arrangements; terms of reference of consultants and technical
assistance; schedule of procurement action including target dates for each step; disbursement
schedule; financing plan and timetable of Government counterpart contributions; accounting and
financial management arrangements, including appointment of auditors; role of donors and
supervision plan; details of training programs and arrangements; financial and economic
analysis, including description of assumptions; and key indicators of development impact,
physical progress (inputs and outputs) and financial situation.  Performance  monitoring
indicators are discussed below. A summary implementation timetable is at Annex 7.



20
H.    INDICATORS FOR MONITORING PERFORMANCE
3.18   Progress of project activities and results will be monitored on the basis of pre-defined
key indicators and guidelines. To measure the effectiveness of the overall agricultural services
component as well as the relative performance of the private and public sector extension
providers, farm level production and marketing in both village and urban markets will be
sampled systematically and periodically by the consultants hired to monitor this component.
For agricultural production, a sample of farms will be taken in each of the five village farming
systems to update the data presented in Supplementary Annex 2 covering area planted and
cropping pattern, yields and other parameters. For agricultural marketing, the aim will be to
measure frequently the quantities and prices of marketed produce, as well as price spreads
between markets, in order to assess the effectiveness of market information and determine its
influence on farm production and income.
3.19   The list of key performance indicators to be monitored during this project was approved
during negotiations. The key performance indicators for the project are listed at Annex 5 in
relation with the project's objectives, inputs and outputs and are summarized as follows:
(a) Development Impact Indicators:
(i) trend in net value of production (as calculated from production levels, yields, prices)
and farm income;
(ii) marketed output in selected markets and evolution of price spreads of key crops
(cassava, banana, plantain, legumes, rice) between markets; and
(iii) opinion trends of farmers and villagers (as measured by monitoring activities) as to
efficiency of agricultural services.
(b) Implementation Indicators:
(i) level and trend of project expenditures (vs. anticipated at appraisal and in budget);
(ii) progress of capacity building (hours/days of training; number of persons trained;
media hours);
(iii) execution of studies, audits, master plan, etc.;
(iv) field results (farmers contacted; confirmed adoptions of messages; use of inputs);
(v) research transfers (number, types and level of distribution of research publications;
liaison and training sessions dispensed by INRAPE); and
(vi) conclusions of joint review of budgetary allocation and PIP.
4. THE BANK GROUP'S ROLE
A.    LESSONS FROM IDA's INVOLVEMENT IN THE COMOROS' AGRICULTURAL
SECTOR
4.1   To date, the Comoros received two IDA credits in agriculture.  The Coconut
Rehabilitation and Rodent Control Project (closed in December 1988) was designed to extend



21
and improve coconut and copra production on the three islands. Despite positive technical
results, the limited Government implementation capacity, low level of acceptance of
recommended hybrids by farmers and the collapse of international copra prices prevented the
project from achieving its objectives. The institutional and physical infrastructure put in place
have not been sustainable. Important lessons that have been drawn from the project include: (i)
project objectives should not be too technically complex and should adequately reflect economic
and marketing factors; (ii) the agricultural innovations and technical recommendations to be
introduced by the project should be tailored to the real needs of farmers and; (iii) the
Government's limited implementation capacity should be addressed.
4.2    The Rural Services Project (closed in December 1991) which was co-financed with
IFAD, aimed to strengthen the existing agricultural services at the time, to improve the planning,
coordination and monitoring of rural development activities and included the expansion of
livestock and forestry activities. The project was not successful and the resulting lessons indicate
that efforts to strengthen institutions should: (i) be based on a well-defined and focused sectoral
strategy; (ii) ensure coordination of donor contributions; (iii) address the problem of limited
management capacity in the design of farmer support services; (iv) take into account the limited
financial resources of Government to finance operating costs; and (v) identify the required
training needs for the operation.
4.3   The above lessons are reflected in the proposed project through: (a) the consultation/
participation of beneficiary farners and villagers in project preparation and throughout
implementation; (b) reliance on the private sector for implementation of most project activities,
limiting the need to recruit additional Government staff; and (c) the involvement of other donors
in the preparation and implementation process and provision for regular review, by IDA and
other donors, of the Government's PEP.
1.    RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
4.4    The proposed project conforns with the Country Assistance Strategy, reviewed by the
Board on December 14, 1993. The central objective of Bank assistance is to help the Comoros
(i) reduce poverty by accelerating sustained economic growth (ii) develop human capital and
reduce population growth; and (iii) protect the fragile ecosystem. These CAS goals are
explicitly reflected in the design framework of the project. The project will foster the
development of institutions and capacity in both the private and public sectors as well as assist
in formulating appropriate policy and institutional frameworks for agricultural development.
By building on previous IDA-intervention in the sector (Rural Services Project) and supporting
environmentally-sustainable productivity growth and agricultural intensification, it will make a
significant contribution to poverty alleviation. It will enhance the role of the Bank in donor
coordination, and in the process, improve the efficiency of resource use through the
mechanism of annual public expenditure. The results from this first phase of intervention will
help clarify viable, sustainable and efficient frameworks for agricultural service delivery; and
provide a basis for supporting a full scale follow-on operation in form of an integrated sector-
wide agriculture and investment program.



22
B.    DONOR COORDINATION
4.5    As this project will be a pilot operation, with eventual sector-wide implications over the
whole country, it will provide an opportunity for both the Government and the donor community
to further the dialogue on sector issues and approaches to address them. This situation is
simplified by the few donors currently active in the country (UNDP, CFD, EU, IFAD and French
Cooperation). All donors were consulted during the preparation process and were kept informed
of progress. This collaboration will continue throughout project implementation as well as
through the PEP review process.
5. PROJECT IMPACT ASSUMPTIONS,
FINANCIAL/ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, SUSTAINABILITY
AND RISK ASSESSMENT'9
A.    IMPACT ON AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.1    The Project Area. The 25 villages in which the pilot extension activities of the project
will be carried out will occupy an area of approximately 22,400 ha, or about 29 percent of the
country's total land area. Given the country's rugged and irregular topography, the wide range of
soil quality, and excluding plantations (coconut), cash crops (ylang-ylang, cloves and vanilla)
and other highly marginal non-cultivable areas, the cultivated area under food crops of the
project villages will amount to approximately 6,800 hectares. Of this latter area, the appraisal
mission has also assumed that about 1700 ha of food crop area, or slightly over 25% of the
covered villages' cultivated area, will benefit directly from the technical and institutional
innovations to be introduced by the project over the period. Based on an average of about 1.15
ha per household, the number of farm households to be covered by the Pilot Project will amount
to about 1400.
5.2    Production Assumptions.  Although small in size, farm  production is generally
diversified to provide variety and security against crop or market failure. Inter-cropping and
multiple cropping, often on several and separate (even dispersed) plots of arable land, by any one
farm household, are widespread. Rural households normally plant five crops or more per season,
with up to nine crops during any one year. Four staple crops -- cassava, plantain, bananas and
rice -- occupy 72% of the land. Annual crops such as bananas, plantain and cassava, are sparsely
planted, leaving space for one or two associated crops, or a rotation of seasonal crops such as
maize, yams, sweet potatoes, potatoes and pigeon peas, plus a few square meters for vegetables.
Despite these well-adapted cropping patterns and the high intensity of land utilization in certain
parts of the country, such factors as low plant density and variable soil fertility, the use of
19 This chapter summarizes the contents of Supplementary Annex 2 entitled "Financial and Economic
Analysis".



23
unimproved seed, and the low use of other inputs, result in very low yields for virtually all
crops. Expressed in equivalent weight per hectare, yields are one-fourth to one-third those of
countries in the region: rice yields vary between 300 kg - 800 kg/ha depending on location;
cassava yields average 5.5 tons/ha; potatoes about 7 tons; plantain, 5 tons; and bananas, barely 3
tons. With proper advice, the use of improved seeds, minimum quantities of fertilizers and plant
protection products, there is reasonable scope for raising yields over the medium and long term.
Supplies of fertilizer, seed, planting stock and plant protection materials are available through
the private sector at market prices.
5.3    Agricultural Output. The Pilot Project will seek to promote economically feasible and
environmentally sustainable improvements to the farming systems, cropping patterns and overall
resource allocation at farm level. It will rely initially on disseminating previously tested
technology and farming techniques (para 2.9), many of which are already used by commercially
oriented farmers, or readily available to smaller farmers. Technical messages will be tailored to
the needs of each crop and to meet the needs of farmer groups. While the main thrust of the
project will come from the supply of technical advice to farmers and the promotion of
economical use of inputs, this will be supplemented with non-price incentives to stimulate
increases of productivity. Providing market information through local and mass media is
proposed under the project as a cost-effective means of reaching a large number of farms with
periodic messages about demand and prices. Steps are already under way to standardize weights
and measures in local markets and shops. Given their novelty and the lack of relevant
information, the effects that these measures could have on production have not been quantified
for the purpose of this analysis.
5.4    The main benefits will accrue to farmers through increases in foodcrop production.
Based on calculat- s supported by above assumptions (the details of these calculations are in
Supplementary Annex 2 dealing with financial and economic analysis), it is expected that crop
production could be increase by about 24% over the project period. Yield and production
increases are estimated conservatively: yields expected "with project" are indicative of those
achievedpresently by larger and more resourcefulfarmers in the Comoros.
B.    FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT
5.5    For the purpose of this analysis, the costs of project activities designed to result in
tangible financial benefits, such as those related to agriculture services, have been considered
and the net present value (NPV) has been used to demonstrate both the economic and financial
viability of the proposed Pilot Project. The income generated from the production assumptions
outlined in the paragraphs above has been retained for the benefits stream.
5.6    At farm level, the relation between financial costs and benefits is viewed from two
perspectives: (a) from that of each of the five individual farm models retained in the project,
which suggests if participating in the project can be profitable, and (b) from the point of view of
the aggregate investment and recurrent costs of agricultural services relative to the net present
worth of future incremental benefits. As seen in Table 5.1 below, profitability from participating



24
in the project is varied. This is because of the very short period and the variable base (without
project) from which the net value of agricultural production of each farm type begins
Table 5.1
ESTIMATED NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION WITHOUT AND WITH PILOT
PROJECT
('000 FC per farm type)
Without                   Year 4           %
Farm type           project              value         increase
Model I (Gde. Comore)       133.5               168.0           26%
Model 2 (Gde. Comore)        12.7                14.3           12%
Model 3 (Moheli)            60.8                 82.0           35%
Model 4 (Moheli)            39.3                 46.7           19%
Model 5 (Anjouan)          143.8                 172.2          20%
Weighted average     87.6                 108.8          24%
Source: Supplementary Annex 2 on Financial and Economic Analysis (Sub-Annex 9).
5.7    The conservative estimate of 24% increase in crop production by participating farmers
over the project period results in a present value (PV) of net incremental revenues from
production of about FC 445 million or an equivalent of US$ 845 per farm family, at 15% OCC
(Opportunity cost of capital). This calculation is based on the aggregate net value of production
for all farm models, assuming that modest increases in productivity i after the pilot period can
be maintained. The results are indicative of what could be achieved with present cropping
patterns and already-known technology, without any other on-farm or infrastructure investments.
It suggests that modest amounts of investment in agricultural services are appropriate, but that
additional returns will require more rapid innovations. This could change, over the longer term,
with the introduction of more advanced technology and cultural practices, and better market
incentives than in the past. The prospects for such fundamental changes should be perceptible by
the end of the Pilot Project, so that long term investment choices will be more evident than they
are at present.
5.8    Given the above, Pilot Project investments in research, extension and market information
services will be kept small, implying a minimum level of incremental recurrent costs over the
ten-year period used for calculations. When project related investment and recurrent costs are
included, the result will be a positive net present value (NPV) of FC 129 million at 15% OCC
(about US$ 245 per farm family). Moreover, this result is tempered by its sensitivity in that the
NPV will become slightly negative if the increase in productivity cannot be sustained after the
20  The slow short-term supply response in agriculture is acknowledged as the low short-term elasticity
of supply, which is usually due to fLxed and slowly adjusting scarce factors of production, mainly
land and labor, to new production and market possibilities.
21  Calculations assume rates varying from 3% in year 5 to 1% in year 10.



25
pilot period or only one half of the benefits contemplated are reached after the first year (Cf.
Sub-Annex 12 of Supplementary Annex 2).
5.9    The preceding estimates will be subject to confirmation before the end of the Pilot
Project. They are reassuring if services and input supply can be maintained during and after the
pilot phase in order to bring smallholder agriculture near the level of technology and farming
techniques used by progressive farmers. This could be achieved with improved seed selection,
crop rotation, and a minimum of moderate fertilization and plant protection. A case in point will
be potato production which could enjoy a significant increase after two years or so with the
introduction of "pure" seed from CIP which will be used to multiply and produce locally
adaptable potato seed and thereby end dependence on high-cost imported potato seed. Similarly,
selection of cassava cuttings from among the high-yielding local varieties, or varieties
recommended by IITA, should double or triple present yields at little additional cost to farmers.
5.10   In the absence of distortions induced by macro-economic policies, financial and
economic net present values of the incremental production generated by the project will be about
the same. However, the financial viability of the project is clearly superior to its economic worth
when account is taken of the distorting effect of macro-economic policies (particularly that of the
fixed exchange rate) on real prices and the opportunity costs of resources used in the project.
This distinction is established by converting financial values into economic ones by means of a
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF), currently estimated at 0.86 which translates into a foreign
exchange premium of 1.162 (equivalent to FC 430 per US $) when applied to tradable goods and
the foreign exchange content of project investments.
5.11   If the financial values which make up net incremental production are adjusted for
economic distortions using the SCF, the PV at 15% OCC drops to about FC 350 million
(US$660 per farm family), confirming further the conclusion of the financial analysis that only
small amount of investment can be supported by this agriculture in the absence of economic
distortions.
5.12   When project related investment and recurrent costs are included in the calculations (the
same, at economic prices, as those used in the financial analysis), the NPV will be a modest but
positive FC 14 million at 15% OCC (about US$26 per farm family). If sensitivity is tested using
the same parameters as for the financial analysis, the results are negative, emphasizing the
continuing effect of past economic distortions (Cf Sub-Annex 15 of Supplementary Annex 2).
C.     IMPACT ON POPULATION, INCOME AND POVERTY
5.13   The target population for the Pilot Project is estimated at about 6000 families, of which
some 1400 will benefit directly from the project's agricultural service related activities over the
project's period. Family income estimates at the end of the Pilot Project are considered as
indicative and represent modest increases ranging between 18% and 27% over the base year by
year 4 of the project. The project will monitor progress carefully in order to determine if the
proposed interventions are valid and if adequate incentives are given to farmers. There are,
however, few alternatives. With prices of cash crops (vanilla, ylang-ylang and cloves) at about
one-half those of the past in real terms, prospects for alleviating rural poverty remain
conditioned by the present economic and financial circumstances.



26
5.14   The Government has yet to produce a good representative household survey of incomes
and expenditures although one is currently under way with support from the UNDP and the
Bank. Until the data become available, the degree of rural poverty is not precisely known, but is
considered to be acute for households whose total income is equivalent to less than FC 360,000
per year (the subsistence level in September 1995). The rural wage equivalent in Comoros is FC
750-800 per day, which on a monthly basis (26 days) amounts to about FC 20,000, the equivalent
of FC 240,000 per year, about the same as the estimated subsistence level before devaluation.
5.15   Project measures that will be expected to have an impact on poverty will include:
(a) extension messages and market information will initially support increased domestic
food crop production (these are the crops produced by the poor) which will help improve
the nutritional status. Another project premise is that facilitating poor farners' access to
markets through improved information will serve to encourage production as well as,
eventually, diversification into other food and export crops;
(b) the sizable resources earmarked for training (almost 30% of project costs) in various
forms, much of which is directed to the population, especially through extension and
farmers' groups. The low level of education among the poor is given as one of the main
factors for perpetuating poverty.
5.16   The impact of the foregoing measures will not be immediate, since it will take several
years for markets to become fully accessible and competitive on each island, including
commercial outlets for agricultural inputs and services. During the Pilot Project, the gradual
effect of these changes on project beneficiaries will be monitored, as they influence the
allocation of land and other resources in order to increase real income. The eventual impact of
these measures will be expected to be achieved when, and if, a full development project is
undertaken after the results of the Pilot Project have been assessed.
D.    IMPACT ON EMPLOYMENT
5.17   One potential economic benefit of the project, albeit not included in the calculations, will
be the increase in farm level employment. Under-employment at the farm level is chronic,
especially on small farms. With the project, however, and given the labor-intensive nature of
crop production, the low level of mechanization and use of draft animals, between 500 and 1,000
person-years of supplementary on-farm employment is expected to be generated. Non-
agricultural employment created by the multiplier-effect of increased crop production cannot be
estimated.
E.    IMPACT ON PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
5.18   As part of its agricultural strategy, the Government is committed to bringing all existing
projects in line with its strategic objectives. The plan to carry through this task was included in
the strategy statement presented by the Government at the Donor Round Table of October 1994.
Aligmnent is progressing but more work is needed particularly with regard to implementing the
participatory approach and to ensure full harmonization between individual project objectives
and those of the country's strategy. All donors have agreed to lend their support to this process
through the projects they finance. The Pilot Project will play an important role in this context



27
through the support it will provide to MPEPFE's Planning Division whose role it will be to
coordinate the reconciliation of all projects with the strategy (para 2.12). Concurrently, and as
part of the review of the progress in this regard, the Government will, no later than October 31 of
each year, carry out, in consultation with all concemed donors, an annual review of its Public
Expenditure Program for the agricultural sector and the environment. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
F.     ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY
5.19   An environmental category C has been assigned to this project, as it is expected to
engender a beneficial impact on the environment. Project activities will directly support efforts
towards improving sustainability of agricultural production. Technical recommendations will
support improved cultural practices and prioritize environmental protection measures (for which
there are proven existing themes), including soil conservation, fertility restoration, plant
protection, agroforestry, as well as the establishment of live hedges and other erosion control
techniques. It will also continue to support fertility maintenance through composting, while
encouraging farmers to use chemical fertilizers where appropriate. Chemical fertilizers will be
restricted to those which have proven effective in the local context heretofore and with no known
negative environmental effects.
G.    SUSTAINABILITY
5.20   Project design is geared towards expanding the scope for private sector involvement in
the delivery of agricultural services, which supplements the weak public sector institutional
capacity. There are also efficiency gains and increased cost-effectiveness accruing from the
competition that will be introduced into the system, which in turn have an indirectly positive
impact on the financial cost of the operations. If successful in developing replicable systems, the
project could provide a basis for supporting a more sustainable operation on a broader scale,
during a second phase of interventions. At this latter stage also, based on demonstrated results,
cost-recovery measures could be considered, if feasible, to reduce the fiscal burden on the state.
Other features of the project which foster long-term sustainability include the strengthening of
the sectoral capacity for planning, programming and monitoring, and the enhancement of donor
coordination (largely through the public expenditure review process). These interventions will
facilitate the efficient programming of scarce budgetary resources and help improve the overall
efficiency of resource use in the sector. In addition, the mainstreaming of client consultation in
project activities, and the provision of support for strengthening capacity in participatory
development techniques, helps ensure sustainability by capturing stakeholder interest and
commitment in agricultural development activities. Finally, the contents of extension messages
will be geared towards promoting sustainable utilization of natural resources.
H.    RISK ASSESSMENT
5.21   Major risks that the project may face include: (a) a low level of farmer participation and
response due to the lingering lack of credibility of existing agricultural services; and (b) a low
level of effective use of project-produced technological and market information. Regular
monitoring of results and systematic consultation with the beneficiaries should ensure that
feedback to project managers on the quality and impact of services enables them to address gaps
in implementation. Measures to be put in place by the project include: (i) continuous monitoring



28
through both private sector providers and public sector facilities; and (ii) continuing dialogue
and mainstreaming the process of participation started during project preparation, involving will-
be beneficiaries and project managers.
5.22   An additional risk facing this project stems from the budgetary constraints of the
government and the possibility that the latter will be unable to sustain financing of its share even
at the modest level projected. Public finance issues are being addressed in the context of the
second structural adjustment program under preparation. The new government has already taken
measures to improve revenue collection by strengthening the customs administration and to cut
expenditures through continued civil service reform and reduction of civil servants allowances.
This should help mitigate the risk of shortages in counterpart funding. In addition, the
government is currently seeking alternative resources in the form of grant funds to cover its
contribution in order to reduce its dependence on fiscal resources.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER,
CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS AND
RECOMMENDATION
6.1    The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(i) The Government has included its fiscal 1997 counterpart contribution to project costs
in its investment budget (para 2.18);
(ii) The work program for each year incorporating budget and disbursement estimates,
details of procurement, the annual training program and other agreed project details to be
deternined in the course of supervision, will be prepared and submitted to IDA for
comments and approval by the end of September of the preceding year (para 3.12); and
(iii) The Government will, no later than October 31 of each year, carry out, in
conjunction with the association, a joint annual review of the Project and Borrower
performance, to review progress (a) in the implementation of the project (para 3.13) and
(b) in carrying out an annual review of its Public Expenditure Program affecting the
agricultural and the environment sectors (para 5.18);
(iv) All agricultural service support and technical assistance activities of the project to be
implemented by external agencies in the private sector (NGOs, consulting firms, etc.)
will require contracts between the MPEPFE and the agency concerned. (para 3.2);
(v) The procurement procedures and arrangements agreed at negotiations will be applied
throughout the project (paras 2.19-2.24);



29
(vi) The project's accounts will be audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA,
having demonstrated professional qualifications and applying auditing standards
recognized under IASC's auditing guidelines. Audit reports in the long form will be
submitted within six months of the end of the fiscal year to which they refer (para 3.11);
and
(vii) A Project Implementation Completion Report will be prepared during the six
months prior to Credit closing (para 3.13);
6.2    The following were approved during negotiations:
(i) Agreement has been reached with Government on the types and numbers of
indicators for monitoring performance under the project (para 3.19).
6.3    The following will be conditions of effectiveness of the credit:
(i) All bid documents for the project's first year of implementation to be prepared to the
satisfaction of IDA (para 2.24);
(ii) The deposit of an initial amount equivalent to US$17,500 by Government to the
project advance account, to cover its contribution to project expenditures (para 2.26);
(iii) The preparation of a Project Implementation Plan satisfactory to IDA (para 3.16);
and
(iv) The fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan
Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of the IDA credit agreement
(para. 2.15).
6.4    With the above assurances and conditions, the above project will be suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR 1.1 million.



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page I
COMOROS
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Logical Framework of Project Design
Narrative Summary          Performance Indicators          Monitoring/                Assumed
Supervision            Constraints/Risk
CAS Objecti:              Measure of achievement
(involving agriculture!                              Assumed constraints:
achieve environmentally    i) 4-5% growth of GDP     i) MERCAP monitoring    i) relatively high degree of
sustainable growth        mostly from agriculture and   reports;               political instability;
through:                  tourism;                   ii) supervision reports;  ii) frequent changes in
i) enhancement of         ii) higher private sector  iii) economic mission     govt composition; and
competitiveness;          involvement in agric.      reports; and              iii) inflexibility of
ii) development of human   services;                 iv) IMF and Central Bank   exchange rate (country in
capital; and              iii) improved access to info,  data.                 CFA zone).
iii) protection of        technology and markets.
ecosystem.
Project Specifc
Objectives:                                                                    Assumed constrn:
restore agricultural growth  i) increase in agricultural  i) project-specific  project intervention
production;                monitoring activities;   limited to food and
ii) increase in marketed  ii) monitoring by central   intemally traded crops
output of local crops.     services of MPEPFE;       given inflexibility of exch.
iii) project supervision.  rate which limits extemal
competitiveness.
PEoject Outcomes:                                                              Assumed risks:
Removal of major          i) development of efficient   i) monitoring reports;  i) low level of farmer
constraints to agric.     providers of agricultural  ii) annual reports from   participation due to
productivity              services (extension and    project coordinating unit;  lingering lack of
research);                 and                       credibility of existing
ii) use of participative   iii) supervision reports.  agric. services;
approach expanded;                                   ii) low level of effective
iii) farners and groups                              use of project produced
trained;                                            technological and market
iv) access to marketing                              information.
information improved;
v) MPEPFE's planning and
operational capacity
improved.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Narrative Summary          Performance Indicators          Monitoring/           Assumptions/Risk
Supervision
Project Outputs:
i) private sector delivery of  i) farm production and  monitoring by private
extension services field  marketed output (to select    monitoring firns and
tested vs public sector in  most effective extension  MPEPFE'planning
25 villages;              approach);                 division.
ii) INRAPE operates under  ii) types and quantities of
new Master Plan;          practical technological
iii) staff, farmers, groups    information material
trained;                  produced;
iv) market info collected    iii) Research Master Plan
and re-broadcast;         produced;
v) planning unit of       iv) numbers of staff,
MPEPFE strengthened.      villagers and farmers
trained;
v) measurement of price
spreads of selected crops in
markets (to determine
effective use of improved
market knowledge);
vi) studies and monitoring
exercises carried out by
MPEPFE's planning div.
Projec lInmj:                                                                  Assumed risk:
i) field and farm level  i) project expenditures and    i) annual work programs    inability of Government to
demonstrations;           disbursements;             and budgets;              provide counterpart
ii) technical assistance;  ii) procurement related   ii) budgetary control;   funding.
iii) training activities and    activities.          iii) disbursement
workshops;                                           monitoring.
iv) use of media and
printed material;
v) provision of technical
and office equipment,
vehicles, operating funds,
etc.



- 32 -
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoro-                                    ANNEX  2
Pilot Agricultural Services Project                                      Page  1
Table 1. Operations pilotes de vulgarisation
Detailed Costs
(USS 000)
Totals Including
Base Cost               Contingencies
1997  1998  1999  Total 1997  1998  1999  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Op-rateurs prives
Prestations                              85.3  85.3  85.3 256.0 100.7 105.0 109.3 315.0
Motos 125cc                              17.7      -      -  17.7  18.7       -     -  18.7
Ordinateurs                               8.4      -      -   8.4   9.3       -     -   9.3
Imprimantes                               2.8      -      -   2.8   3.1       -     -   3.1
Onduleur                                  8.4      -      -   8.4   9.3       -     -   9.3
Subtotal Oprxateura priv -                 122.6  85.3  85.3 293.3 141.1 105.0 109.3 355.4
B. Appui mat-riel aux CEA
Motos 125cc                              17.7      -      -  17.7  18.7       -      -  18.7
Ordinateurs                               8.4      -      -   8.4   9.3       -     -   9.3
Imprimantes                               2.8      -      -   2.8   3.1       -     -   3.1
Onduleur                                  8.4      -      -   8.4   9.3   _         -   9.3
Subtotal Appui mat;riel aux CEA             37.3      -      -  37.3  40.4       -      -  40.4
C. suivi don operations pilot.s
Assistance technique locale               8.0   8.0   8.0  24.0   9.4   9.8  10.2  29.5
Assistance technique internationale   9.3   9.3           -  18.7  10.3  10.5       -  20.8
Subtotal Suivi don op-rations pilot.-   17.3  17.3   8.0  42.7  19.7  20.3  10.2  50.3
Total Investmont Coats                          177 3 102 7  93.3 3 733 201 2 125.4 195 446.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Op;rateurs priv4s
1. Fonctionnement du mat;ri-l
Motos 125cc                            2.6   2.6   2.6   7.7   3.0   3.1   3.1   9.2
Ordinateurs                            1.6   1.6   1.6   4.8   1.9   1.9   2.0   5.8
Subtotal Fonctionnment du matiriel   4.2   4.2   4.2  12.5   4.9   5.0   5.1  15.0
2. Forfait de fonctionnement /a          12.8  12.8  12.8  38.4  15.0  15.3  15.7  46.1
Subtotal Opirateurs privis                  17.0  17.0  17.0  50.9  199 920 3  20.8  61.0
B. Appui aux CEA
1. Fonctionnoment du mat-ri-l
Motos 125cc                            2.6   2.6   2.6   7.7   3.0   3.1   3.1   9.2
ordinateurs                            1.6   1.6   1.6   4.8   1.9   1.9   2.0   5.8
Subtotal Fonctionnement du matiriel   4.2   4.2   4.2  12.5   4.9   5.0   5.1  15.0
2. Forfait de fonctionnement              1.1   1.1   1.1   3.2   1.3   1.3   1.3   3.8
Subtotal Appui aux CEA                       5 2   5.2   5.2  15 7   6.1   6.3   6.4  18.8
C. Suivi do. opiration. pilote.
1. Suivi par consultants
Sdjours dans les tIes                  8.7   8.7   8.7  26.0  10.2  10.4  10.7  31.2
Voyages inter-Iles                     0.8   0.8   0.8   2.4   0.9   1.0   1.0   2.9
Forfait transport local                1.7   1.7   1.7   5.0   2.0   2.0   2.1   6.0
Subtotal Suivi par consultants           11.2  11.2  11.2  33.5  13.1  13.4  13.7  40.2
2. Suivi par l'administration
Niveau national                        2.4   2.4   2.4   7.2   2.8   2.9   2.9   8.6
Niveau rigional                        1.0   1.0   1.0   2.9   1.1   1.2   1.2   3.5
Subtotal Suivi par l administration   3.4   3.4   3.4  10.1   3.9   4.0   4.1  12.1
3. Suivi par lee comitis villageois
Forfait de fonctionnement             13.3  13.3  13.3  40.0  15.6  16.0  16.4  48.0
Subtotal Suivi don opirations pilot--   27.9  27.9  27.9  83.6  32.6  33.4  34.2 100.2
Total Recurrent Costs                            50.0 0500  50 0 150 1  58 6  60  61 4 180.1
Total                                            227.3 152.7 143.4 523.4 259.8 185.4 180.9 626.1
\a Remboursement sur factures
Tue Sep 10 10:10:51 1996



- 33 -
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Pilot Agricultural Services Project                                   ANNEX  2
Table 2. Recherche
Detailed Costs                                             Page  2
(uss '000)
Totals Including
Base Cost              Continqencies
1997  1998  1999  Total 1997  1998  1999  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Sch-ma directour
Assistance technique internationale           37.3      -      -  37.3  41.2      -      -  41.2
Assistance technique locale                   10.7      -      -  10.7  12.6      -      -  12.5
Ateliers /a                                   16.0   _         -  16.0  19.8             7 -  19.8
Subtotal Schema direct-ur                         64.0 C          -  64.0  73.6      -      -  73.6
B. DocumentatiOn
1. Abonnementa                                 4.0   4.0   4.0  12.0   4.4   4.5   4.6  13.5
2. Publications diverees                       4.0   4.0   4.0  12.0   4.4   4.5   4.6  13.5
3. Amenagement bibliotheque                    8.0      -      _   8.0   9.4      -      -   9.4
4. Equipement
Ordinateur                                  2.8      -      -   2.8   3.1      -      -   3.1
Imprimante                                  1.9      -     -   1.9   2.1       -     -   2.1
Photocopieuse                               5.7      -     -   5.7   6.3       -     -   6.3
Onduleur                                    2.8      -     -   2.8   3.1                  3.1
Subtotal Equip-ment                           13.2      -      -  13.2  14.6      -      -  14.6
5. Mobilier                                    5.3      -      -   5.3   6.6      -      -   6.6
6. Formation documentalistes Jb                2.1   2.1       -   4.3   2.6   2.8       -   5.4
7. Production du guide du praticien
Mobilier                                    2.7      -      -   2.7   3.3      -      -   3.3
Assistance technique locale                    -   7.5      -   7.5      -   9.2      -   9.2
Pre-vulgarisation                             -  37.3      -  37.3      -  41.9      -  41.9
Atelier /c                                     -  10.7      -  10.7     -  13.8       -  13.8
Dactylographe                                  -   0.3      -   0.3      -   0.4          0.4
Impression                                    -   2.7      -   2.7   _       3.4   _      3.4
Subtotal Production du guide du praticien   2.7  58.5          -  61.1   3.3  68.7       -  72.0
Subtotal Documontation                            39.3  68.6   8.0 115.9  45.3  80.5   9.2 135.0
C. Rolations avec l'extiriour
Voyages d'etudes                              12.0  12.0  12.0  36.0  13.9  14.1  14.4  42.4
D Formation do ch.rcheurs /d
Assistance technique internationale           18.7  18.7       -  37.3  20.6  21.0       -  41.6
Stages de formation                             5.3   5.3   5.3  16.0   6.2   6.3   6.4  18.8
Subtotal Formation de ch-rch-ur-                  24.0  24.0   5.3  53.3  26.8  27.2   6.4  60.4
E. Protoction des cultures
1. Vehicule                                   15.5      -      -  15.5  18.1      -      -  18.1
2. Vergers d'essais                            0.9   0.9   0.9   2.8   1.1   1.1   1.1   3.4
3. Formation des paysans pilotes               1.3   1.3   1.3   4.0   1.6   1.7   1.8   5.2
Subtotal Protection dos cultures                  17.7   2.3   2.3  22.3  20.9   2.8   2.9  26.6
Total Investment Costs                               157.1 106.9  27.6 291.5 180.4 124.7  32.9 338.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Schdma Direct-ur
Voyages inter-ilea                             4.0      -      -   4.0   4.7      -      -   4.7
B. Service documentation
Extra pour photocopieuse                        0.8   0.8   0.8   2.3   0.9   0.9   0.9   2.7
C. Production du guide du praticien
Extra pour photocopieuse                        0.8   0.8   0.8   2.3   0.9   0.9   0.9   2.7
D. Protection des cultureS
1. Missions d'appui dans les iles              1.2   1.2   1.2   3.7   1.5   1.6   1.6   4.7
2. Voyages inter-iles                          0.6   0.6   0.6   1.8   0.7   0.7   0.7   2.2
Subtotal Protection des cultures                   1.8   1.8   1.8   5.5   2.2   2.3   2.3   6.8
Total Recurrent Costs                                  7.4   3.4   3.4  14.1   8.7   4.1   4.2  17. 0
Total                                                 164.4 110.2  31.0 305.6 189.1 128.8  37.1 355.0
\a 15 personnes pendant 10 jours
\b 4 *emaines de formation locale pour lee documentalisteo
\c 20 personnes pendant 5 jours
\d 20 personnes pendant 5 jours chaque annee
Tue Sep 10 10:11:05 1996



- 34  -                                   ANNEX  2
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoro.                            Page  3
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Table 3. Communication. et marches
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Totals Including
Bage Cost              Contingencies
1997  1999  1999  Total 1997  1998  1999  Total
I. InvssvcfLt Costs
A. Formation - Approche participative
Formation des formateurs                                 56.0      -     -  56.0  61.8      -     -  61.8
Formations des conseillers                                5.3  10.7      -  16.0   6.3  13.1      -  19.4
Subtotal Formation - Approche participative                 61.3  10.7      -  72.0  68.1  13.1       -  81.2
B. Appui au SNAC
1. Formation de- rosponmables
Assistance techaique                                   9*3      -     _   9.3  10.3      -     -  10.3
Journies de formation /a                               S.5  S.5   S 5  25.5  10.5  11.0  11.4  33.0
Subtotal Formation dos responsables                      17.9   8.5    .5  34.9  20.8  11.0  11.4  43.3
2. SNAC - Appui ; l'information
Photocopicuse                                          5.7     -      -   5.7   6.0      -     -   6.0
Ordinateur                                             2.8      -     -   2.8   2.9      -     -   2.9
Imprimante                                             1.9     -      -   1.9   2.0      -     -   2.0
Onduleur                                               2.8      -     _   2.8   2.9      _     _   2.9
Subtotal SNAC - Appui ; l'information                    13.2      -     -  13.2  13 9      -      -  13.9
Subtotal Appui au SNAC                                      31.1   8.5   8 5  48 1  34.7  11.0  11.4  57 .2
C. Appui au d;veloppoment des march.S
1. Collects des informations
Relev6z de prix bi-hebdomadaires (SNAC) /b             5.5   5.5   5.5  16.6   6.9   7.2   7.4  21.5
Saisie et traitement des informations (CdeC) /c        3.9   3.9   3.9  11.6   4.8   5.0   5.2  15.0
Subtotal Collect. dos informations                        9.4   9.4   9.4  28.3  11.7  12.2  12.7  36.5
2. Rediffusion des informations
Preparation imisions radio                            1.8   1.8   1.8   5.4   2.1   2.2   2.3   6.6
Emissions radio                                       27.7  27.7  27.7  83.2  32.4  33.7  34.9 101.0
Subtotal Rediffusion dos informations                    29.5  29.5  29.5  88.6  34.5  35.9  37.2 107.6
Subtotal Appui au d;v.lopp.ment dos mazchis                 39.0  39.0  39.0 116.9  46.2  48.0  49.9 144.1
D. Suivi des actions do d;volopp-ment des marchis
Assistance technique locale                               8.0   8.0   8.0  24.0   9.4   9.8  10.2  29.5
Assistance technique internationale                       9.3   9.3   9.3  28.0  10.3  10.5  10.7  31.5
Subtotal Suivi dos actions de divlopp-rent de- marchi;   17.3  17.3  17.3  52.0  19 7  20.3  20.9  61.0
Total Invstenot Costs                                          148.7  75.5  64.8 289.0 168.7  92.5  82.2 343.5
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Formation - Approche participative                       10.7  10.7      -  21.3  12.5  12.8       -  25.3
B. Appui SNAC                                                2.7   2.7   2.7   8.0   3.3   3.4   3.5  10.2
C. Diveloppement des marchis                                21.3  21.3  21.3  64.0  25.0  25.6  26.2  76.8
D. Suivi des actions d'appui                                21.3  21.3  21.3  64.0  25.0  25.6  26.2  76.8
Total R-current Costs                                           56.0  56.0  45.3 157.3  65 8  67.4  55.9 lS9.0
Total                                                           204.7 131.5 110.2 446.4 234.5 159.9 138.1 532.5
\a 240 journees de formation riparties sur trois annies
\b 10 personnes a raison d'un jour i toutes les deux semaines A 8000FC par jour (y compris frais gineraux)
\c 1 personne a raison de deux jours a toutes lea deux semaines et 2 jour. par trimestre pour ricapitulation a 250oo0
par jour
Tue Sep 10 10:11:17 1996



- 35-                                       ANNEX  2
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                        Page  4
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Table 4. Planification et suivi
Detailed Costs
(15$ ' 0o0)
Totals Including
Base Cost              Contingencies
1997  1998  1999  Total 1997  1998  1999  Total
I Investment Costs
A. Diviaion de la planification
1. Etude 6conomique de base
Economiste                                                 9.3     -      -   9.3  10.3      -     -  10.3
Bureau d'etudes local                                     16.0     -      -  16.0  18.9      -     -  18.9
Subtotal Etude *conomique de base                            25.3     -      -  25.3  29 2      -       -  29.2
2. Harmonisation des projets
Assistance technique internationale                          -   9.3      -   9.3     -  10.5      -  10.5
Assistance technique locale                                  -   5.3   5.3  10.7          66 6 68  13.4
Subtotal Harmonisation dos projets                              -  14.7   5.3  20.0      -  17.0   6.8  23.9
3. Etude - Finances rurales
Assistance technique internationale                          -     -  18.7  1S.7      -      -  21.4  21.4
Assistance technique locale                                        -   5.3   5.3      -      -   6.8   6.8
Subtotal Etude - Finances ruralos                               -     -  24.0  24.0      -      -  28.2  28.2
4. Etude - Aspects fonciers
Assistance technique internationale                        9.3   9.3  18.7  37.3  10.3  10.5  21.4  42.1
Assistance technique locale                                2.7   2.7   5.3  10.7   3.1   3.3   6.8  13.3
Subtotal Etude - Aspects fonciers                            120  12.0  24.0  48.0  13.4  13.8  28.2  55.4
5 Formation du personnel
Assistance technique internationale                        9.3   9.3  18.7  37.3  10.3  10.5  21.4  42.1
Assistance technique locale                                2.7   2.7   2.7   8.0   3.1   3.3   3.4 _ 9.8
Subtotal Formation du personnel                              12.0  12.0  21.3  45.3  13.4  13.8  24.8  52.0
6. Mat-riol et mobilier
Ordinateur                                                 2.8     -      -   2.8   3.0      -     -   3.0
Imprimante                                                 1.9     -     -   1.9   2.0       -     -   2.0
Photocopieuse                                              5.7     -      -   5.7   6.0     -      -   6.0
Onduleur                                                   2.8     -      -   2.8   3.0      -     -   3.0
V6hicule leger                                            15.5     -      -  15.5  16.3      -     -  16.3
Mobilier                                                   0.9     -      -   0.9   1.2      -     -   1.2
Subtotal Msteriel et mobilier                                29.6     -      -  29.6  31.4   _- 31.4
Subtotal Division de la planification                           78.9  38.7  74.7 192.3  87.4  44.6  88.0 220.0
B. Directions Central- et Regionales de l Agriculture
1. Materiel
Ordinateurs                                                8.4     -      -   8.4   9.3      -     -   9.3
Imprimantes                                                2.8     -     -   2.8   3.1      -      -   3.1
Photocopieuses                                            17.2     -     -  17.2  19.0      -      -   g .
Onduleurs                                                  8.4     -      -   8.4   9.3      -     -   9.3
Subtotal Mat-riel                                            36.8     -      -  36.8  40.7      -     -  40.7
2. Mobilier
Forfait meubles                                            2.8     -      -   2.8   3.5     -      -   3.5
3. Vihicules
Vihicules ligers                                          46.4     -      -  46.4  48.9      -     - 48.9
Subtotal Directions Centrale et R-gionales de l'Agriculture  86.0         -     -  86.0  93.1   _        -  93.1
Total Investment Costs                                             164.9  38.7  74.7 278.3 180.6  44.6  88.0 323.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Division do la planification
1 Etudes
Forfait de fonctionnement                                  3.2   3.2   3.2   9.6   3.8   3.8   3.9  11.5
2. Fonctionnsment de la division
Mat6riel informatique                                      0.5   0.5   0.5   1.6   0.6   0.6   0.7   1.9
Fonctionnement vihicule                                    1.3   1.3   1.3   4.0   1.6   1.6   1.6   4.8
Subtotal Fonctionn-ment do la division                        1..9         1.9   5.6   2.2   2.2   2.3 _6.7
subtotal Division dO la planification                            5.1   5.1   5.1  15.2   5.9   6.1   6.2  13.2
B. Directions r-igionalew
1. Fonctionnement des directions                              2.1   2.1   2.1   6.4   2.5   2.6   2.6   7.7
2. Fonctionnement des vehicules                               1.6   2.4   2.4   6.4   1.9   2.9   2.9   7.7
Subtotal Directions regionales                                   3.7   4.5   4.5  12.8   4.4   5.4   5.6 1_.4
Total Recurrent Costs                                                8.8   9.6   9.6  28.0  10.3  11.5  11.8  33.6
Total                                                               173.7  48.3  84.3 306.3 190.9  56.1  99.7 346.7
Tue Sep 10 10:11:30 1996



- 36 -
Islamie Federal Republic of the Comoroe                                   ANNEX  2
Pilot Agricultural Services Project                                     Page  5
Table 5. Cellule d'execution
Detailed Cost.
(USS '000)
Totals Including
Base Cost              Contingencies
1997  1998  1999  Total 1997  1998  1999  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Audit                                      9.3   9.3   9.3  28.0  10.3  10.5  10.7  31.5
B. Systeme de gestion financi&re
1. Progiciele                              5.3      -     -   5.3   5.9       -     -   5.9
2. Installation et formation               2.7      -         2.7   3.0       -     -   3.0
Subtotal Systems do ge-tion financiare        8.0      -     -   8.0   8.9       -     -   8.9
C. Equipements et logiciels                   2.7      -     -   2.7   3.0       -     -   3.0
D. Vehicules l4gers                          15.5      -     -  15.5  16.3       -     -  16.3
Total Investment Costs                           35.5   9.3   9.3  54.1  38.4  10.5  10.7  59.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salair-. at ind.mnitia
1. Salaires at chargoe  sociales
Coordinateur                           18.6  18.6  18.6  55.7  20.9  21.8  22.6  65.3
Comptable                               7.7   7.7   7.7  23.0   8.6   9.0   9.4  27.0
Secretaire                              6.1   6.1   6.1  18.2   6.8   7.1   7.4  21.4
Chauffeur                               2.2   2.2   2.2   6.7   2.5   2.6   2.7   7.9
Menage                                  1.1   1.1   1.1   3.4   1.3   1.3   1.4   3.9
Gardiennage                             6.4   6.4   6.4  19.2   7.2   7.5   7.8  22.5
Services                                4.8   4.8   4.8  14.4   5.4   5.6   5.9  16.9
Subtotal Salaires et charges social.s  46.9  46.9  46.9 140.6  52.7  55.0  57.2 164.8
2. Indemnitds de diplacement               1.5   1.5   1.5   4.5   1.7   1.8   1.8   5.3
3. Indemnites s6jour a 1'tranger          1.6   1.6   1.6   4.8   1.8   1.9   2.0   5.6
4. Voyages internationaux                  2.1      -   2.1   4.3   2.4       -   2.6   5.0
5. Voyages locaux                          0.5   0.5   0.5   1.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   1.8
Subtotal Salaires at indemnites              52.6  50.5  52.6 155.7  59.1  59.2  64.2 182.5
B. Fraia de fonctionnement
1. Equipement                              2.7   2.7   2.7   8.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   9.6
2. Vehicules                               1.3   1.3   1.3   4.0   1.6   1.6   1.6   4.8
3. Logement et services                   24.0  24.0  24.0  72.0  28.1  28.8  29.5  86.4
Subtotal Frais do fonctionnement             28.0  28.0  28.0  84.0  32.8 -33.6  34.4 100.8
Total Recurrent Costs                            80.6  78.5   80.6 239.7  92.0 97.8  98.5 283.2
Total                                            116.1  87.8  90.0 293.9 130.4 103.2 109.2 342.8
Tue Sep 10 10:11:45 1996
Islamic Federal Republic of the ComorOs
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(CF '000)                   (USS '000)         Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Services agricoles
Vulgarisation                     121,776.0  76,981.8 198,757.8   338.3   213.8   552.1             39        28
Recherche                          29,281.2  84,513.8 113,795.0    81.3   234.8   316.1             74        1E
Communications et marches          80,170.4  98,056.2 168,226.6   222.7   244.6   467.3             52        24
Subtotal Services agricoles          231,227.6 249,551.8 480,779.4   642.3   693.2 1,335.5             52        6e
B. Planification et Suivi
1. Division de la planification  22,739.0  59,368.9  82,107.8    63.2   164.9   228.1               72       12
2. Directions regionales            2,647.0  29,074.9  31,721.9        7.4    80.8    88.1          92         4
Subtotal Planification et Suivi        25,386.0  88,443.8 113,829.8    70.5   245.7   316.2            78        1c
C. Cellule d'execution                 67,386.0  44,159.7 111,545.7   187.2   122.7   309.8            40        1E
Total BASELINE COSTS                   323,999.6 382,155.3 706,154.8   900.0 1,061.5 1,961.5            54       IOC
Physical Contingencies               16,975.4  24,251.7  41,227.1    47.2    67.4   114.5             59         6
Price Contingencies                  28,417.3  17,336.5  45,753.8    78.9    48.2   127.1             38         6
Total PROJECT COSTS                    369,392.3 423,743.5 793,135.7 1,026.1 1,177.1 2,203.2            53       112
Thu Jul 04 16:55:56 1996



- 37 -
ANNEXE 2
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                    PAEX 2
Pilot Agricultural Services Project                     Page
Project Cost Sumary
)CF '000)                   (US  ' 000)        Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
I. Irivestment costs
A. G*nie civil                                 621.0   2,350.1   2,971.1       1.7      6.5      8.3        79
B. Zquipement
Vehicules                                2,188.0  39,330.5  41,518.5        6.1   109.3   115.3         95
Materiel                                 2,771.2  52,556.1  55,327.3        7.7   146.0   153.7         95
Mobilier                                 4,326.3      215.4   4,541.7    12.0        0.6    12.6          5
Subtotal Equipennt                          9,285.5  92,102.1 101,387.6    25.8   255.8   281.6             91
C. Assistance technique
Assistance technique locale            191,238.8   4,880.5 196,119.3   531.2    13.6   544.8             2
Assistance technique internationale             - 133,660.8 133,660.8         -   371.3   371.3        100
Subtotal Assistance technique             191,238.8 138,541.3 329,780.1   531.2   384.8   916.1            42
D. Formation
1. Formation au pays
Formation locale                    13,144.5           -  13,144.5    36.5         -    36.5          -
Ateliers                             10,350.0          -  10,350.0    28.8         -    28.8          -
Subtotal Formation au pays              23,494.5          -  23,494.5    65.3          -    65.3         -
2. Formation A 1'etranger                      -  19,094.4  19,094.4          -    53.0    53.0        100
Subtotal Formation                         23,494.5  19,094.4  42,588.9    65.3    53.0   118.3            45
E. Etudes et recherche                      1,418.0   5,366.0   6,784.0        3.9    14.9    18.8         79
F. Autres d6penses                          1,035.0          -   1,035.0       2.9        -     2.9         -
Total Invtestmnt Costs                        227,092.8 257,453.9 484,546.7   630.8   715.1 1,346.0             53
1. Recurrent Costs
A. Indemnit*s                              60,358.4        85.9  60,444.3   167.7       0.2   167.9          -
B. Fonctionnrment et entret-in
Vehicules                                2,310.1   8,742.3  11,052.4        6.4    24.3    30.7         79
Materiel                                 1,844.4   6,979.7   8,824.1        5.1    19.4    24.5         79
Subtotal Fonctionninnt et entr-tien         4,154.5  15,722.0  19,876.5    11.5    43.7    55.2            79
D. Autres depenses de fonctionnement    32,393.9 108,893.4 141,287.4    90.0   302.5   392.5               77
Total Recurrent Costs                           96,906.8 124,701.4 2Z1,608.2   269.2   346.4   615.6            56
Total BAStSLSS  COSTS                           323,999.6 382,155.3 706,154.8   900.0 1,061.5 1,961.5            54
Physical Contingencies                        16,975.4  24,251.7  41,227.1    47.2    67.4   114.5             59
Price Contingencies                           28,417.3  17,336.5  45,753.8    78.9    48.2   127.1             38
Total YROJECT COSTS                            369,392.3 423,743.5 793,135.7 1,026.1 1,177.1 2,203.2             53
Thu Jul 04 16:56:00 1996
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Cosponents by rinanciers
(US$ '000)
Government   IDA    IFAD   Total
Amount   Amount  Amount Amount
A. Services agricoles
Vulgarisation                               -        -  626.1   626.1
Recherche                                10.5   249.9   94.5   355.0
Communications et march6s                33.0   372.5  127.0   532.5
Subtotal Services agricoles                 43.5   622.4  847.7 1,513.6
B. Planificatioz et Sulivi
1. Division de la planification             -   106.5  147.1   253.6
2. Directions r6gionales                    -    93.1        -    93.1
Subtotal Planification at Suivi                 -    199.6  147.1   346.7
C. Cellule d'extcution                     164.8   178.0        -   342.8
Total Disbursment                           208.4 1,000.1  994.7 2,203.2
Thu Jul 04 16:55:39 1996
13-1 Project Cost Summary



-38 -                                   ANNEX 2
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                           Page 7
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
)US$ '000)
Government   IDA    IFAD   Total
Amount   Amount  Amount Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. G4nie civil                                       -     9.4       -      9.4
B. Equipement
Vehicules                                        -    81.5   37.3   118.9
Materiel                                         -   122.1   43.4   165.5
Mobilier                                         -    11.2    3.3    14.5
Subtotal Equipement                                  -   214.8   84.0   298.8
C. Assistance technique
Assistance technique locale                      -   218.5  403.5   621.9
Assistance technique internationale              -   166.5  240.4   406.9
Subtotal Assistance technique                        -   384.9  643.9 1,028.8
0. Formation
1. Formation au pays
Formation locale                           43.5        -       -    43.5
Ateliers                                               -   33.5    33.5
Subtotal Formation au pays                    43.5        -   33.5    77.1
2. Formation A 1'tranger                        -    61.2        -    61.2
Subtotal Formation                               43.5    61.2   33.5   138.3
E. Etudes et recherche                               -    21.5       -    21.5
F. Autres depenses                                  -        -    3.4       3.4
Total Investment Costs                                43.5   691.8  764.9 1,500.2
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Indemnites                                   164.8    17.7        -   182.5
B. Fonctionnement et entretien
Vehicules                                        -    17.3   18.4    35.1
Mat6riel                                         -    14.2   14.2    28.5
Subtotal Fonctionnement et entretien                 -    31.5   32.7    64.2
0. Autres depenses de fonctionnement                 -   259.1  197.1   456.2
Total Recurrent Costs                                164.8   308.3  229.8   702.9
Total Disbursement                                    208.4 1,000.1  994.7 2,203.2
Thu Jul 04 16:55:42 1996
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Procurement Accounts by Financiers
(USS '000)
Government   IDA    IFAD   Total
Amount   Amount  Amount Amount
Civil Works                -      9.4       -     9.4
Equipment                  -   125.4   62.1   187.5
Furniture                  -    11.2    3.3    14.5
Vehicles                   -    99.7   18.7   118.3
Consultants                -   384.9  643.9 1,028.8
Training                43.5    61.2   33.5   138.3
Operating Costs        164.8   308.3  233.3   706.4
Total                     208.4 1,000.1  994.7 2,203.2
Thu Jul 04 16:55:46 1996



-39-                            ANNEX 2
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                   Page 8
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Disbursements by Semsters and Saverninnt Cash Jlow
(USS '000)
Costs
to be
-Financing Available   Financed        Government
IDA    IFAD           Project               Cumulative
Amount  Amount  Total   Costs   Cash Flow  Cash Flow
I        -       -       -    502.3      -502.3      -502.3
2    264.3  204.3   468.6    502.3        -33.8      -536.1
3    264.3  204.3   468.6    316.7        151.9      -384.2
4    123.6  157.8   281.5    316.7        -35.2      -419.4
5    123.6  157.8   281.5    282.6          -1.1     -420.5
6    112.1  135.2   247.4    282.6        -35.2      -455.7
7    112.1  135.2   247.4          _      247.4      -208.4
Total 1,000.1  994.7 1,994.8  2,203.2        -208.4     -208.4
Thu Jul 04 16:55:49 1996
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
ProJect Components by Year -- Inveestmtnt/Recurrent Costs
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997    1998    1999    Total
A. Services agricoles
Vulgarisation
Investment Costs                       201.2   125.4   119.5   446.1
Recurrent Costs                         58.6    60.0    61.4   180.1
Subtotal Vulgarisation                     259.8   185.4   180.9   626.1
Recherche
Investment Costs                       180.4   124.7    32.9   338.0
Recurrent Costs                           8.7     4.1      4.2    17.0
Subtotal Recherche                         189.1   128.8    37.1   355.0
Conmunications et marches
Investment Costs                       168.7    92.5    82.2   343.5
Recurrent Costs                         65.8    67.4    55.9   189.0
Subtotal Communications at marches        234.5   159.9   138.1   532.5
Subtotal Services agricoles                   683.4   474.0   356.2 1,513.6
B. Planification et Suivi
1. Division de la planification
Investment Costs                        87.4    44.6    88.0   220.0
Recurrent Costs                         10.3    11.5    11.8    33.6
Subtotal Division de la planification    97.8    56.1    99.7   253.6
2. Directions r6gionales
Investment Costs                        93.1        -        -    93.1
Subtotal Planification et Suivi               190.9    56.1    99.7   346.7
C. Cellule d'ex6cution
Investment Costs                            38.4    10.5    10.7    59.6
Recurrent Costs                             92.0    92.8    98.5   283.2
Subtotal Cellule d'execution                  130.4   103.2   109.2   342.8
Total PROJZCT COSTS                          1,004.7   633.3   565.1 2,203.2
Total Investment Costs                       769.3   397.6   333.3 1,500.2
Total Recurrent Costs                        235.4   235.7   231.8   702.9
Thu Jul 04 16:56:24 1996



-40 -                                ANEX 2
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                            Page 9
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
lqxp dture Accounts by years
(US5 '000)
Foreign
Base Cost                 Exchange
1997    1998    1999    Total        %    Amount
I. investment Costs
A. Genie civil                                 8.3        _               83    79.1       6.5
B. Zqulpement
Vehicules                                 115.3        -        -   115.3    94.7   109.3
Materiel                                  137.3      8.2      8.2   153.7    95.0   146.0
Mobilier                                   12.6        -        -    12.6      4.7      0.6
Subtotal Equipement                          265.3      8.2      8.2   281.6    90.8   255.8
C. Assistance technique
Assistance technique locale               191.3   182.4   171.1   544.8        2.5    13.6
Assistance technique internationale   180.9   114.2    76.2   371.3   100.0   371.3
Subtotal AsSistance technique                372.1   296.6   247.3   916.1    42.0   384.8
D. Formation
1. Formation au pays
Formation locale                       12.9    12.9    10.6    36.5           -        -
Ateliers                               17.3    11.5         -    28.8         -        -
Subtotal Formation au pays                 30.2    24.4    10.6    65.3          -        -
2. Formation A letranger                  17.7    17.7    17.7    53.0   100.0    53.0
Subtotal Formation                            47.9    42.1    28.3   118.3    44.8    53.0
E. Etudes et recherche                        16.9      1.0      1.0    18.8    79.1    14.9
E. Autres d6penses                               -      2.9        -     2.9         -       -
Total Xnvestsint Costs                           710.4   350.8   284.8 1,346.0    53.1   715.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Indemnit6s                                 56.7    54.4    56.7   167.9        0.1      0.2
S. Fonctionnement et entretien
Vehicules                                   9.7    10.5    10.5    30.7    79.1    24.3
Materiel                                    8.2      8.2      8.2    24.5    79.1    19.4
Subtotal Fonctionnement et entretien          17.9    18.7    18.7    55.2    79.1    43.7
D. Autres d6penses de fonctionnement         137.2   133.1   122.1   392.5    77.1   302.5
Total Recurrent Costs                            211.8   206.2   197.5   615.6    56.3   346.4
Total BASFLINB COSTS                              922.3   557.0   482.3 1,961.5    54.1 1,061.5
Physical Contingencies                           48.7    35.5    30.3   114.5    58.8    67.4
Price Contingencies                              33.7    40.8    52.6   127.1    37.9    48.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                             1,004.7   633.3   565.1 2,203.2    53.4 1,177.1
Taxes                                               -        -        -        -        -
Foreign Exchange                                632.3   296.1   248.7 1,177.1           -       -
Thu Jul 04 16:56:28 1996



-41 -                       AiNMEX 2
Page 10
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
ZxqpendCtur- Accounts by Years
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997    1998    1999    Total
I. Investmant Costs
A. Genie civil                                 9,4        _       -      94
B. Zquipement
Vehicules                                118.9        -        -   118.9
Materiel                                 147.2      9.0      9.2   165.5
Mobilier                                  14.5        -        -    14.5
Subtotal EquipFm nt                         280.6      9.0      9.2   298.8
C. Assistance technique
Assistance technique locale              209.8   208.6   203.5   621.9
Assistance technique internationale   195.7   125.8    85.4   406.9
Subtotal Assistance technique               405.5   334.4   289.0 1,029.8
D. Formation
1. Formation au pays
Formation locale                       14.8    15.5    13.2    43.5
Ateliers                               19.8    13.8         -    33.5
Subtotal Formation au pays                34.6    29.2    13.2    77.1
2. Formation a 1'tAranger                 20.0    20.4    20.8    61.2
Subtotal Formation                            54.7    49.6    34.0   138.3
E. Etudes et recherche                       19.2      1.1      1.1    21.5
F. Autres depenses                               -     3.4        -      3.4
Total Investment Costs                           769.3   397.6   333.3 1,500.2
1I. Recurrent Costs
A. Indemnites                                 59.1    59.2    64.2   182.5
S. Fonctionneant et entretien
Vehicules                                 11.0    12.2    12.5    35.7
Materiel                                   9.3      9.5      9.7    28.5
Subtotal Fonctionnement at entretien         20.3    21.7    22.2    64.2
D. Autres depenses de fonctionnement        155.9   154.9   145.4   456.2
Total Recurrent Costs                            235.4   235.7   231.8   702.9
total PROJECT COSTS                             1,004.7   633.3   565.1 2,203.2
Thu Jul 04 16:56:33 1996



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Schedule of Major Procurement Action
1997                 1998                 1999
Vehicles       Start: March 1997
(ICB)         End: June 1997
Equipment       Start: March 1997     Start: August 1997
(ICB)         End: June 1997       End: December 1997
Technical Assistance    March 1997          September 1997       September 1998
Building         Start: April 1997
Rehabilitation      End: July 1997
Extension Worker's                         September 1997
Manual
Auditors           August 1997



COMOROS
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Technical Assistance
Intemational T.A.     Local T.A.             Total        Financier
Unit Quantity   US$      Quantity   US$       Quantity   US$
('000)              ('000)               ('000)
Extension
Private contractors S/M                     24      315.0        24      315.0   IFAD
Monitoring S/M   1       20.8         9      29.5         10      50.3    IFAD
Research
Master Plan S/M   2       41.2         4       12.6         6       53.8     IDA
End-user Manual S/M   2       41.9        10       9.2         12       51.1    IFAD
Staff Training S/M  2      41.6                              2       41.6    IDA
Comm. & Markets
Particip. Approach S/M  3      61.8         6       19.4         9       81.2    IFAD
Group Training S/M   0.5    10.3                             0.5      10.3    IFAD
Price Info. Collection S/D                   780      21.5        780      21.5    IDA
Analysis S/D                       168       15         168      15.0    IDA
Radio Prog. Prep. un.                      78       6.6         78       6.6     IDA
Radio Broadcasts un.                       78       101         78      101.0    IDA
Monitoring S/M   1.5     31.5         9      29.5        10.5     61.0    IDA
Planning and Monitoring
Baseline Study S/M    0.5   10.3         6       18.9        6.5      29.2    IDA
Harmon. of projects S/M    0.5  10.5         4       13.4        4.5      23.9    IDA
Rural Finance S/M   1      21.4         2        6.8         3       28.2    IFAD
Land Tenure S/M    2      42.1         4       13.3         6       55.4    IFAD
Staff Training S/M  2      42.1         3       9.8          5       51.9    IFAD
Implementation Unit
Auditors S/M    1.5    31.5                             1.5      31.5
Total                               407                 621.5                1028.5



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
COMOROS
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
Objectives                 Inputs                   Outputs               Key Indicators
Outcome/Impact                                                              (Quantities given in Supp.
Annex 2; Implem. Manual;
and SAR; as referenced)
The Project aims to      through the use ofproject  to produce...           the results of which would
contribute to..         financed.,                                          be judged by measuring
and/or assessing...
the restoration of       i) field and farm level  i) an effective extension  i) farm production and
agricultural growth by   demonstations;           system born out of the    marketed output (Cf.
removing major                                    competition of agents from    Supp. Annex 3);
constraints to agric.    ii) technical assistance;  both private and public
productivity through:                             sectors operating in 25   ii) farmer participation
iii) training activities and    villages;          and adoption of
i) the development of    workshops;                                         technological transfers Cf.
efficient providers of                            ii) a re-defined role for  Supp. Annex 2; Annex 1);
agricultural services    iv) media and printed    INRAPE's as a supplier of
(extension and research);   material;             technological information;   iii) types and quantities of
practical technological
ii) the expanded use of  v) technical and office  iii) the adoption of      information material
participative approach and   equipment, vehicles,  participative approach to  produced (Cf. Supp.
training of farmers and  operating funds, etc.    improve interactive       Annex 2, para 17);
environmental groups;                             communications
iv) production of a
iii) using information as a                       iv) the strengthening     Research Master Plan;
tool to improve access to                         through training of farmers
markets for farmers; and                          association               v) numbers of staff,
villagers and farmers
iv) improving MPEPFE's                            v) a system of market data   trained (Cf.
planning and monitoring                           collection and evaluation    Implementation Manual);
capacity                                          for retransmission over the
media; and                vi) measurement of price
spreads of selected crops
vi) a number of key sector   in markets (to determine
studies                   effective use of improved
market knowledge) (Cf.
Implementation Manual);
vii) studies, audits and
monitoring exercises
carried out by MPEPFE
(Cf. SAR Annex 2 Table
4);
viii) joint review of
budgetary allocation and
PIP.



- 45 -
ANNEX 6
Pilot Agricultural Services Project
Supervision Input (in staff weeks)
Approximate Date          Activity            Expected Staff       Staff Inputs  Staff Inputs
Requirements           (HQ)         (field)
1997            Implementation        IDA Task Manager          1 sw          5 sw
February        Workshop and Work        Project Consultant
Program Review         IFAD Controller
Extension Specialist
1997              Supervision          IDA Task Manager         1 sw          3 sw
May-June                                Extension Specialist
1997         Supervision and Work     IDA Task Manager          2 sw          6 sw
October          Program Review          Market Specialist
Extension Specialist
1998            Supervision and       IDA Task Manager          2 sw          5 sw
March          Procurement Review     Communication Spec.
Extension Specialist
1998         Supervision and Work     IDA Task Manager          1 sw          4 sw
September         Program Review          M & E Specialist
1999            Supervision and       IDA Task Manager          2 sw          5 sw
March         Preliminary Review of    Extension Specialist
Project Results



I   |COMOROS
Agriculture and Environment Pilot Project
Implementation Timetable
Tasks                SAR para.   Responsibility    Pre-implementation      PYl                PY2                 PY3
Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  04  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  01  Q2  Q3  Q4
Pre-implementation Activities                      ___
Pre-negotiation                                                      _              ___
PAC - TORs and composition          4.1    MPEPFE             X
NegoUations (IFAD)                           Govt & IFAD         X   X
Negotiations (IDA)                            Govt & IDA                  X
Board Presentation (IFAD)                     I FAD                       X
Board Presentation (IDA)                      IDA                              X
Project Implementation Plan                   MPEPFE                           X
Effectiveness (IFAD & IDA)                    GovVIIFAD/IDA                         X
Project Implementation Seminar        3.13   MPEPFE/PAC/Coord.                      X
Work Planning Related Activities 
Village-Level Arrsngements.                                                                                                                   
Selection of Participatng Vtillages  4.3   PSC & VAl. Auth.               X                                                                              ON
Creation of Project Village Committe   4.4   Village Authorities               X                                               _
SelectiorVAppintment of Consultants_
Extension Contractors             4.6    MPEPFE & PSC                          X             X                   X
Extension Monitoring              4.6    MPEPFE & PSC                          X
INRAPE Master Plan                4.7    MPEPFE & PSC                               X
Participatory Approach            4.8    MPEPFE & PSC                               X
Chamber of Commerce               4.8    MPEPFE & PSC    __                  _      X
SNAC (collect mkt data)           4.8    MPEPFE & PSC                               X             _         _
Market Monitoring Cons.           4.8    MPEPFE & PSC                                    X  ___
Work Program Prep. & Review
Extension                        4.12   MPEPFE & PSC                                X    _x                 X
INRAPE                           4.12   INRAPE & PSC                           X         X                  X
Associations                      4.12   Assoc & PSC                           X  _      X                  X
MPEPFE                           4.12   MPEPFE                                 X         X                  X
_____________ tz -                                                      1 zlz _{z ztz - JdzH
.                   . ~         i-



I    ICOMOROS         I                 I              I
Agriculture and Environment Pilot Project
ImplementaflonnTme blel  I__ 
Tasks                 SAR para.   Responsibilib    Pre-implementaton           PY1                 PY2                 PY3
01  02  Q3  Q4  Q1   Q2  Q3  Q4  01  02  Q3  04  Q1  02  Q3  Q4
Continuous Activities                                                                                                                     _ 
Extension                          3.5    MPEPFE & Cons.  ___                    _____ X__ X    X                                      XX
Extension Monitoring                3.5    Cons.                        _        .      X               X    X    X   X    X    X    X  X
Mkt Info Collection and Transmissio    3.9    Cons.                                     X    X    X    X    X   X   X    X    X    X    X
Market & Assoc. Monitoring          3.9    Cons.              ==             =          X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
Training & Support to Assoc.        3.9   INRAPE & Cons.                _               X    X    X    X    X   X    X    X   X    X   X
Projed Monitoring                  3.10   MPEPFE                                        X X       X    X    X   X     X    X    X   X   X
Other Activities
Procurement of Material            3.20   Coord.              _                   X    X          X    X              X    X
Rehab. INRAPE Doc. Center          3.16   Local Contractor                              X    X  I                        I
PIP Review                         3.28   Cons/GovtlDonors   ===                                  X                   X                   X
Audits                             4.11   Auditors                                      X                   X                    X
Studies
INRAPE Master Plan                  3.8    Consultant                                        X   X
Assessment of Extension Experimen    3.7    Consultant                                                                X    X    X
Agricultural Baseline Study        3.10   Consultant                               X                   ___
Rural Finance                      3.10   Consultant                                                                  X  _
Land Tenure Review                 3.10   Consultant                                    X
Implementation Completion Report    4.13   Consultant                                                                                     X
Workshops
INRAPE Master Plan                         INRAPE                                  X                             ___
Associa_ons_Consuan t_x_                                                                                                                                OQ
Associations                               Consultant               X   _X                                  X   __               X   o- -
-J



RFI des Comores
Projet Pilote Agriculture-Environnement
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF AGRiCULTURE SERVICES
(' OD0 FC at 1995 pricem)
Without ProJec                 YEARS
0             1             2             3             4             5             6              7             0             5             10
Increm i valor of Soductic drqn. nilho proru
Toivtlt val oof production                        321,379        336.241       353.964       371.688       407,135       419.349       431.930        444,t8t       453,786       458,323       462.907
locormeo  v0 vale of productio                                     8.t62        26.586        44,309        79.757        91,971       104,551        117,509       126,407       130,945       135,528
Ioveo11,11i In o.cltoroLI NEXiMr 110CI oDhelcol cumtlr. 3
Agrkculkaral reac :h
Locai co& (34 %)                                                   1.493         1.061          539
Foreia achxe (665)                                                 4.002         2,t44         1.445
Sub-zeal nocb                                                      5,495         3.905         1,9t4
Aprub ecautmion
Local coat (20)                                                   22.717        13.075        12,2t2
Foreip h *eouagc (t0S)                                           125,4t4        72.225        67.842
Suroi cotrotm                                                    148,201        t5.301        80,123
it4at lnteforuti at comwoiktloa
Local coo (74S)                                                    2.947         1.382         1,074
Foremip exd       (26S)                                            1.430           671          521
Sb.oelu macaing iol moutiom et cr_kunu iod                         4.377         2,053         1.594
Toa Inverme  bue cam  at e icamk price                           15,0173        91,258        t3,702
Rarcuarrsl pcartfmdall-cA
AVioi  recmh
LocalIcs(60S)                                                        III            51            St            51            51            51             51            51 1                        51                                                         I
Faeep gechaa (40S)                                                   103            47            47            47            47            47             47            47            47             47
Sr-lotal rmerch                                                      214            98            98            98            98             9t            9i            9t            9t             98
Agrlcuturia exoloo
L,ow loegsl(60%)                                                   9.950         9.950         9.950         4.411         4,411          4.411         4.411         4.411          4.411         4.411
ForIp cxchage (405)                                                9,160         9.160         9.160         4,061         4.061          4.061         4,061         4,061          4,061         4.061
Suh-toweoursa                                                     19.110         19.110       19,110         8,473          8.473         8.473         8.473          8.473         8,473         8,473
M ark.ft Ioi  d coetanacun
Loc citam (60S)                                                    1.140          1.140          643           322           322            322           322           322            322           322
Foreltn cochs  (405)                                               1.049          1,049          592           296           296            296           296           296            296           296
Subeahaoxioelo                                                     2.189         2.189         1,235           618           618            61t           618           61t            618           61t
Soh-etsorwrecmcoo a ecanoeukpricm                                 21,513        21.397        20,443         9.188          9.1t          9 9.188       9.1U8          9,1U          9.1iit        9,1U
T(ALiECONOt4ICCOSTS                                              179.586        112.655      104.145          9,188         9,188         9,1U           9,1U8         9,18U         9.188         9.1U 
NET INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC BENEFTS                                *170,724        -86,069       -59.835       70.568i        82.782        95,363        10t,321       117.219       121.756       126.340                                                    0
No prea   vnwoe   0 15S OCC                                       14.735
Net pesen wortb * 100    OCC                                      92.755
Sens"tiv8yQ  15% OCC
5 yrs of b.   ir6s  Intead of10                   .171,374
12 bonsit  yrs 2-10: lses sam                          -I 19.072



RFI des Comores
Projet Pilote Agriculture-Environnement
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF ACRICULTURr SERVICES
( 000 FC at 1995 prices)
Without                         YEARS
Project                   1              2             3             4             S              6             7              S             9            10
Incremental value of onrvuction durin, plot projeet
Totil net value of production                      390,031       413,335        436,632       459,929       483,225       497,722        512,654       528,033       53S,594        543,980       349.420
InerenentlA et valueofproduction                                  23.297        46,594         69.890        93.1S7        107,6t4       122,616       137,995        148,556       153,942       159,382
Investment In sariculturna servimes (Inclu. physical eontinp I
Agricultural ecth                                                  5,228         3,714          1.887
Apicultural extension                                            133,220         77,829        73.105
Marketing information et comnunication                             4,741          2,223         1.727
Investment base corts                                             145.188        13.767        76,720
Recunma Cog for auriecltunal services
Agrkulwal reftamc                                                    221            101           lot           101           101            101           101           1t1            101           101
AgrkIIwrI exention                                                 19,741        19,741        19.741         8,753         8.753          8,753         8,753         8,753          8,753         S,753
Marting Inforttion  et conmunbeaton                                2,262          2,262         1.276           638           638            638           638           638            63a8          63
Total wfreem  costs                                               22,224         2,1104        21,119         9,492          9.492         9,492         9,492          9.492         9.492         9.492      4
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                  167,412       105,871        97,838         9,492          9,492         9,492         9,492          9,492         9,492         9.492
NET INCREMENTAL FINANCIAL BENEFITS                               .144,116       .59,278       -27,948        83,695         98,192       113,124       128,503        139,064       144,450       149.890
Net preset wwth @ 15% OCC                                         128,943
Net prent waft a 10% OCC                                         230,854
Sensivlty @ 15% OCC
5 yrs of benefits instead of 1O                    -91,845
112 benefits yrs 2-10; losses same                      -29,787
'0









IMAGING
Report No:       15174 CON
Type: SAP



