Report No. PIC4179
Project Name                   Comoros-Pilot Agricultural  r@  c N
Services Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Agriculture
Project ID                     KMPA604
Borrower                       Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Rural Development, Fisheries
and Environment Ministry of Production,
Livestock, Fisheries, Forestry and
Environment, Box 41, Moroni, Comoros
MDRPE
Contact: The Secretary General Ministry of
Production, Livestock, Fisheries, Forestry
and Environment
Phone: (269) 73.30.63
Fax: (269) 73.30.11
Date this PID prepared         July 29, 1996
Date initial PID prepared      October 1, 1994
Actual Appraisal date          September 11, 1996
Actual Board date              December 23, 1996
1.   Country Background.   The Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
and is an indian ocean archipelago of three islands, inhabited by a
largely homogeneous Islamic population of about 498,000, with a GNP per
capita estimated at US$490 in 1995. The economy is predominantly rural
and highly dependent on external assistance, averaging about US$118 per
capita per annum over 1989-95. Since independence in 1975 the country
has experienced considerable economic change. Following a decade of
growth bubble generated by externally-financed infrastructure projects,
real GDP growth slowed significantly from an annual average of 6 percent
in the early 1980s to 0.6 percent over 1985-95. The decline in economic
performance is a manifestation of the country's developmental
constraints, which include a narrow export base, weak institutional
capacity exacerbated by poor economic management, as well as an
unfavorable private sector environment.
2.   To address its macroeconomic imbalances and remove some of the
structural constraints to growth, the Comoros government launched an
adjustment program in 1991, which made considerable progress in
liberalizing imports, removing price controls, and improving the
environment for private sector activity, as well as reducing the fiscal
burden arising from the parastatal sector. Subsequently, After initial
delays caused by an unsettled political climate in which the fiscal
situation deteriorated further, the implementation of the program
accelerated and was satisfactorily completed at end 1994. Domestic
savings improved from negative 3.7 percent of GDP in 1991 to zero



percent in 1993. The budgetary deficit (before capital grants) fell
from 13.1 percent of GDP in 1991 to 7.4 percent in 1993, owing to
expenditure cuts through civil service reduction. The external current
account deficit (before capital grants) was marginally reduced from 11.1
percent of GDP in 1991 to 10.5 percent in 1993, as imports declined in
response to the reduced aggregate demand pressure, exports began to
recover, and tourism receipts started to increase. The Comorian Franc
was devalued by 33 percent in foreign currency in January 1994, in
concert with the 50 percent devaluation that was effected by other CFA
countries. The economy's response to this devaluation was mixed,
however, with slow down of economic activities registered in trade and
agriculture sector, which contributed to a real GDP decline averaging
2.3 percent a year in 1994-95. Export performance for traditional
commodities was poor, in particular, because of the nearly 50 percent
drop in export prices of vanilla in the world market. Real GDP growth
for 1996 which has been stimulated by the picking-up of tourism and the
growing private sector confidence following the march election, is
estimated at 2 percent.
3.   Economic reforms in Comoros have been complicated by the parallel
efforts at introducing political reforms. Recent Presidential and
legislative elections held in March 1996 represent a major landmark in
this country's political transition process, and it is anticipated that
this will usher in a period of relative ca. The new government has
recognized the need for the country to improve its economic management
and performance, and has started to take measures to improve budgetary
revenues and cut expenditures, as well as create a more conducive
environment for private sector investment through adoption of a
comprehensive privatization program for the public enterprises.     A
second adjustment program is being prepared, with assistance from the
Bank and the IMF, to support these reforms as well as consolidate the
gains from the earlier adjustment efforts. Specifically, the second
adjustment program would focus on three main areas where reforms are
crucial to maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment and enhancing
supply response. The three areas of focus include (i) strengthened
public sector management to achieve macroeconomic stability and overall
economic efficiency; (ii) private sector development, relying partially
on the Cross-Border Initiative adopted by the Eastern and Southern
African and Indian Ocean countries to stimulate trade and investment;
and (iii) selected measures in tourism, agriculture and environment, as
well as transport, with good prospects of early results in export
diversification, employment creation and poverty reduction.
4.   Sector Background.   Agriculture accounts for 40 percent of GDP and
provides the livelihood of 70-80 percent of the people and about 50
percent of total export earnings, with activities concentrated on the
production of food crops as well as the three main export commodities
(vanilla, cloves and perfume essence). Because of its predominance in
the economy, the agricultural sector will likely remain the foundation
of the Comoros' growth in the foreseeable future. The utilization of
the country's agricultural potential has however been stifled by several
policy distortions, including unfavorable fiscal/tariff regimes,
exacerbated by structural and institutional factors. Although many of
these policy distortions have been or are being corrected through the
adjustment process, agricultural supply response has remained muted due
- 2 -



to the persistence of structural and institutional constraints,
including primarily the inadequacy of the agricultural services delivery
system. To adequately respond to the challenges of agricultural
development, the Government has adopted an agricultural strategy in
1994, whose principal objectives are: (a) to enhance rural incomes as
a means of alleviating rural poverty and promoting food security; (b) to
expand and diversify agricultural exports as well as broaden outlets for
domestically-produced, non-traded food products; and (c) to promote a
self-sustainable, private-sector led agricultural development.
5.   Project Rationale and Objectives.   Achieving the Government's
strategic objectives in the agricultural sector requires a long-term
commitment and investments in strengthening institutional capacity; a
sustained effort in addressing structural constraints; and continuous
improvements in the legal, institutional and policy framework. The
proposed Pilot Project constitutes a vehicle for initiating this
process. As a first step in a long-term process of involvement, it
would, within the framework of the GOC's 1994 agriculture development
strategy, and as a complement to on-going, Bank-supported adjustment
efforts, support the establishment of an efficient, cost-effective and
user-responsive agricultural services delivery system with private
sector involvement. It would also foster the development of
institutions and capacity in both the private and public sectors as well
as assist in formulating appropriate policy and institutional frameworks
for agricultural development.
6.   The specific objectives of the project would be twofold.    First,
through actual testing on the ground, it would seek to produce
replicable service systems that, if successful, could be established
nation-wide, with full collaboration from the Government's partners in
the donor community (hence the "pilot" appellation of the project).
Second, the project would support the strengthening of the country's
capacity for sector planning, monitoring and coordination.
7.   Project Description.   The proposed Pilot Project, to be
implementedover a three-year period, would focus on improving
agricultural services and strengthening institutional capacity in
planning and monitoring the activities in the sector. The Agricultural
services component (US$1.3 million) would seek to (i) mainstream
participation and client consultation in the delivery of efficient and
cost-effective agricultural services; (ii) test the performance and
effectiveness of private extension contractors working directly with
farmers, against the existing public sector services; (iii) re-orient
the country's 'research' facility towards the collection, evaluation and
propagation of technological information and making this information
more easily accessible to all users; and (iv) support the development of
groups and associations and enhance communications through national
media on agriculture techniques and market related issues. The Planning
and Monitoring Support component (US$0.3 million) would focus its
activities in strengthening the capacity of MPEPFE for planning,
monitoring, policy formulation and general internal management. In
addition, it would also support studies and reflections aimed at
reformulating rural credit and land tenure policies.
8.   Project Financing.   Total project costs, net of taxes, are
-3 -



estimated at US$2.8 million. IDA would finance US$1.6 million,
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would contribute
about US$1 million, and the Government about US$0.2 million.
9.   Project Implementation.   The MPEPFE, through its Secretary General
(SG), will have overall responsibility for implementing the project.
The latter will be supported by a Project Steering Committee (PSC).
Day-to-day operational support will be provided by a national
coordinator. Individual project activities would be carried out by: (a)
private sector individual contractors or firms, including NGOs
(extension by private agents; component monitoring; data collection;
media preparation work; training; studies; and audits); (b) specialized
public sector agencies operating under contract (INRAPE for research);
and (c) Ministry staff (public sector extension; overall project
monitoring). A detailed Project Implementation Plan, which is being
prepared by MPEPFE, would constitute the Government's own project
document.
10. Sustainability. Project design is geared towards expanding the
scope for private sector involvement in the delivery of agricultural
services, which supplements the weak public sector institutional
capacity. There are also efficiency gains and increased
cost-effectiveness accruing from the competition that will be introduced
into the system. The pilot experience could provide a basis for
supporting a more sustainable operation on a broader scale, during a
second phase of interventions. Other project features supportive of
long-term sustainability include the strengthening of the sector
institutional capacity to facilitate the efficient programming of scarce
budgetary resources and improve the overall efficiency of resource use;
the mainstreaming of client consultation in project activities
(including strengthening capacity in participatory development
techniques) to capture stakeholder interest and commitment in
agricultural development activities; and the orientation of extension
messages to promote sustainable utilization of natural resources.
11. Lessons From Previous IDA Involvement. IDA has financed two
previous agricultural operations in the Comoros The combined lessons
from these projects include: (i) project objectives should be kept
simple and should adequately reflect economic and marketing factors;
(ii) the agricultural innovations and technical recommendations to be
introduced by the project should be tailored to the real needs of
farmers; (iii) the Government's limited implementation capacity should
be addressed; (iv) project design should be based on a well-defined
sectoral strategy; (v) donor contributions should be coordinated; and
(vi) the training needs of the operation should be identified. The
above lessons are reflected in the proposed project through (a) focus on
pilot activities initially, to develop and test a suitable framework for
efficient and cost-effective service delivery, before scaling up efforts
during second phase; (b) extensive consultations with beneficiary
farmers and villagers throughout project preparation and foreseen during
implementation, to reflect fully their concerns and interests; (b)
up-front efforts at institutional capacity building, complemented with
involvement of the private sector in implementation of project
activities, to overcome capacity constraints and alleviate fiscal
burden; (c) close fitting with the Government's strategic objectives;
-4 -



(d) consultation with donors and close coordination with project
cofinancier (e) definition of training needs, and provision to meet
them, in all areas of project activities.
12. Project Benefits. The proposed Pilot Project seeks to support the
establishment of an efficient, cost-effective and user-responsive
agricultural services delivery system with private sector involvement.
It would promote economically feasible improvements to the farming
systems, cropping patterns and overall resource allocation at farm
level, relying initially on disseminating previously tested technology
and farming techniques, many of which are already used by commercially
oriented farmers, and could be made available to smaller farmers. Based
on the results obtained, the innovative approaches piloted by the
project could be eventually adopted by other donors. The project would
also foster the development of institutions and capacity in both the
private and public sectors as well as assist in formulating appropriate
policy and institutional frameworks for agricultural development. The
results from this first phase of intervention would assist in
reinforcing sector institutional capacity; help clarify viable,
sustainable and efficient frameworks for agricultural service delivery;
and inform policy choices on land use and rural credit. The main
benefits would accrue to farmers through increases in foodcrop
production and on-farm employment. Production is estimated
conservatively to increase by at least 20- over the project period based
on yield achieved presently by larger and more resourceful farmers in
the Comoros.
13.   Poverty Category.   Not applicable.
14. Environmental Aspects. An environmental category C has been
assigned to this project, which is expected to engender a beneficial
impact on the environment. Project activities would directly support
efforts towards improving sustainability of agricultural production.
Technical recommendations will support improved cultural practices and
prioritize environmental protection measures, for which there are proven
existing themes, including soil conservation, fertility restoration,
plant protection, agroforestry, as well as other erosion control
techniques.
15.  Program Objective Categories (POCs). The project supports three
POCs. It would help: (a) to accelerate growth in agriculture sector
and increase farmers' income by improving access to information on crop
technology, markets and commercial networks; (b) to develop human
capital through agricultural extension, training, support to farmers'
associations, and improvement of MPEPFE's capacity for planning and
monitoring; and (b) to protect the environment through agriculture
extension messages on soil conservation, fertility restoration.
16. Risk Assessment. Major risks that the project may face include:
(a) a low level of farmer participation and response due to the
lingering lack of credibility of existing agricultural services; and (b)
a low level of effective use of project-produced technological and
market information. An additional risk facing this project stems from
the budgetary constraints of the government and the possibility that the
latter would be unable to sustain financing of its share even at the
- 5 -



modest level projected. Regular monitoring of results and systematic
consultation with the beneficiaries should ensure that feedback to
project managers on the quality and impact of services enables them to
address gaps in implementation. Public finance issues are being
addressed in the context of the second structural adjustment program
under preparation. In addition, the government is currently seeking
alternative resources in the form of grant funds to cover its
contribution in order to reduce its dependence on fiscal resources.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 14, 1997.
- 6 -



