Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2931 COM
Development Credit Agreement
(Pilot Agricultural Services Project)
between
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 25, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2931 COM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 25, 1997, between ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE 
COMOROS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to $994,700 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and IFAD; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Comorian Franc" or "KMF" means the Borrower's currency unit;
 
(b)
"INRAPE" means Institut National de Recherche de l'Agriculture, de la 
Pche et de l'Environnement, the Borrower's Agriculture, Fisheries and Environment 
Research Institute,
established and existing under Law No. 95-09/AF of the Laws of the Borrower;
(c)
"MPEPFE" means Ministre de la Production, de l'Elevage, de la Pche, des 
Forts et de l'Environnement, the Borrower's Ministry of Production, Livestock, 
Fisheries, Forestry and Environment;
(d)
"National Coordinator" means the national coordinator referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(e)
"Project Account" means the project account referred to in Section 3.04 
of this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Implementation Plan Manual" means the project implementation 
plan manual referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
November 1, 1994, and  July 26, 1995, between the Borrower and the Association;
(h)
"PVC" means a project village committee established under the Project;
 
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
"SNAC" means Syndicat National des Agriculteurs Comoriens, the Borrower's 
National Farmers' Union; and
(k)
"UCCIA" means Union des Chambres de Commerce, de l'Industrie et de 
l'Agriculture, the Borrower's Chamber of Commerce for Industry and Agriculture.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Page  3
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Comorian Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the  Association, including appropriate protection against setoff, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the  Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1
commencing February 1, 2007 and ending August 1, 2036. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on August 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
Page  4
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more  after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such  installments, the Association on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in 
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through
MPEPFE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, 
administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the  Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan Manual.
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, in a commercial bank and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, an advance account in the currency of the 
Borrower (hereinafter referred to as Project Account), to be operated and maintained 
by the National Coordinator, into which it shall
advance deposits from time to time to provide its local currency counterpart 
contribution to the cost of the Project.
(b)
Unless the Association agrees otherwise, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
make an initial deposit of $17,500 equivalent, corresponding to 
the Borrower's 
estimated share of counterpart funds required for 
Project implementation 
during the first six-months; and
 
(ii)
thereafter, by January 31 and July 31 of each fiscal year, deposit 
into the 
Project Account an amount at least equivalent to the initial 
deposit referred 
to in (i) above.
 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:
Page  6
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the IFAD 
Loan or any 
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Project shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the IFAD Loan Agreement 
or the agreement providing for any other such 
loan or grant, or
 
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has submitted a Project Implementation Plan Manual, 
acceptable to the Association;
(c)
the Project Account has been duly opened, and the initial amount of 
$17,500 equivalent deposited therein; and
(d)
the Borrower has prepared draft bidding documents, acceptable to the 
Association, for the procurement of goods and services required for the Project during 
the first year following the
Effective Date.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Finances, du Budget
   de l'Economie et du Commerce Interieur
B.P. 324
Moroni
Comoros
Page  7
Telex:
245-MIEF-CAB KO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
By /s/ H.E. Said Hassan Said Hachim
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael Sarris
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of  expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the          % of
                         Credit Allocated     Expenditures
                           (Expressed in         to be
     Category              SDR Equivalent)      Financed
(1)  Civil works               7,000          100% of foreign
                                              expenditures and
                                              95% of local
                                              expenditures
(2)  Equipment and            88,000          100% of foreign
     furniture                                expenditures and
Page  8
                                              95% of local
                                              expenditures
(3)  Vehicles                  69,000         100% of foreign
                                              expenditures and
                                              95% of local
                                              expenditures
(4)  Consultants' services,   250,000         100%
     studies and audits
(5)  Training                  40,000         100%
(6)  Operating costs          195,000         90%
(7)  Refunding of             411,000         Amounts due
     Project Preparation                      pursuant to
     Advance                                  Section 2.02 (c)
                                              of this Agreement
(8)  Unallocated               40,000
     Total                  1,100,000
                            =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred 
by MPEPFE under the Project on account of: (i) travel costs and allowances, (ii) 
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, (iii) office rent, supplies and utilities; and 
(iv) salaries of local contractual staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for consultants' services 
(firms) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, goods, works and 
consultants' services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, 
operating costs and training, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) produce 
replicable service systems for agriculture; and (b) strengthen its capacity to 
implement its agricultural strategy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural Services
 
1.
Agricultural Extension. Comparative evaluation of the performance and 
effectiveness of private contractors delivering extension services against that of the 
existing system of public sector extension workers operating in separate villages.
Page  9
2.
Research. (a) (i) Development of a master plan an operational Manual for INRAPE 
to define  its goals and appropriate organizational arrangements, having regard to the 
Borrower's constrained resources, farmers' expressed needs and the potential for the 
transfer of the public sector extension service to the private sector, and (ii) 
carrying out of a workshop for staff of INRAPE on said operational plan.
(b)
Collection, evaluation and repackaging of agricultural information 
involving, inter alia: (i) strengthening of INRAPE's documentation center, (ii) 
repatriation of information collected previously by foreign research institutes, (iii) 
production of technical papers on all crops that can be grown in the territory of the 
Borrower, (iv) creation of a digest of all research
findings, (v) production of a manual for end-users of agricultural technology, and 
(vi) establishment of liaison with research establishments of neighbouring countries 
and international research organizations.
(c)
Implementation of crop protection activities to combat crops diseases, 
including leaf spot (cercospora cajani), a wide-spread disease affecting banana and 
pigeon pea stands.
3.
Communications and Markets Information. (a) Training of members of groups and 
associations  including PVCs), extension contractors and public sector agricultural 
staff in participatory approach techniques.
(b)
Strengthening the operational capacity of such groups and associations 
through: (i) training; and (ii) the provision of equipment.
(c)
Development of local capacity for gathering and analyzing market 
information, and disseminating it to farmers and other interested parties through the 
national media.
Part B:
Planning and Monitoring Support
 
1.
Strengthening, through training and technical advisory services, of the capacity 
of the MPEPFE's Planning Division, and its central and regional directorates for  
agriculture to:
(a)
formulate medium- and long-term public investment and expenditure 
programs, as well as sector development plans for each of the islands of the 
archipelago;
(b)
coordinate, monitor and evaluate implementation of sector projects and 
activities; and 
(c)
carry out sector-wide studies including: (i) a basic economic study; (ii) 
a project harmonization study; (iii) a rural finance study; and (iv) a land tenure 
study.
2.
Acquisition of office equipment and light vehicles to support above activities.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  10
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works shall be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to 
a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and 
resources to successfully complete the contract.
2.
International Shopping
 
Equipment of a specialized nature up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
 
Furniture and equipment (other than equipment referred to in paragraph 2 of this 
Part C) estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $54,000 equivalent, as well as items required under 
Category (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  11
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $50,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $20,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
MPEPFE, through its Secretary General, shall be responsible for the 
overall coordination of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
appoint a National Coordinator to be responsible for the 
day-to-day management 
of the Project, including coordination of 
procurement, disbursement and 
accounting activities, 
preparation of annual work program and progress 
reports, and 
supervision of the recruitment and performance of 
sub-contractors; and
(ii)
establish a Project Steering Committee, whose functions, 
composition and terms 
of reference shall be acceptable to the 
Association, to advise the Secretary 
General on the implementation of 
the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
prepare and submit to the Association an implementation plan manual for 
the Project (hereinafter referred to as Project Implementation Plan Manual), giving 
details of all procurement
and disbursement arrangements, performance indicators and other administrative, 
financial and organizational arrangements agreed upon with the Association for 
purposes of implementation and
monitoring of the Project, including details of the criteria referred to in paragraph 
6 of this Schedule; and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the 
Project Implementation Plan Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment, 
abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project.
Page  12
3.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators referred to in paragraph 2 
(a) of this Schedule, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than October 31 of each year, undertake, in conjunction with 
the Association, a joint annual review of the Project, during which they shall 
exchange views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and 
the performance by the Borrower of its respective obligations under this Agreement 
including:
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Project, 
having regard to the indicators referred to in sub-paragraph 
(a) of this 
paragraph; and
 
(ii)
an annual review of the Borrower's public expenditure program for 
the 
agricultural sector and the environment;
 
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in 
particular, of the various matters to be discussed at such review; and
(d)
following each annual review, undertake to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted 
in the implementation
of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon 
between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its review or approval, as the 
case may be:
(a)
not later than September 30 of each year, a proposed annual work program 
for the forthcoming fiscal year, giving details of proposed budgetary allocations and 
disbursement
estimates, proposed procurement and training activities, and such other particulars as 
the Association may require, including, where applicable, an evaluation of the results 
of the training
program for the current fiscal year; 
(b)
semiannual progress reports on the status of the Project to be submitted 
not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year, including semi-annual 
procurement reports giving details of:
(i)
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the 
Project, including 
best estimates of allowances for price contingencies;
 
(ii)
revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, 
bidding, 
contract award and completion time for individual 
contracts; and
(iii)
status of compliance with aggregate limits prescribed for specific 
procurement procedures; 
and
 
(c)
reports as needed on the award of individual contracts under the Project.
 
5.
For purposes of Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
three months after the Effective Date, conclude an agreement, on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association, with SNAC for the collection of data for analysis by 
UCCIA, as well as an agreement, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, 
with UCCIA for the coordination of Part A.3 of the Project, and for the collation and 
analysis of information so collected.
6.
The Borrower shall establish criteria acceptable to the Association for the 
Page  13
selection of villages to be used to test pilot activities under the Project, which 
shall include criteria
based on the demonstrated interest of such villages in activities financed under the 
Project, as evidenced, inter alia, by the creation of PVCs.
7.
The Borrower shall enter into contracts, satisfactory to the Association, with 
all external agencies carrying out extension activities under Part A of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of KMF40,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
KMF20,000,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 200,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Page  14
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
