Page  1
July 6, 2000 
His Excellency 
Sououndi Abdou Toyb 
Ministre des Finances, du Budget et du Plan 
Ministère des Finances, du Budget et du Plan  
Moroni 
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
COMOROS:
Pilot Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 2931 COM)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the “Agreement”) for the 
above-referenced Project, dated February 25, 1997, between the Islamic Federal 
Republic of the Comoros (the "Borrower”) and the International Development Association 
(the “Association”).  We also refer to your letter dated May 23, 2000, requesting 
amendments to the Agreement.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to your request and 
consequently proposes to hereby amend the Agreement as indicated in the Attachment 
hereto.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Borrower, by 
countersigning and dating the form of confirmation on the two original copies of this 
letter provided and returning one original, as countersigned, to us.  Upon receipt by 
the Association of the copy of this letter countersigned by you, this amendment shall 
become effective as of the date of countersignature of this letter by you. 
Sincerely,
By /s/ Hafez Ghanem Hafez M. H. Ghanem 
Country Director for Comoros 
Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
By /s/ Assoumany Aboudou
Authorized Representative
DATE:
July 28, 2000
Attachment
1.
Section 1.02. of the Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
paragraph (c) is amended to read as follows:
“(c) 
“MPE” means Ministère de la Production et de l’Environnement, the 
Borrower’s 
Ministry of Production and Environment;”
(b)
paragraphs (j) and (k) are deleted; and
(c)
the following definitions are added:
“Beneficiary” means a farm producer association to whom, or for whose 
benefit, a 
Grant (as hereinafter defined) is made, or proposed to be made;  
Page  2
“DRA” means Direction 
Régionale de l’Agriculture, the MPE’s regional 
directorate for agriculture in each of the 
three islands of the archipelago; 
“Financing Agreement” means an agreement to be entered 
into between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary for the purposes of carrying out a Subproject  (as 
hereinafter defined); “Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by the 
Borrower to finance a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part C of the 
Project; 
"Operating Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 7 of 
Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and setting out, inter alia, criteria, procedures 
and guidelines for the 
identification, selection and implementation of 
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), as the 
same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Operating 
Manual;  “Regional 
Approval Committee” means the multidisciplinary technical committee 
responsible for the approval of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), in each of the 
three  islands of the archipelago;
“Subproject” means a specific activity financed, or proposed to be 
financed under 
Part C of the Project; 
“Subproject Management Committee” means the committee to be established 
by each 
Beneficiary for the purposes of identifying, preparing and 
supervising its Subproject; and
“Technical Support Agency” means the technical agency responsible for, in 
each of the 
three islands of the archipelago, the appraisal, management and overall 
monitoring and 
supervision of the Subprojects, and the training of the 
Beneficiaries and the village 
extension agents.”
2.
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“(a)
The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to 
be financed our of the proceeds of the Credit; 
and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association  shall so agree, to be paid) by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit 
of a Beneficiary under a 
Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for a Subproject to 
be financed under Part C of the Project, and in respect of which 
withdrawal 
from the Credit Account is requested.”
3.
Section 2.03 of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall 
establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.”
4.
Paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“(a)
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project through 
MPE with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate technical, 
administrative, financial and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.”
5.
Paragraph (b) (ii) of Section 3.04 of the Agreement is deleted.
6.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended to read as 
set forth in Annex 1 to this letter.
7.
Paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs 
incurred by 
MPE under the Project on account of: (i) travel costs and allowances; 
(ii) maintenance of 
vehicles and equipment; (iii) office rent, supplies and 
utilities; and (iv) salaries of 
local contractual staff, but excluding 
salaries of civil servants.”
Page  3
8.
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in 
respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) 
expenditures under Category (9) unless: (i) the Borrower has 
adopted an Operating Manual, 
both in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) the Grants have been 
made in accordance with the criteria, 
procedures and terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in paragraph 7 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.”
9.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, 
works and consultants’ 
services (firms) under contracts not exceeding 
$20,000 equivalent, operating costs and 
training, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.” 
10.
Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended by adding the following paragraph reading 
as follows:
“5.
It is understood that the percentages in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule 
have been calculated on the basis of the provisions in the Borrower’s 
Arrêté No. 00-133/MFBP 
dated June 9, 2000,  which exempt the goods, equipment, 
supplies, operating costs, works and 
services to be financed under the Credit from 
taxes and customs duties levied by the 
Borrower.  If any change is made to said 
Arrêté which has the effect of levying taxes or 
customs duties on such 
goods, equipment, supplies, operating costs, works or services, the 
percentages 
referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.”
11.
Part A of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended as follows: 
(a)  paragraph 1 is amended to read as follows:
“1.  Agricultural Extension.  Strengthening, through training and technical 
advisory 
services, of the capacity of the village extension agents and farm 
producer associations.  
In relation thereto, acquisition of agricultural equipment 
and inputs, and organization of 
workshops. 
(b)
Paragraphs 2 (a) and 3 are deleted, and, accordingly, paragraphs 2 (b) 
and 2 (c) are renumbered as paragraphs 2 (a) and 2 (b), respectively.
12.
Paragraph 1 of Part B of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
“1.  Strengthening, through training and technical advisory services, of the 
capacity of the 
MPE’s Planning Division, and its central and regional directorates 
for agriculture to 
coordinate, monitor and evaluate implementation of sector 
projects and activities, including 
Subprojects.”
13.
Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended by adding a Part C reading as follows:
“Part C:  Farm Producer – Initiated Activities
Provision of Grants for the financing of Subprojects initiated by farm 
producers 
consisting of the construction and equipment of small 
infrastructure for production, 
transformation, storage and marketing of farm 
products.”
14.
Schedule 3 to the Agreement is amended to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this 
letter.
15.
Schedule 4 to the Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
Paragraph 1 (a) is amended to read as follows:
Page  4
“1.
(a)  MPE, through its Secretary General, shall be responsible for the 
overall 
coordination of the Project.”
(b)
Paragraph 5 is deleted and, accordingly, paragraphs 6 and 7 are 
renumbered paragraphs 5 and 6, respectively.
(c)
The following paragraphs are added:
“7.
(a)  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: (i) apply 
the criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the 
Operating Manual; and (ii) 
not amend, or waive, or permit to be amended or 
waived, the Operating Manual, or any 
provision thereof, in a manner which, in 
the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
(b) 
Without limitations upon the provisions of paragraph 7 (a) above, 
no 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit unless the 
concerned Regional Approval Committee has determined, on the 
basis of an appraisal conducted 
by the relevant DRA with the assistance of the 
regional representatives of the relevant 
ministries, in accordance with 
the guidelines set forth in the Operating Manual, that the 
Subproject satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified below and in more detail in the 
Operating 
Manual, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(i) 
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary, with or 
without the 
assistance of the relevant Technical Support Agency;
(ii) 
the Subproject shall be for any of the types of activities 
referred to in Part 
C of the Project; 
(iii)  the Subproject shall be economically, financially, environmentally 
and 
technically sound in accordance with the standards specified 
in the Operating 
Manual;
(iv) 
adequate arrangements are in place for the financing of 
maintenance and other 
incremental recurrent costs related to the 
Subproject;
(v) 
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth 
in the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower 
relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection;
(vi) 
the Beneficiary shall provide at least 10% of the estimated 
Subproject costs 
in the form of cash, and 10% (or 5% if so approved by 
the MPE in accordance 
with criteria acceptable to the Association) 
of the estimated Subproject costs 
in the form of land, materials, 
labor or other services; and
(vii)  no Grant shall be in excess of six million four hundred thousand 
Comorian 
Francs (KMF 6,400,000) in case the Beneficiary’s 
contribution is equal to at 
least 20% of the estimated Subproject 
costs, or six million eight hundred 
thousand Comorian Francs 
(KMF 6,800,000) in case the Beneficiary’s 
contribution 
is equal to at least 15% of the estimated Subproject costs.
(c) 
Applications for Grant to finance Subprojects shall be prepared by 
the 
Beneficiaries, with or without the assistance of the relevant Technical 
Support Agency, and 
submitted to the respective DRA, which shall, if approved by 
such DRA, refer them to the 
respective Regional Approval Committee for its 
approval.
(d) 
Where the respective Regional Approval Committee approves an 
application for a 
Grant, the Regional Approval Committee refers such application to 
the Borrower for 
financing.
(e)  
The composition of each Regional Approval Committee shall be as 
Page  5
indicated in  the Operating Manual.  The Technical Support Agencies shall meet the 
criteria specified in 
the Operating Manual.
(f)
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, 
to be 
concluded between the Borrower and the Beneficiary, under terms 
and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, 
shall include the following:
(i)
financing to be on a grant basis;
(ii) 
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the 
Operating 
Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound 
environmental, technical, financial and managerial 
standards and to maintain 
adequate records to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(iii)
the requirement that : (A) the goods, works, and services to be 
financed from 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and \0b(B) such goods, works and 
services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(iv) 
the right of the Borrower to inspect, by itself, or jointly with 
the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works, sites and 
construction included in the Subproject, the 
operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents;
(v) 
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the 
Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding 
the administration, operations 
and financial conditions of the 
Subproject; and
(vi) 
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary 
to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon 
failure by the 
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations 
under its Financing Agreement.
(g) 
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its review, 
semiannual and 
annual progress reports on the status of Part C of the Project, 
including regular 
beneficiary assessment and beneficiary feedback 
reports and Subprojects completion reports.”
Annex 1
“SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
     7,000
100% 
(2)
Equipment and  furniture
   104,000 
100%
(3)
Vehicles
    10,000
100% 
Page  6
(4)
Consultants’services,          120,000
100%
studies and audits
(5)   Training  and workshops
    70,000
100%
(6)
Operating  costs
    30,000
100%
(7)
Refunding of 
   410,000
Amount due pursuant 
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) 
Advance
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
0
(9)
Grants for Subprojects         349,000
100% of amounts
under Part C of the 
disbursed
Project
TOTAL
 1,100,000"
Annex 2
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
“Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
International Shopping
Equipment of a specialized nature up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Furniture and equipment (other than equipment referred to in paragraph 1 of this 
Page  7
Part C) estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $54,000 equivalent, as well as items required under 
Category (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation 
Goods and works required for Part C of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures specified below in paragraph 4 (Procurement of Small 
Works). 
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: 
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrower” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Page  8
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by the Technical Support Agencies shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, as specified in the 
Operating Manual. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
