Report No. PID6477
Project Name                     Philippines-Banking System Reform Loan (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Finance
Project ID                       PHPE56524
Borrower                         Republic of Philippines
Implementing Agency              Bangko Sentral Ng Pilipinas
A. Mabini Street Corner
Vito Cruz, Malate
Manila, Philippines
Tel:   (63-2) 524-7011
Department of Finance
Fax:   (63-2) 521-9495
5-Storey Building
BSP Complex
A. Mabini Street
Manila, Philippines
Tel:   (63-2) 525-0380
Fax:   (63-2) 522-3987
Date PID prepared                May 29, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           August 1998
Projected Board Date             December 1998
Background
The proposed loan responds to a request from the Philippine authorities
for assistance from the World Bank in early 1998. The specific request was for
technical assistance and balance of payments support to strengthen the
financial sector and to provide a buffer against the uncertainties associated
with the current external financing environment.
Since this request, the Bank has provided technical assistance in a
number of areas within the financial sector including banking, corporate
sector, contractual savings and housing finance. In addition, the Bank will
provide technical assistance through a Policy and Human Resources Development
grant recently approved by Japan to strengthen supervision capabilities within
the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) and Philippines Deposit Insurance
Corporation (PDIC), and to strengthen the Securities and Exchange Commission's
(SEC) capacity to address issues relating to corporate distress.
The focus of the proposed loan relates to banking reform since this is
the area most immediately impacted by the East Asian financial crisis. The
Philippine banking system has withstood the impact of the regional crisis much
better than most other market economies in the region. Nevertheless, in view
of the magnitude of financial market shocks already experienced and the
uncertain evolution of regional developments, initiating a credible package of
reforms provides the best means for safeguarding the soundness of the banking
system on a sustainable basis.



Objectives
The purpose of the proposed loan is to strengthen the banking system and
enable it to better withstand current difficulties and future shocks through a
comprehensive medium-term reform program. The major elements of this program
are to:
- Improve on an ongoing basis the incentives for supervisors, bank owners,
and the market to strengthen the framework for prudent banking.
- Enhance the framework and the authorities' preparedness for early
intervention and resolution of troubled banks.
- Strengthen the financial performance of the Philippine National Bank (PNB).
- Reduce the incentives for regulatory and tax arbitrage across financial
institutions and between intermediation in different currencies.
Description
Reforms to strengthen the banking system to be supported by the proposed
loan include policies to: improve the prudential framework and supervisory
effectiveness; enhance transparency and market discipline; refine the
intervention and resolution framework for troubled banks; strengthen PNB; and
reduce regulatory arbitrage and intermediation costs. Thus the banking reform
agenda supports a program of raising capital requirements, adjusting
accounting standards including provisioning requirements towards international
best practice, requiring greater public disclosure by banks, reducing
intermediation costs in order to reduce borrower interest costs, tightening
entry standards, facilitating exit of insolvent institutions, and improving
the ability and incentive for bank supervisors to conduct their tasks.
Legislative changes are essential to the success of the program and include
proposals to enhance the supervisory and enforcement powers of the BSP and
PDIC and augment the legal authority of the BSP and PDIC to resolve troubled
banks.
Financing
A fast disbursing, tranched loan of $300 million is proposed. The
closing date of the loan is expected to be June 30, 2000.
Benefits and Risks
Maintaining a sustained effort to strengthen the banking system will
remain essential over the medium term as the banks face continued stress from
financial market turbulence. Associating the Bank with policy advice and
lending for banking reform can strengthen the quality of the reform program
and improve confidence in the banking system. Even assuming a rapid return to
normalcy within the region, the banking system would benefit from the
enhanced prudential framework envisaged under the reform program, in order to
exercise the appropriate degree of restraint in intermediating potentially
large private capital flows.
The Philippine economy remains vulnerable to a deterioration in the
regional environment, which would adversely impact financial markets. Even
-2 -



without such deterioration, the banking system faces a period of increased
stress from a slowdown in growth, high interest rates, peso depreciation and
weaker real estate prices that have strained corporate balance sheets. A
number of banks could fall short of capital adequacy requirements with the
increased burden of nonperforming loans. The Bank can mitigate risks within
the banking system by improving the quality of the banking reform program and
enhancing investor confidence, thereby improving its prospects of succeeding.
Environmental Aspects
In accordance with Bank guidelines, the proposed operation has been
placed in Category "U" and will not require an environmental assessment.
Poverty Category
Not applicable
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 13, 1998.
- 3 -



