Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 22824
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
B.ANKING SYSTEM REFORM LOAN
(Loan No. 4412-PHL)
December 14, 2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their official
|duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l



- 1i -
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 2001)
Currency Unit   =   Peso
1 peso   =   US$0.01923
US$1.00         51.98 pesos
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric System
FISCAL YEAR: January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APT   -   Asset Privatization Trust
BAP   -   Bankers Association of the Philippines
BSP   -   Bangko Sentral Ng Pilipinas
CAMEL   -   Capital, Asset Quality, Management, Earnings and Liquidity
CAS   -   Country Assistance Strategy
CPSD    -   Consolidated Public Sector Deficit
DBP   -   Development Bank of the Philippines
DOF   -   Department of Finance
DST   -   Documentary Stamp Tax
EFF   -   Extended Financing Facility
FCDU    -   Foreign Currency Deposit Units
GFI   -   Government-Owned Financial Institution
GDP   -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP   -   Gross National Product
GRT   -   Gross Receipts Tax
IFAC    -   Effects of Non-Application
NPL   -   Nonperforming Loan
PDIC    -   Philippines Deposit Insurance Corporation
PNB    -   Philippine National Bank
SCL   -   Single Currency Loan
SEC    -   Securities and Exchange Commission
SLIM    -   Solvency, Liquidity, Income and Management
SME   -   Small and Medium Enterprise
TA    -   Technical Assistance
VAT   -   Value-Added Tax
Vice President                             :    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director                           :     Robert V. Pulley, EACPF
Sector Director and Chief Economist        :    Homi Kharas, EASPR
ICR Task Manager                           :    Thang-Long Ton, EASPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
BANKING SYSTEM REFORM LOAN
(Loan No. 4412-PHL)
CONTENTS
I.  Project Data ........................................1
2.  Principal Performance Ratings ...........         .............................2
3.  Assessment of Development Objectives and Design,
and of Quality at Entry ........................................2
4.  Achievement of Objectives and Outputs ........................................6
5.  Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ......................... 13
6.  Sustainability .......................................                    14
7.  Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................     15
8.  Lessons Learned .......................................                   17
9.  Partner Comments ....................................... 19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators .23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits .24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs .24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components 25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance .26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Document -- Policy Matrix .27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
BANKING REFORM SYSTEM LOAN
(LOAN No. 4412-PHL)
Project ID: PH-56524                      Project Name: Banking System Reform Loan
Team Leaders: Sanjay Dhar/Hemant Shah     TL Unit: EASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                        Report Date: December 14, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Bankin S stem Reform Loan          L/C/TFNumber: 4412-PH
Country! Republic  of the  Philippines             Region: East Asia and
Department: /EASPR                                            Pacific Region
Sector/subsector. Finance/Banking
Key Dates                                                  Original Revised/Actual
Project Concept Document   01/28/1998      Effectiveness  12/29/1998     12/29/1998
Appraisal   08/03/1998
Approval   12/03/1998           Closing   06/30/2000        05/24/01
Borrower/lImplementing GOP/BSP
Agency.
Other Partners: JEXIM/JBIC
Staff                   At ICR preparation           At Appraisal
Vice President:         Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP  Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:       Robert V. Pulley, EACPF      Vinay Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Director:        Homi Kharas, EASPR           Jacques Loubert, EASFS
Team Leader at ICR:     Sanjay Dhar, EASPR           Sanjay Dhar, EASPR
ICR Primary Writer:     Thang-Long Ton, EASPR
Country  Team  Reviewer Sanjay Dhar, EASPR
for the ICR:



-2 -
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; HL = Highly Likely; UN = Unlikely, HUN = Highly
Unlikely, HU = Highly Unsatisfactory, H = High, SU = Substantial, M = Modest, N = Negligible)
2.1.  The principal performance ratings are as follows:
Outcome:                               U
Sustainability:                        UN
Institutional Development Impact:      M
Bank Performance:                      S
Borrower Performance:                  U
ICR                QAG (if available)
Quality at entry                       S                  not available
Project at Risk at any time            yes                not available
3. Assessment of Development Objectives, Design and Quality at Entry
3.1    Original Objective:
3.1.1. Background The Philippine banking system withstood the impact of the regional crisis
better than most neighboring market economies. Stronger capitalization in the top tier banks,
lower corporate sector leverage and greater experience with financial crises allowed the country
to better withstand the impact of the financial market shocks witnessed in the crisis aftermath,
and a systemic banking crisis was avoided. Nevertheless, the banking and corporate sectors have
both encountered prolonged periods of stress as the regional crisis was followed by a political
crisis that afflicted the previous administration (through January 2001) and the subsequent global
economic slowdown-each of which had adverse impacts on the economy, corporate
profitability and the banking system. The quality of bank assets has consequently deteriorated,
non-performing loans have risen to 18 percent, capital adequacy has weakened, and previously
strong earnings have fallen. During loan preparation in 1998, the country's banking system was
expected to go through a period of consolidation and retrenching, but the slow pace of recovery
since the 1998 recession has intensified the degree of stress experienced relative to initial
expectations.
3.1.2. The authorities recognized the importance of strengthening the banking system in the
aftermath of the 1997 crisis. A comprehensive reform agenda for the banking sector was
formulated with advice from the Bank and IMF. The agenda included: stronger prudential
standards and supervisory vigilance; enhanced market discipline through stricter disclosure
requirements and transparency; adoption of an intervention and resolution strategy for troubled
banks; and measures to strengthen Philippines National Bank (PNB), which, at the time, was the
second largest bank in the country, 46 percent government-owned, and in poor financial
condition.



- 3 -
3.1.3. Objectives. The Banking System Reform Loan (BSRL) was the Bank's response to the
government request to support its medium-term reform strategy to strengthen the banking system.
It aimed at assisting the government realize its vision of a more resilient banking system where
bank owners were expected to be buttressed by higher capital and stricter provisioning
requirements and subjected to more stringent scrutiny from supervisors (backed up by greater
legislative authority for supervisors) and market participants; and where banks would
subsequently be more discriminating in intermediating financial flows as they involved foreign
currency, major term transformation, or lending to volatile sectors. Specifically, the BSRL
addressed the following objectives:
* Improve on an ongoing basis the incentives for supervisors, bank owners, and the market to
strengthen the framework for prudent banking;
*  Enhance the framework and the authorities' preparedness for early intervention and
resolution of troubled banks;
*  Strengthen PNB towards the standards maintained by the top tier banks in the country; and
*  Reduce the incentives for regulatory and tax arbitrage across financial institutions and
between the peso and foreign currencies.
3.1.4.  Strengthening the prudential framework. The loan sought to improve the incentives for
supervisors, bank owners, and the market to strengthen the framework for prudent banking on a
continuing basis.
3.1.5. Refining the intervention and resolution strategy. The BSRL supported the authorities in
enhancing the framework and preparedness for early intervention and resolution of troubled
banks.
3.1.6. Strengthening government-owned or controlled banks. The overall soundness of the
banking system would be enhanced with the strengthening of the financial performance of PNB,
the second largest bank in the country at the time. PNB had suffered disproportionately during
the 1997 crisis as a result of ineffective governance and a continuation of politically-pressured
lending despite the reduction of government ownership to 46 percent. The effort to place PNB
on a firmer footing would aid in the overall strategy of the government in strengthening the
country's banking system.
3.1.7  Reducing regulatory arbitrage and intermediation costs. The objective here was to
reduce the incentives for regulatory and tax arbitrage across financial institutions and between
the peso and foreign currencies.
3.1.8. Legislative reform.  The BSRL recognized that the effectiveness of many of the
regulatory changes envisaged would require stronger legal authority for bank regulators. Hence,
legislative changes were considered integral to the program and included objectives to: protect
officials of the Monetary Board, BSP, and PDIC against suits arising out of their official conduct;



- 4 -
enhance supervisory and enforcement powers of BSP and PDIC; and augment the legal authority
of BSP to close insolvent banks and PDIC to promptly resolve closed banks.
3.1.9. The funding from the BSRL was to be used for balance of payments support to the
Philippines as its access to private capital was reduced due to the regional financial crisis. The
proceeds would help to alleviate the pressure on domestic resources to finance budget deficits,
build reserves, and enhance market confidence in the banking reform program being undertaken
by the government.
3.2   Revised Objective:
3.2.1. No revisions were made to the above-mentioned objectives.
3.3   Original Components:
3.3.1. The components of the BSRL were built on the objectives listed above with a series of
specific conditions in the loan designed to strengthen the resiliency of the banking sector.
3.3.2. Sound macroeconomic framework.  The BSRL necessitated the maintenance of a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework, which is standard practice for adjustment lending.
3.3.3. Prudential framework strengthening. A series of measures designed to enhance the
prudential standards for banking operations and supervisory effectiveness for the banking sector
was to be undertaken.
3.3.4. Strategy for intervention and resolution. As the true level of capitalization of the
Philippine banking system was weakened by the economic and financial market shocks through
1998 and with further possible stress, the government would take timely measures to develop and
implement a strategy for identifying and dealing with insolvent or undercapitalized banks. These
initiatives included: (i) a crash program of intensified monitoring of selected banks, (ii) explicit
procedures and rules establishing a graduated response to capital shortfalls; and (iii) strategy for
problem bank resolution.
3.3.5. Strengthening government-owned or controlled banks. The loan supported a process
aimed to reforrn and strengthen PNB-commission an external diagnostic audit; strengthen
PNB's financial performance consistent with the findings of the audit; transfer management and
control to respected private ownership which could strengthen PNB on a sustained basis.
Privatization was seen as a means to attain this objective.  External audits of the two
government-owned banks were also promoted by the BSRL (and financed by a trust fund).
3.3.6. Reduction of regulatory arbitrage and intermediation costs. The BSRL sought to reduce
the burden of borrowing and the prudential risks associated with regulatory arbitrage,
intermediation costs and underlying distortions that would add to the cost of borrowing.
Measures to be undertaken by the authorities would ameliorate the differential in intermediation
costs between peso and foreign currencies and tax and reserve treatments between peso and
foreign exchange business.



- 5 -
3.3.7. Legislative and regulatory agenda. The BSRL finally supported changes in legislative
and regulatory measures in order to provide legal protection to banking officials in performing
their official duties, enhance the supervisory and enforcement powers of BSP and PDIC, augment
BSP's and PDIC's legal authority to close insolvent banks and to resolve closed banks promptly.
3.4   Revised Components:
3.4.1. There was no revision in the original components, but in May 2001, the Bank did discuss
with the authorities possible restructuring of some conditions. By May 2001, it was apparent that
the government would not be able to comply with the original objectives relating to PNB under a
reasonable timeframe (as it was considering re-acquiring majority ownership of PNB and
rehabilitating it over an extended time period before privatizing it). In the context of deciding
how to respond to a possible government request for a second extension to the BSRL (which was
due to close on June 30, 2001), the Bank proposed to the authorities that it would be willing to
adjust the conditions associated with PNB (assuming that irreversible steps were taken toward
strengthening the bank and an appropriate restructuring plan was devised), together with a
strengthening of the envisaged legislative agenda to permit more rapid resolution of distressed
banks.' In the event, however, the government decided not to request a second extension of the
loan and instead requested (on May 23, 2001) that the loan be cancelled.
3.5    Quality at Entry
3.5.1 The BSRL is rated satisfactory for quality at entry by the ICR. The loan was consistent
with the objectives of the CAS Progress Report presented to the Board in March 1998 to provide
technical assistance and quick disbursing loans to support structural reforms in the financial and
public sectors at government request in January 1998. The BSRL was a response to this request
to strengthen the financial sector and improve confidence in the uncertain external financing
environment following the Asian crisis in mid-1997 in the form of balance of payments
financing.
3.5.2. The banking sector was identified as particularly vulnerable to the repercussions of the
regional crisis, and hence in need of strong ongoing supervision. The measures in the BSRL
were designed to bolster this sector and ensure the government's preparedness for any potential
difficulties in this sector in the crisis aftermath. The Bank's team worked closely with the
government and the IMF's Monetary and Exchange Affairs Department staff in providing
technical assistance on strengthening the banking system. The BSRL built upon the Bank's
experience in the reform of the Philippine financial sector since the early 1980s. The Bank has
played a significant role in several key reforms in this sector.
3.5.3. There was an active dialogue on banking issues with the government with ongoing
technical assistance in banking and a PHRD grant approved by Japan to strengthen supervision
capabilities within the BSP and PDIC and to strengthen the SEC's capacity. The Philippines was
This was discussed during BSRL negotiations but the authorities could not commit to it as it had little chance of being
enacted in theiT judgment. 1loweNey, in light of expeTience oveT the past three years, BSP and DOF officials considered
such legislation to be more urgent.



- 6 -
also under a stand-by program with the IMF, approved on March 27, 1998 and activated on
October 30, 1998.
4.    Achievement of Obiectives
4.1   Outcome/Achievement of Objectives
4.1.1. The BSRL objectives can be categorized into three broad categories: (i) measures directly
under BSP control including regulatory and supervisory measures and efforts to enhance
transparency; (ii) actions to strengthen PNB which required political will; and (iii) enactment by
Congress of supportive legislation. All measures envisaged under the first category were
enacted. However, PNB remains a distressed bank and has not been strengthened adequately-in
late 2000, it was subjected to a damaging run necessitating a P25 billion emergency loan from
the BSP and PDIC (which has yet to be repaid). While the authorities submitted considerable
legislation on banking to Congress consistent with (and in some cases) beyond agreements
reached under the BSRL, much of this legislation was not enacted by Congress. As a result,
supervisory effectiveness and the ability to resolve distressed banks remain constrained even as
banking stress has increased from the extended period of slow growth.
4.1.2. The overall outcome of the BSRL was hence judged to be unsatisfactory as the Philippine
authorities could not met the objectives in two categories listed above. Even though all the
measures (in category 1) under direct BSP control were implemented, the continued weakness of
PNB and the lack of a credible plan to restore PNB to sustained soundness, and the non-
enactment of legislative measures by Congress were both considered important enough to
constrain the overall objectives and prevent the disbursement of the second and third tranches.
4.1.3. The government fulfilled all the conditions for Board presentation and loan effectiveness
and several required for release of the second and third tranches. These included measures
directly under the control of the BSP as mentioned above, e.g., measures that strengthened bank
supervision, consolidated supervision, and on-site examination, implemented prompt corrective
action guidelines, enhanced transparency through more stringent disclosure requirements,
developed contingency plans to address systemic risks, and accepted the need to buttress
protection of PDIC and BSP staff from legal challenges. A number of legislative items
envisaged under the third tranche were also enacted, though others were not.
4.1.4. However, as discussed above, there were considerable delays in fulfilling the conditions
for strategic private investment in PNB and necessary legislative changes to strengthen the
banking authority and the legal protection of its officials, both of which were crucial to the
successful implementation of the program. There were considerable delays and difficulties in
meeting the objective of transforming PNB into a top-rated bank with a strategic private equity
partner, first with the unsuccessful auction of government shares in PNB and subsequent
maneuvering among the shareholders. The government that assumed power in January 2001
intended to fulfill the commitments made by its predecessor. However, the new authorities
realized that the conditions called for in the second tranche could not be met even within the
revised timeframe of the loan and requested the cancellation of the loan on May 23, 2001 with
the Bank's concurrence.



- 7 -
4.1.5. The matrix below summarizes the outcomes of the BSRL.
Objectives, Actions, Outcomes, and Measures undertaken for Tranche Releases
Objective             Action                        Measures Taken                     Second Tranche             Third Tranche
before Board Date                     not released              not released
First Tranche: disbursed                Loan cancelled            Loan cancelled
Prudential   - Increase capital          - Timetable to raise minimum capital
Framework                               requirements through 2000 announced in
March 1998 and effective in December
1998
- Ensure conservative       - Accelerated schedule for meeting general
assessments of bank capital    loan loss provisions in March 1998 and
announcement of new schedule for specific
loan loss provision effective in December
1998
- Tighter restrictions on bank   - Circular issued for stricter qualification
licensing                    and competency criteria for new licenses in
July 1998
- Disclosure and mark-to-   - Circulars issued by BSP to enhance
market                      transparency and market discipline and
mark-to-market trading and equity
portfolios and mark-to-market accounting
procedures: effective in September 1998.
- Extend responsibility of  - Auditors are to inform BSP of factors  Circular issued in September
auditors                    materially affecting soundness of a financial  1998
institution under and affirmative obligation.
- New supervision           - Objectives and action plan agreed and                               On-going
methodologies               implemented: Broader qualitative         On-going
assessment of banks with a forward-looking
approach and priorities of issues and
criticisms
- Consolidated supervision  - Implementation of supervision in accord    Seven banks supervised on  Ten additional banks
with the core principles of the Basle   consolidated basis           supervised on
Committee on Banking Supervision;       Consolidated supervision     consolidated basis
Implementing guidelines issued          institutionalized in October
1998.
Early       - Intensified monitoring     - Action plan agreed
Interventio                              - Priority list of problem banks prepared  Supplementary on-site
n and                                    - Special, critical, and forward-looking on-   inspections completed for 51
Resolution                              site inspections for realistic valuations of  banks
banks. Speeding up inspection reports
competition
- Early intervention and    - Circular issued on matrix of sanctions  Circulars issued in 1998
resolution                  according to capital-deficiency degree   Guidelines provided for
corrective actions by banks
corresponding to their degree
of capital deficiency.
Guidelines provided for
intervening and resolving
insolvent and near-insolvent
banks
Contingency plan produced to
deal with systemic crisis -
Monetary Board Resolution
issued in January 2000



-8-
Strategic    - Actions complementary to  - BSP inspection done; PNB inspection    - In-depth diagnostic audit of   Unsatisfactory progress
Private     strategic investment         updated to monitor its financial position  PNB completed by PWC; but   on action plan
Investment                                                                       measures to strengthen PNB
in PNB                                                                           consistent with the audit
PNB's financial performance
remains a cause of concern.
- Due diligence review by the
PWC office undertaken to
update valuation and to advise
on rehabilitation plan
- Inability to strengthen the
financial position of PNB
- No substantive action to
strengthen PNB on a sustained
basis
- Transfer of management and   - Announcement of govemment intention to   - Auction organized but failed   - PNB financial
control to strategic private  sell its shares in PNB to a strategic private   to attract potential investors,   performance continued
investor                     investor. Appointment of the financial  especially from top-tier     to deteriorate
advisory firm,                          domestic or global banking   - no selection of
names                        strategic investor to
- No divestment of          transfer management
government shares in PNB     and control of PNB
- No concrete plan to        - Rehabilitation plan by
strengthen financial        PNB management
performance of PNB and its
management
- PNB financial performance
deteriorated and the bank is
close to insolvent
Regulatory   - Reduce intermediation costs   - Reserve requirements lowered in March  - On-going measures
Arbitrage                                and May 1998 to 8%; Liquidity requirement
and                                     raised in March 1998
Intermediat  - Reduce incentives for     - Liquid asset requirement on foreign    Circular Letter issued
ion Costs   dollarization                currency intermediation raised to 30% in
June 1998 while the cost of peso reserve
requirement lowered. Enactment of
withholding tax on foreign currency interest
for residents
Legislative  - Enhance protection for    - Objective agreed with further review   - Action plan agreed (based on  Action plan carried out
Changes    supervisors                                                            the report of a leading private   but legislation changes
law firm) and legislation    not yet enacted. In the
required was submitted but    interim, there were
not included in the General  Monetary Board
Banking Law(GBL) of May    Resolution in Oct 1999;
2000                         PDIC Board Resolution
in Apr 2000 adopting
legal protection for BSP
and PDIC staff
- Limit appeals by bank     - Objectives agreed                                                   Regulatory changes not
owners                                                                                             yet enacted
- Increase supervisory       - Objective agreed                                                    Regulatory changes not
authority of BSP/PDIC                                                                              yet enacted
- Failure resolution        - Objective agreed                                                    Regulatory changes not
yet enacted
- Additional receivership   - Objective agreed                                                     Regulatory changes
criterion                                                                                          enacted in GBL
- Liberalize foreign bank entry  - Objective agreed                                                Regulatory changes
enacted in GBL
Source: World Bank staff



-9 -
4.2   Outputs by Components:
4.2.1. Maintaining a sound economic framework. The loan agreement called for a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework to be maintained. For practical purposes, the Bank made use of the
satisfactory compliance rating established by the concurrent IMF Stand-By Arrangement (SBA)
as the criterion to monitor the compliance with the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic
framework. From 1998 up to April 2000, the government made adequate progress on the
macroeconomic front, as certified by IMF missions. However, by October 2000, the situation
deteriorated to a point where the IMF did not recommend the completion of the sixth and final
review of the SBA because of sizable slippages in fiscal and reserve targets. The subsequent
slide of the peso and loss of confidence following the allegation of corruption involving
President Estrada adversely affected the country's macroeconomic performance, adding further
political and economic uncertainties. The Bank's PSRs reiterated the need for the government to
make its best effort to contain its fiscal deficit, focus on strengthening revenue collection, and
formulate a realistic fiscal target for 2001. With the political and economic turmoil, a new
government took office in January 2001. By March 2001, the Bank mission that was visiting the
country noted that market confidence in the new government had improved, despite the difficult
external conditions, but realized that the fiscal targets set for 2001 were going to be a challenge
for the government. Without the IMF assessment under the SBA, the Bank needed to make its
own macroeconomic evaluation. This was yet to be pursued, however, as the authorities
requested that the loan be cancelled in May 2001.
4.2.2. Prudential framework strengthening. The activities under this area, as supported by the
BSRL, proceeded well during the period prior to its presentation to the Bank's Executive Board.
All the actions and agreements in this category were met.  The measures included the
announcement and implementation of a three-step process to increase minimum capital
requirements and to enforce capital adequacy standards; general loan loss provisions introduced
in October 1997 and additional specific loan loss provisions announced in March 1998; circular
on tighter bank licensing issued in July 1998; two circulars requiring disclosures of selected
banking information on a quarterly basis and providing regulations specifying mark-to-market
rules for trading and equity portfolios. BSP formally issued auditors accreditation guidelines,
putting into effect rules requiring external auditors to be placed under affirmative obligations to
inform BSP of factors that affected the soundness of a financial institution and the accreditation
of external auditors engaged by banks.
4.2.3. Strategy for intervention and resolution. To intensify bank monitoring and supervision,
the government produced a priority list of troubled banks on the basis of early warning
indicators. At the same time, inspection reports were conducted and completed. For early
intervention and resolution, a September 1998 circular provided a matrix of sanctions according
to the degree of capital deficiency. An additional circular was also issued to clarify the
mandatory and discretionary corrective actions facing banks, depending on the degree of capital
deficiency. The authorities established a high-level committee to develop a contingency plan for
systemic banking difficulties, and drafts of this plan were discussed with the Bank and IMF.
4.2.4. Strengthening government owned or controlled banks. A key element of the overall
soundness of the banking system in the Philippines-and also a test to assess the effectiveness of



- 1() -
the enhanced supervisory regime-was the improved governance and financial performance of
PNB. The government-agreed strategy was to transform PNB into a top-rated bank with a
private equity partner that would have the incentive and ability to raise and maintain PNB's
competitiveness, loan portfolio and capital adequacy up to the top tier of industry standards. To
carry out this strategy, the BSRL supported the steps toward strategic investment in the PNB
through a series of concrete measures. The pre-Board conditions were implemented, including
BSP inspection in order to update information on PNB's financial situation, and two financial
advisory firms were appointed to work together to advise the government on all aspects of PNB
strengthening and full privatization (which was a condition of effectiveness). The government
also announced its intention to divest from PNB to a strategic private investor through a bidding
process.
4.2.5. Following the Bank's Board approval and effectiveness of the project, however, the
implementation of the agreed conditions for the second and third tranche releases-as they
related to PNB-did not proceed with satisfactory progress. Initially, there were delays in
agreeing to the scope of the external audit. The external audit, valuation reports and privatization
report were prepared but finalizing the audits was delayed by a number of factors until 2000, and
the end-1998 data used rendered the audit out of date and less relevant for disclosure and
valuation purposes by the time it was completed. Subsequently, the main issues centered on the
unsuccessful search for a strategic private investor who could restore confidence in the
governance and management of the bank, the manner in which divestment of the government's
shareholding of PNB occurred, and the bank's deteriorating financial performance.
4.2.6. With PNB's financial position remaining under pressure, the government decided to sell
part of its shares to infuse cash into the bank. However, the resulting dilution of its 46 percent
stake in PNB undermnined the objective of selling the whole government stake to a respected
strategic investor. Moreover, the manner in which the sale occurred was not fully transparent.
And the new ownership of PNB was unable to generate confidence in the governance of the bank
or adequately improve its financial position. The government's share in PNB was diluted first to
30 percent by a rights issue and then to 16 percent in June 2000 following a 5:6 stock right offer
to shareholders of record as of June 26, 2000 with the government not participating. Earlier, the
May 2000 auction of government shares was not successful due to a lack of qualified bidders
(three expressions of interest were received, but two did not qualify, while under standard
privatization procedures, two bids are required in public property auctions). The Tan group
became a principal PNB shareholder (with about 65 percent ownership in 2000) and effective
manager of the bank. The government did not expect that further auctions would improve the
value of its shares and decided to postpone any further divestment effort.
4.2.7. During this period, the issue of PNB corporate governance came to the forefront as its
financial performance continued to deteriorate. PNB shares were traded well below par, its NPLs
rose to far above the industry average (to 50 percent of the net loan portfolio according to its
President); capital adequacy remained below regulatory guidelines, despite capital infusion from
the Tan group in 2000. Significant losses continued in 2001. Thus, its rehabilitation was given
priority by the authorities who sought the IMF and the Bank's support for this view. The
political situation in the Philippines however impeded the implementation of the rehabilitation
program approved in principle by the Monetary Board in January 2001. The change in



- 11 -
government in late January 2001 necessitated a reexamination of the PNB situation. The new
government, faced with a difficult situation, undertook a number of actions. It initiated a new
due diligence review by the local PriceWaterhouse Coopers office to update valuation and to
advise on a rehabilitation plan. The government also was considering three alternatives: (1) a
joint sale of majority and government shares to respected third party with banking expertise, with
the possible appointment of an investment firm to advise on feasibility and modalities of such
sale; (2) leaving majority ownership with the Tan group and giving the opportunity to this group
to strengthen PNB prior to a possible future sale; and (3) re-assuming majority public ownership
of PNB.
4.2.8. Following the Bank mission in March/April 2001, it became apparent that the
government would not be able to comply with the condition requiring the strengthening of PNB's
financial position before June 30, 2001 (the extended closure date of the loan). The possibility of
a second extension of the loan was raised by the government with the prospects of a possible
restructuring of the BSRL. After extensive discussions with the Bank's senior regional staff, the
Philippine authorities concluded that they would not be able to meet the proposed conditions
even with a further extension and decided to request cancellation of the loan.
4.2.9.  Reduction of regulatory arbitrage and intermediation costs. The Philippine authorities
proceeded with measures to reduce regulatory arbitrage and intermediation costs. Reserve
requirements were lowered in 1998 by a total of five percentage point to 8 percent. While
reserve requirements were raised to 10 percent in October 1998, interest was paid on reserves
held by banks was increased. A 15 percent liquidity requirement on foreign currency assets was
introduced in December 1997 and was raised to 30 percent in June 1998. A withholding tax of
7.5 percent on foreign currency deposits was imposed in January 1998 (the withholding tax on
peso deposits was 20 percent).
4.2.10. Legislative and regulatory agenda. The first goal in the legislative and regulatory agenda
was to protect banking officials from litigation arising from the enactment of their
responsibilities. A leading private law firm was commissioned to advise on the issue. Following
its assessment that stronger legislation was indeed needed, the authorities submitted to Congress
appropriate language in the proposed legislation to strengthen the protection of banking officials.
However, the General Banking Law that was approved in May 2000 did not include such
provisions. The BSP and PDIC intended to re-submit appropriate provisions for protecting their
respective staff into the proposed new legislative charters for BSP and PDIC for consideration by
the new Congress in July 2001-but these have not yet been enacted. Bank staff were informed
that if it became clear that the Congress would not accept these provisions, BSP was considering
alternative ways of protecting its staff. The authorities indicated that they agreed with the need
for enhanced protection and pursued this objective rationally.
4.2.11. The General Banking Law of 2000 included, among others, some of the measures called
for by the conditions of the third tranche release: authorization of foreign bank ownership up to
100 percent during a seven-year window of opportunity; declaration of a bank holiday as grounds
for placing a bank under receivership (although the GBL did not include the suspension of
payments of deposit liabilities as grounds for placing a bank under receivership as specified by
the third tranche condition); and putting a bank under receivership if its capital to risk assets ratio



- 12 -
falls below 2 percent. However, this law omitted other criteria specified in the legislative agenda
covered by the BSRL: legislation to limit legal challenges to bank closings ordered by the
Monetary Board and to provide that only money damages be available in such cases;
enhancement of the supervisory authority of BSP and PDIC, including the power to suspend and
remove bank directors, officers and employees who violated banking laws from any further
involvement in any bank; increase in penalties for banking law violations; granting bank exams
at the discretion of the BSP Governor, Deputy Governor, or Managing Director; and
enhancement of the PDIC power to dispose of assets of a bank once it is placed in receivership
by the Monetary Board.
4.3   Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return:
4.3.1. Not applicable.
4.4   Financial Rate of Return:
4.4.1. Not applicable.
4.5   Institutional Development Impact:
4.5.1. The BSRL supported the strengthening of the banking sector in the Philippines, especially
in its prudential framework through prudential standards and supervisory effectiveness.
Prudential standards were tightened with stricter qualification and competency criteria for new
licenses. Transparency and market discipline in the banking sector were enhanced with a
requirement for banks to disclose and discuss publicly more detailed information on a quarterly
basis.
4.5.2. New supervision methodologies were implemented in the broader qualitative assessment
of banks, using a forward looking approach and prioritizing the issues and criticism made and
emphasizing issues other than portfolio quality, such as risk management capacity, funding
vulnerabilities, as well as a review of the processes and systems that contributed to asset quality.
Training was carried out for BSP and PDIC staff. The BSRL also assisted in the implementation
of consolidated supervision of banking organizations in accordance with the Basle Committee on
Banking Supervision.
4.5.3. The BSRL helped to intensify the monitoring of problem banks on the priority list on the
basis of early warning indicators while emphasizing early intervention and resolution of problem
banks with circulars on sanction matrix according to capital deficiency degree.
4.5.4. Other institutional impacts included the reduction on regulatory arbitrage and
intermediation cost; this helped prudential risks associated with such arbitrage and the underlying
distortions.
4.5.5. However, the non-enactment of legislation-on protection of banking regulator staff and
to limit legal challenges to bank closure or for the imposition of other sanctions on banks for the
violation of regulations-undermined the effectiveness of the enhanced regulatory framework.
The progress with PNB reform did not proceed satisfactorily during the implementation of the



- 13 -
BSRL. While the government agreed on the strategic reform and potential institutional impact in
the banking sector for PNB to be transformed into a top-rated bank, the actions taken following
Board approval were often not consistent with this objective, and the financial performance and
corporate governance of PNB remain important issues for the authorities to resolve. These
outstanding issues concerning PNB cast a shadow over the overall institutional impact of the
lending operation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1   Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency:
5.1.1. The implementing agencies for the BSRL were BSP on all aspects of banking regulation
and supervision, the Department of Finance (DOF) on PNB-related issues (though BSP remained
responsible for supervising PNB and was involved in discussions on how to handle PNB-related
issues). BSP, DOF and PDIC cooperated in preparing legislation for submission to Congress.
BSP drafted the contingency plan to address a banking crisis, taking into account comments from
DOF and PDIC.
5.1.2. The environment for undertaking banking reforms was difficult, reflecting the slow
recovery from the regional crisis and the financial instability (including a damaging run on a
major bank private bank) associated with allegations of corruption against former President
Estrada. These allegations and the alleged close links between the Estrada administration and the
new controlling owner of PNB undermined confidence in the transparency through which the
principal owner acquired his controlling shares, and also undermined confidence in the ability of
PNB to enhance its own governance and financial performance. The fact that closure of PNB
was thought to pose systemic risk and hence not considered a viable option also undermined the
authority's ability to impose regulatory sanctions on PNB management. The inability to
strengthen PNB in turn constrained the authorities from attracting respected foreign investors to
bid for a strategic stake in the bank. The weak economy and the large number of "fire sales" of
distressed banks in the region may also have reduced the attractiveness of a PNB sale.
5.1.3. While regulatory officials espoused the legislative objectives supported by the BSRL,
Congress was less sympathetic-in particular, to giving banking regulators greater protection
against lawsuits by the banking community or greater authority to impose sanctions or close
banks that were unable/unwilling to comply with banking regulations. Thus the banking
legislation that was passed in May 2000 excluded key objectives relating to these items and
agreed to in the BSRL context.
5.2   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control:
5.2.1. All aspects of the BSRL were subject to government control if government is taken to
include the legislature. If the executive only is included, enacted of legislation was beyond the
control of government.



- 14-
5.3   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control:
5.3.1. As discussed, a large number of regulatory and supervisory adjustments were enacted
consistent with the objectives of the BSRL, as BSP had full authority to enact such changes (and
most of the changes were in any case initiated by the BSP itself).
5.4   Costs and Financing:
5.4.1. The loan was US$300 million, $100 million of which was disbursed as the first tranche
upon effectiveness on December 30, 1998. A second tranche and a third tranche were to be
disbursed upon the fulfillment of distinct sets of conditions but the loan was cancelled before
their release. The interest rate on the loan was the floating rate US dollar single-currency loan.
The loan had a repayment period of 20 years with a five-year grace period. There was co-
financing loan from Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC-formerly JEXIM Bank) in
the amount of US$300 million equivalent. The second and third tranches of the loan were not
disbursed. The original closing date was June 30, 2000; at the government's request, this was
extended to June 30, 2001. The government later requested, and the Bank agreed to, the
cancellation of the loan on May 24, 2001.
6.    Sustainability
6.1   Rationale for Sustainability Rating:
6.1.1. The "unlikely" sustainability rating stems from the inability to enact legislation to
adequately protect banking regulators against litigation by those that they regulate, and to impose
meaningful sanctions or close banks that do not comply with regulations, and the inability to find
a means to strengthen PNB on a sustainable basis. The difficulties still encountered by the
authorities in imposing its regulatory will on large banks undermined to some extent the
considerable improvements in regulatory and supervisory criteria that were enacted during the
BSRL preparation and implementation period. Nonetheless, it is recognized that when taking
account of the constraints that banking regulators have to work under, Philippine regulators have
performed well in containing the many risks they have had to face since the regional crisis first
broke in mid-1997.
6.2   Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations:
6.2.1. This was a one time operation that was not expected to have any follow-up project.
However, given the cancellation of the BSRL and the need to continue assisting the Philippines
in its efforts to improve the financial sector, certain activities not contemplated or not completed
under the BSRL may be included in a proposed public sector reform loan that is currently under
preparation.



- 15 -
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1   Lending.
7.1.1. The Bank has a long and continuing relationship with its counterparts in the Philippines
since the early 1980s. It has played an important supporting role in the implementation of the
reform program of the country and in several key reforms in the banking sector. Prior to the
crisis in 1997, technical assistance on strengthening the banking system was provided by the
Bank. A major report in 1996 on strengthening economic and financial resiliency dealt, inter
alia, with most of the issues that were later taken up in the context of the BSRL. (This report
was not made public at the request of the authorities.) In 1998, a Bank team was working in
parallel with a mission from the IMF to provide technical assistance to the authorities in the areas
of contractual savings, housing finance, and capital market development. There has been an
active dialogue on banking issues with the authorities.
7.1.2. While the Bank appreciated the overall risks for the banking system as it operated within
a fragile macroeconomic environment, it did not anticipate the evolution of events relating to
PNB-where before the government had a chance to sell its 46 percent share as a block to a
strategic private investor its stake was substantially diluted. This complicated adherence to the
PNB-related objectives envisaged in the BSRL.
7.1.3. The Bank realized that it would be very difficult to enact the requisite legislation by
Congress, but nonetheless made the judgment that without such legislation regulatory and
supervisory effectiveness would be significantly compromised, and hence passing the legislation
was worth striving for despite the risks to satisfactorily completing the operation through
disbursement of the third tranche.
7.2   Supervision:
7.2.1. The project was extensively supervised through several missions led by Bank staff from
headquarters and in close coordination with the Country Director and other staff from the Bank's
country office. Supervision missions frequently were buttressed by IMF's MAE staff and
overlapped with IMF's area department missions with expertise in banking. Discussion and
consultation were conducted both at the technical level and at the senior level between the Bank
and the government, especially in the implementation of the conditions on the PNB. Bank staff
responded to the changing circumstances and to government requests and stood ready to assist in
carrying out the conditions called for in the loan.
7.3   Overall Bank Performance.
7.3.1. Bank performance is rated satisfactory, reflecting the fact that the scope of the operation
was commensurate with the risks and weaknesses facing the banking system and the remedies
proposed also appeared appropriate. It may be argued that the Bank could have insisted upon
stronger legislation that would permit banking regulators even more authority to force rapid
resolution of distressed banks. This was not done because the authorities in 1998 were adamant



- 16-
that this would have no chance of enactment in Congress; as a result weaker, compromise
legislation was agreed upon-the fact that even this has not been fully enacted suggests that the
compromise reached in 1998 was warranted. Similarly, the Bank tried but was unable to gain
agreement on the relaxation of bank secrecy laws in the Philippines (the objective of relaxing the
law was included in the Letter of Development Policy but not as a specific loan condition.)
While interpretation of the conditionality vis-a-vis PNB elicited considerable internal debate
within the Bank, the decision to retain a strict interpretation of the second tranche conditions
appeared to have been warranted, in light of the fact that PNB remains in a difficult position-
indicating that the broad objectives relating to a sustained strengthening of the bank are not yet in
prospect almost three years after Board presentation of the BSRL.
Supervision of this operation was consistently led by senior task managers and collaboration with
the IMF remained close throughout the implementation period. The presence of the Country
Director in the field facilitated the dialogue and the coordination of the loan, and the Vice
President and Sector Director were also involved in key decision-making phases of the operation.
Relationships with the concerned government agencies remain strong notwithstanding the
difficult negotiations conducted before and after the BSRL was approved by the Board.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation:
7.4.1. The government of the Philippines played an active role in the preparation of the loan and
negotiation of its conditions through the direct involvement and supervision of senior officials
from the BSP, DOF and PDIC.
7.5   Government Implementation Performance:
7.5.1. As noted, all the regulatory/supervisory actions within the direct control of the BSP were
satisfactorily enacted. Nevertheless, the assessment of government implementation of the
program was rated unsatisfactory because of the non-enactment by Congress of the requisite
legislation and the inability of the executive to force a resolution of PNB's financial difficulties
along the lines envisaged under the BSRL-or indeed, to develop an alternative strategy to
strengthen PNB's financial performance in a sustainable manner. While the number of positive
actions on the regulatory/supervisory front were numerous, the un-enacted legislation and
unresolved situation in PNB render overall performance unsatisfactory.
Toward the end of the Estrada administration, there were considerable obstacles in fulfilling the
conditions of the BSRL, aggravated by the political turmoil which became a serious distraction.
The government that assumed power in January 2001 was proactive in seeking a viable solution
to the PNB issue but decided that this was not possible within a reasonable BSRL timeframe.
7.6  Implementing Agency:
7.6.1. The BSP and the DOF maintained a continuing dialogue with Bank staff both at the
Bank's Country Office and at headquarters. Both institutions coordinated and monitored the



- 17-
program under the direction of the Governor and the Secretary. These senior officials were also
proactive in trying to insure the implementation of the program as called for by the BSRL.
7.7   Overall Borrower Performance:
7.7.1. Overall performance of the government was not satisfactory with the non-fulfillment of
two essential conditions-strengthening PNB and enactment of legislation-leading to the
cancellation of the project without the disbursement of the second and third tranches. Resolution
of PNB took on a political tone following the circumstances through which the controlling owner
took control of PNB. Further, the attention of the authorities under the Estrada government was
diverted due to the political turmoil through January 2001. The new government that assumed
power in January 2001 was proactive in seeking ways to fulfill the outstanding conditions.
However, given the time pressure, the authorities came to the decision to close the loan as the
best approach. The Philippine authorities, however, stressed that they remained committed to the
strengthening of the financial sector in general and would continue to work with the Bank in
pursuing this objective.
8.    Lessons Learned
8.1.  Lessons learned from the BSRL include the following:
( Clear identification of political risk and interests must be adequately factored into the
design of an operation. In this case, the risk that Congress would not enact all the
envisaged legislation was recognized-indeed, this was a central feature of discussion
during the prolonged negotiations between the authorities and Bank staff. But more could
perhaps have been accomplished through a well-defined strategy of interaction with
Congress. And the President's Report should have explicitly noted the risks associated
with including enactment of contentious legislation into the conditionality of the
operation.
* Monitoring and enforcement of implementation is especially hard in a complex, multi-
tranche adjustment operation. While much progress was made on the regulatory aspects
of the loan under the control of BSP, the effectiveness of some regulatory changes as they
related to large banks could be questioned, given the uncertainty associated with
supportive legislative reforms-that were linked to a subsequent tranche.  This
complicated the task of supervision missions and perhaps also the credibility of the
regulatory changes.
* Cutting losses and canceling should always be on the table and may be preferable if
second best solutions are unlikely to achieve the development objective. The government
made the right choice in requesting cancellation in May 2001, but the Bank and
government could perhaps have reached this conclusion earlier on.
* There is a risk that multi-tranche operations can divert the focus of dialogue and
attention away from important emerging issues in a rapidly changing environment. In
these circumstances, rapid resolution through restructuring, disbursement or cancellation
may be preferable to allowing difficult-to-resolve issues to drag on.



- 18-
*  Single-tranche operations may be preferable to multi-tranche operations where the
objectives involve actions beyond the control of the executive, such as the enactment of
legislation. One or more single-tranche operations that are based on the fulfillment of
agreed conditions before the loan is presented to the Bank's Board may be a preferable
way of proceeding in these cases. Single-tranche operations can serve to heighten the
need to implement reforms within a specific time frame. They can also reduce the
complexity of the operation by allowing for the flexibility to adjust the nature and timing
of reforms envisaged in subsequent operations. However, in the BSRL case, it should be
noted that a series of single-tranche operations would not necessarily have achieved a
different reform outcome from the status quo-though they might have saved the
government the commitment fees from agreeing to a larger three-tranche operation.
Moreover, a multi-tranche operation does have the advantage of forcing a thorough
discussion of the full reform program in terms of one coherent package.



- 19 -
9.     Partner Comments
9.1    Borrower/implementing agency:
,n/,                       rn ~Tawoms .
MANILA       0       G R                                                1      LII
OFFICr OF T"I6 PCPUTY GOVCPNOR                                           LJ 64
Dcccmle 10, 2001
Mr. Robert Vse P?e
Coutmy Directw. ?lppne
East MAig and Pacific
TEE WORLD BANK
wowi Ba  Office Min
23/F Taipn Plc
Ewomald Avenue, Oigps Cwner
Pesig City
Dea Mr. ?llCy;
Re:  AaM  Secv Reform Loan
As requtd, anuab  se ours_w onma  on X dmt Ilaq*mntiou Cmplti
Rert (IC R) for the Pilipp4i BEg Ssor Refom Lon
Heat reads.
very tWuY yours,
ALDURTO
Dqipy G"oernor
Aucb~: W's



- 20 -
Annex A
COMMENTS ON DRAT ThIUMENTATX  COMPETION WPORT
Althoug  strengting of PNB an the cascen_t of crtain lgislation was tmot attaine,
tc objeioves to stgn the frnmok for    pn  bnking nmd to pwo  the
abthorities prepaodns ff eidy in tion   d  _eutin     trofbled banb were
met. BSP'B contnuing effrts to enbmcc  tw effectivees of baning speision,
implenwtaio  of prompt comnotiv o  m, developkent of contingecy plans to add-ss
systemic risks and    ac   tusparecy ac by thnscvis significant steps in
enbaning the reutsy  amework for the baking  cor. Admitkdy fthgh tbr. effect
of sucb meures would hve foud   gr support via the enactment of legislafion
such as legl ptction for ba1k official, en_ana2t of suprvisoy authorit of BSP
and PDIC. and increased pcnlties for baking few violations.
Als, the fbUowilg poins ould be includod in the htix of Outcomes of the BSRL
(item 4.1.5, pp. 7-8 of Draft Report)
O70.eto .                             tuZ .e . ;  dudedb
SbIlklAoiC NA4ftA hsunt in Pt[B         _-wmpva
Stratgic rivae Inestmet inNB   Ireveie pIvtzation [lan for PN1R
Lgslative changes - Liberalize fiA6      regulatory chapges  ected in GBL
bak entry                             fSectwn 73 of(GBL)
*1 p mutt 14i was owed bq* isguWoy Asages a yet umers



- 21 -
9.2    Cofinanciers: Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)
9.3    Other partners (NG0/private sector): There were no other partners.



- 22 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
BANKING SYSTEM REFORM LOAN
(LOAN No. 4412-PHL)
Annex Tables
Annex  1:   Key Performance Indicators ...........................                       ...................... 23
Annex 2:   Project Costs and Financing .................................................                      23
Annex 3:   Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................                        24
Annex 4:   Bank Inputs ................................................. 24
Annex 5:  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs
of Components .................................................                               25
Annex 6:   Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................... ............ 26
Annex  7:   Policy Matrix .................................................                                   27



- 23 -
ANNEX 1: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PLEASE SEE THE ANNEX 7 -- POLICY MATRIX
ANNEX 2: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ million)
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost by Component
IBRD                   300             300             100
JBIC                   300             300            100
Total Project Costs          600             600            100
Total Financing Required       600             600             100
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component   Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
Bank  Govt. CoF.  Bank  Govt.  CoF.  Bank  Govt.  CoF.
BOP       300          300   300            300    100             100



- 24 -
ANNEX 3: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Costs     Benefits    NPV      ERR (%)
Not Applicable                 N/A
ANNEX 4: BANK INPUTS
a) Missions
Stage of Project Cycle    No. of Persons and Specialty    Performance Rating
(e.g., 2 Economists, 1 FMS,   Implementation   Development
etc.)               Progress        Objective
Month/Year          Count        Specialty
Identification/Preparation  5    2 economists, 3 FMS        S               S
January 1998
Appraisal/Negotiation     7       3 economists, 3          S               S
August 1998                   FMS, 1 Lawyer
Supervision:
February 1999          5     2 economists, 3 FMS        S               S
August 1999           3     2 economist, I FMS         S               S
December 1999          2      1 economist, I FMS        S                S
April 2000           2     1 economist, 1 FMS         U               U
October 2000          3     2 economists, IFMS         U               U
December 2000          2      1 economist, I FMS        U               U
April 2001           3     1 economist, 2 FMS         U               U
ICR               I         1 economist            U               U
b) Staff
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                No. Staff Weeks                $ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  124.9                     437.1
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                 89.1                      311.8
Sub Total            .                      214.0                     748,9
ICR (est.)                                    8.6                      30.0
TOTAL                                       222.6                     778.9
Note: 1. Figures do not include Trust Funds.



-25 -
ANNEX 5: RATINGS FOR ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES/OUTPUTS OF COMPONENTS
(H - High; SU = Substantial, M = Modest, N = Negligible, NA = Not Applicable)
Policy                           High     Substantial   Modest    Negligible       Not
Applicable
Macro policies                                                         X
Sector Policies                                            X
Physical                                                                           X
Financial                                                  X
Institutional Development                      X
Environment                                                                         X
Social                                                                             X
- Poverty Reduction                                                               X
- Gender                                                                          X
- Other (Please specify)                                                          X
Private sector development                                 X
Public sector management                                   X
Other (Please specify)



-26-
ANNEX 6. RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory
6.1 Bank            Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory          Unsatisfactorv             Highiv
performance                                                                                Unsatisfactory
Lending                  C                      XI1
Supervision                                      Bl                         ii
Overall                  [    ] Xl X                                      gIi
6.2 Borrower        Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory             Hi2hli
performance                                                                                Unsatisfactor
Preparation                 B                                             B                   [C 
Government
implementation
performance
Implementation
agency
performance
Overall                     B                      B                      B



-27 -
Implementation Completion Report
Banking System Reform Loan
Annex 7
Supporting Document
Policy Matrix
Action            Before Board Date            Second Tranche             Third Tranche
Prudential    Increase Capital    Timetable announced.
Framework                      Increase minimum capital
implemented with Circulars
Nos. 117 and 156.
Ensure            General and specific loan loss
conservative      provisioning schedule
assessments of    announced.
bank capital      Implemented with Circulars
Nos. 143, 159, 164.
Tighter           Adopted.
restrictions on   Implemented with Circular-
bank licensing    Letter in July 1998.
Disclosure and    Circulars issued.
mark-to-market    Implemented with Circulars
Nos. 147 and 161.
Extend            Objectives agreed            Regulation issued.
responsibility of                              Implemented with Circular
auditors                                       No. 179.
New supervisory    Objectives and action plan  On-going                   On-going
methodologies     agreed and implemented:
Section Order No. 10 and
Supervision Guidelines No.
98-7 and Regulation No. 171
Consolidated      Adopted                      Seven banks supervised on    Ten additional banks
supervisions      Implementing guidelines for    consolidated basis.      supervised on
consolidated supervision     Consolidation supervision    consolidated basis.
provided under Sector Orders  institutionalized in Oct 98
Nos. 10 and 11.
Early        Intensified       Action plan agreed            Supplementary on-site
Intervention   monitoring                                   inspections completed for
and                                                         51 banks
Resolution                                                   Speed up completion reports
of examination.



- 28 -
Action            Before Board Date            Second Tranche             Third Tranche
Early intervention   Circulars issued          Circulars issued.
and resolution    Implemented under Circulars   Guidelines provided for
Nos. 172 and 176.            corrective actions by banks
corresponding to their
degree of capital deficiency.
Guidelines provided for
intervening and resolving
insolvent and near-insolvent
banks.
Contingency plan produced
to deal with systemic crisis -
Monetary Board Resolution
issued in Jan 2000.
Strategic    Actions           BSP inspection done; PNB     - In-depth diagnostic audit
Private      complementary to  inspection updated to monitor   of PNB completed by PWC,
Investment   strategic         its financial positions      but measures to strengthen
in PNB       investment                                     PNB, consistent with the
audit and PNB's financial
performance remain a cause
for concern.
- Due diligent review by the
PWV office undertaken to
update valuation and advise
on rehabilitation plan
- Inability to strengthen the
financial position of PNB.
- No substantive action to
strengthen PNB on a
sustainable basis.
Transfer of       Objective announced:         - Auction organized but    -  PNB   financial
management and    Government intention to sell   failed to attract potential  performance
control to       its shares in PNB to a strategic  investors, especially from  continued  to
strategic private    private investor.         top-tier domestic or global    deteriorate
investor          A financial advisor firm     banking names              - no  selection  of
appointed                    - No divestment of         strategic investor to
government shares in PNB    transfer management
- No concrete plan to     and control of PNB
strengthen financial       - Rehabilitation plan
performance of PNB and its  by PNB
management                 management
- PNB financial performance
deteriorated and the bank is
close to insolvent



- 29 -
Action            Before Board Date           Second Tranche             Third Tranche
Reduce       Reduce            - Reserve requirements      On-going measures
regulatory    intermediation   lowered in March and May
arbitrage    costs             1998: Circulars Nos. 166
and                            and 180
intermediati                   - Liquidity requirement
on costs                       raised in March 1999:
Circular No. 188.
Reduce incentives  Objectives agreed:         Circular-Letter issued
for dollarization    - Liquid asset requirement on
foreign currency
intermnediation raised to 30%
in June 1998 while the cost of
peso reserve requirement
lowered.
- Enactment of withholding tax
on foreign currency interest
for residents
Legislative    Enhance         Objectives agreed with further  - Action plan agreed (based   Action plan carried
changes      protection for    review                       on the report of a leading  out but legislation
supervisors                                   private law firn) and      changes not yet
legislation required was  enacted. In the
submitted but not included   interim, there were
in the General Banking    Monetary Board
Law(GBL) of May 2000      Resolution in Oct
1999; PDIC Board
Resolution in Apr
2000 adopting legal
protection for BSP
and PD1C staff
Limit appeals by    Objectives agreed                                    Regulatory
bank owners                                                              changes not yet
enacted
Increase          Objectives agreed                                      Regulatory changes
supervisory                                                              not yet enacted
authority of BSP
and PDIC
Failure resolution   Objectives agreed                                   Regulatory changes
not yet enacted
Additional        Objectives agreed                                      Regulatory changes
receivership                                                             enacted in GBL
criterion
Liberalize foreign   Objectives agreed                                   Regulatory changes
bank entry                                                               enacted in GBL



