Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL,Y
Report No. P-7235-PH
REPORT AND RECOMEMENDATION
OF THE
P]RESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
E,XECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION
TO THE REPUBL IC OF THE PHILIPPINES
1FOR
BANKING SYSTEM REFORM\/
November 4, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.j



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 4, 1998)
Currency Unit = Peso
$1.00 = 39.40 pesos
1.00 peso = $0.025
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APT         -      Asset Privatization Trust
BAP         -      Bankers Association of the Philippines
BSP         -      Bangko Sentral Ng Pilipinas
CAMEL       -      Capital, Asset Quality, Management, Earnings and Liquidity
CAS         -      Country Assistance Strategy
CPSD        -      Consolidated Public Sector Deficit
DBP         -      Development Bank of the Philippines
DOF         -      Department of Finance
DST         -      Documentary Stamp Tax
EFF         -      Extended Financing Facility
FCDU        -      Foreign Currency Deposit Units
GFI         -      Govermment-Owned Financial Institution
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
GNP         -      Gross National Product
GRT         -      Gross Receipts Tax
IFAC        -      Effects of Non-Application
NPL         -      Nonperforming Loan
PDIC        -      Philippines Deposit Insurance Corporation
PNB         -      Philippine National Bank
SCL         -      Single Currency Loan
SEC         -      Securities and Exchange Commission
SLIM        -      Solvency, Liquidity, Income and Management
SME         -      Small and Medium Enterprise
TA          -      Technical Assistance
VAT         -      Value-Added Tax
Vice-President: Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director: Vinay Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager: Jacques Loubert, EASFS
Task Manager: Sanjay Dhar, EASPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
BANKING SYSTEM REFORM LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN  AND  PROGRAM   SUMMARY  ............................................................                      i
I. THE  ECONOMIC  CONTEXT  ..........................                      ..................................    I
A. Impact of the Regional Economic Crisis ............................................................           I
II. THE BANKING SYSTEM: PAST PROGRESS AND CURRENT
CONCERNS  ............................................................                                      5
A. Past Financial Reforms: An Overview  ............................................................            5
B. The Current Banking Environment .......................................            .....................     6
C. The Corporate Sector ............................................................                            11
1II. REFORM AGENDA FOR THE BANKING SYSTEM ..............................                                        12
A. Strengthening the Prudential Framework ............................................................          13
B. Refining the Intervention and Resolution Strategy ........................           ....................    15
C. Strengthening Government Owned or Controlled Banks ...................................                       18
D. Reducing Regulatory Arbitrage and Intermediation Costs ..............                   ...................  19
E. Legislative and Regulatory Agenda ............................................................              20
IV. THE  PROPOSED  LOAN  ............................................................                          22
A. Background and Rationale ..................                  ..........................................     22
B. Loan Objectives ............................................................                                23
C. Loan Description, Conditions and Tranching ....................................................             24
D. Loan Administration ............................................................                            26
E. Benefits and Risks ............................................................                             26
V. RECOMMENDATION ............................................................                                 27
This loan was prepared by a team led by Sanjay Dhar and includes contributions from McDonald Benjamin, Carlos
Escudero. Patrick Honohan, Niels Minners. Vincent Polizatto, Owen Camey (banking consultant) and Ross Delston
(legal consultant). David Bisbee provided research assistance and Hedwig Abbey assisted with document
processing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2: Policy Matrix-Objectives and Sequencing of Actions
Summary Notes on Proposed Policy Actions
Annex 3: Terms of Reference for the Financial Advisor to the Department of Finance for PNB
Annex 4: Recent Measures Taken or Announced to Strengthen the Banking System
Annex 5: Statistics
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators. 1993-99
Table 2: Balance of Payments, 1992-98
Table 3: Selected Interest Rates
Table 4: External Debt, 1992-97
Table 5: The Philippine Banking System
Table 6: Nonperforming Loans in the Banking System
Annex 6: Status of Bank Group Operations in Philippines Operations Portfolio
Annex 7: Philippines at a Glance



REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES
BANKING SYSTEM REFORM LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Philippines
Amount and terms: $300 million floating rate single currency loan in US Dollars for 20
years including 5 years grace at the Bank's standard amortization
terms, grace period and interest rate for floating rate US dollar
loans with an expected disbursement period of less than three years
will apply.
Objective:        The purpose of the loan is to support the Borrower's banking
reform program. whose goal is to strengthen the banking system
and enable it to better withstand current difficulties and future
shocks.
Description:      Reforms to strengthen the banking system include policies to:
improve the prudential framework and supervisory effectiveness;
enhance market discipline and owner incentives; reduce regulatory
arbitrage and intermediation costs; refine the intervention and
resolution framework for troubled banks; and initiate a program to
strengthen state-owned/controlled banks. Legislative changes are
essential to the success of the program.
A fast disbursing loan is proposed. The loan would disburse in
three equal tranches in accordance with conditions noted in the
Policy Matrix and supporting summary notes (Annex 2).
Benefits and risks:  Associating the Bank with policy advice and lending for banking
reform can strengthen the quality of the reform program and
improve confidence in the banking system, which has been
weakened with the onset of the regional crisis. Maintaining a
sustained effort to strengthen the banking system will remain
essential in the medium term. Even assuming a rapid return to
normalcy within the region, the banking system would benefit
from the enhanced prudential framework envisaged under the
reform program, in order to exercise the appropriate degree of
restraint in intermediating potentially large private capital flows.
The Philippine economy remains vulnerable to a sustained
deterioration in the regional environment, which would exert added



- 11 -
pressure onto a fragile external position and adversely impact
financial markets. Even without unanticipated macroeconomic
deterioration, the banking system faces a period of increased stress
from a slowdown in growth, high interest rates. peso depreciation
and weaker real estate prices that have strained corporate balance
sheets. A number of banks could fall short of capital adequacy
requirements as the burden of nonperforming loans grows. and
individual  institutions  remain  subject to  sudden  deposit
withdrawals that can render the entire system more vulnerable.
While economic and banking risks are significant. the Bank can
mitigate these by improving the quality of the banking reform
program and also enhance investor confidence. thereby improving
its prospects of succeeding.  Macroeconomic risks are being
addressed within the context of a two year IMF stand-by program
approved on March 27. 1998.
Poverty category:  Not applicable
Estimated
disbursements:    The  loan  would  be  disbursed  in  three  equal amounts.
Disbursements  would  be  conditioned  upon  satisfactory
macroeconomic performance and financial sector policies as
described in the Letter of Development Policy.
Schedule of
Disbursements:                              US$ million  US$ million
Bank FY                     1999        2000
Annual                       100         200
Cumulative                   100         300
Project ID Number: PH-56524



REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
BANKING SYSTEM REFORM LOAN
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed adjustment loan of U.S. $300 million to the Republic of the Philippines to
strengthen the banking system and enable it to cope more effectively with the increased
financial market volatility since mid-1997.
I. THE ECONOMIC CONTEXT
A. Impact of the Regional Economic Crisis
2.    The Philippine economy was among the first in the region to be adversely
impacted by the Thai crisis. Yet the cumulative impact of the subsequent region-wide
crisis on the economy and financial sector. although substantial, has been less severe than
in most neighboring economies: there has been no need thus far for the Government to
recapitalize private banks and the majority of large corporations remain current on their
domestic and foreign obligations.  This may be attributed to several factors: the
experience gained by bankers and foreign creditors during the crises of the 1980s and
early 1990s led to a more cautious approach to credit use; hence external debt build up by
the private sector was slower; corporations are less highly leveraged; and banking
problems stemming from the 1980s stimulated reforms which, prior to the onset of the
current regional crisis, had produced a stronger banking regulatory and supervisory
environment than that prevailing in some of the Philippines' neighbors. Nevertheless,
slowing economic activity and continued instability in financial markets has increased
stress on the banking and corporate sectors, with smaller banks and enterprises on
average impacted more severely.
3.    Impact on Financial Markets. In early 1997. financial markets began to exhibit
increased anxiety over the Philippines' rising trade deficit, rapid pace of credit expansion,
and the impact of a possible correction in property prices on banks and real estate
developers-key economic indicators are provided in Table 1. The impact of such
concern was first felt in the stock market which reached a record high in early February
1997. but had fallen to a 6 year low by early September 1998. As of November 4, stock
prices had recovered strongly-by 58 percent-from their low on September 11, 1998,
but were still 50 percent below their previous high on February 3. 1997.
4.    Faced with a sustained attack on the peso, particularly after the Thai devaluation
on July 2. 1997 the central bank (BSP) substantially reduced its intervention in the
foreign exchange market as of July 11, after which the peso fell to a low of P46/US$ in
early January 1998. The peso has recovered during the course of 1998 while being
subjected to ongoing bouts of regional instability. As of November 3, 1998, the peso had
strengthened beyond P40/US$, again consistent with the recent trend towards



-2-
strengthening in regional currencies. After building reserves over a number of years (in
the process of intervening to prevent a more rapid market-driven real exchange rate
appreciation), the BSP's reserve loss in 1997 amounted to $3.4 billion, with much of this
occurring in the nine days between the floating of the Thai baht and Philippine peso. At
end-1997, adjusted gross reserves had fallen to $7.6 billion, equivalent to 1.7 months of
imports and 28 percent of broad money. As of October 9. 1998. adjusted gross reserves
had however recovered to $9.1 billion, or about 2.3 months of import cover. reflecting an
import decline and shift towards current account balance during the year.
5.    Net inflows of foreign capital fell from some $8 billion in 1996 to less than $1
billion in 1997. The initial shift in investor sentiment was driven by foreign capital, but
subsequent pressure on the exchange rate was also domestic-driven. in part by the desire
to hedge against foreign currency obligations.'
6.    The BSP has used temporary increases in its overnight rates to defend the
currency during periods of heightened speculation-its overnight borrowing rate rose to a
high of 32 percent in July 1997-but has also been cognizant of the impact of sustained
increases in overnight rates on corporate and government borrowing costs. Market
interest rates therefore peaked in late 1997 and early 1998 but have declined since then:
the benchmark 91-day Treasury bill rate had fallen to below 14 percent by August 1998
from a peak of nearly 20 percent in January; and prime lending rates have stabilized
recently at 16-17 percent from a high of over 25 percent in late 1997 (inflation is
currently at 10 percent). The initially higher interest rate structure relative to pre-crisis
levels reflected several factors: an increased risk premium on the peso; increased
perceptions of risk and preference for liquidity among bankers; and the increased cost of
maintaining the deposit base particularly among smaller banks, some of which have been
subjected to deposit withdrawals. Since early 1998, a reduction in financial
intermediation costs through adjustments in reserve requirements and an informal
agreement coordinated by the Bankers Association of the Philippines (BAP) to limit
commercial lending rates have brought down real interest rates to approximately pre-
crisis levels. though credit access for non-prime borrowers has deteriorated.
7.    Economic Impact.  The impact of financial market turbulence on economic
activity was restrained in 1997 but has become more severe in 1998. Real GDP growth
slowed to 5.4 percent in 1997 but export growth accelerated to 23 percent, and the
increase in inflation was modest. During the first half of 1998, real GDP growth was
practically flat-seasonally adjusted GDP growth is estimated at about -1.4 percent-
notwithstanding maintenance of robust export growth. Agricultural production fell by 7.5
percent in the first half of 1998 reflecting the severe drought, while industrial production
also declined as credit conditions tightened and private investment fell. The
Total foreign currency exposure of banks and corporations (including foreign currency deposits) is
estimated at $30 billion as of March 1998. Corporations owed about $23 billion in foreign currency,
of which about $11 billion was owed to domestic banks. Banks foreign currency liabilities totaled
$18.6 billion (covered by position limits).



-3-
Government's revised targets under the IMF's stand-by program include GDP growth of
I percent in 1998, average inflation of 9.5 percent. public sector and current account
deficits of 2.9 percent and 1.5 percent of GNP, respectively, but with improvements in
each of these variables projected for 1999 (Table 1). Attainment of the 1998 growth
target would require a significant recovery during the second half of the year.
8.     Social Impact. 2 The Philippines has made notable gains against poverty in recent
years: preliminary data indicate a decline in poverty incidence to 32.1 percent in 1997
from 35.5 percent in 1994. The repercussions of the financial turbulence include: reduced
affordability and access to credit for the poor and informal sectors; lower real incomes
(due primarily to the drought); reduced government services; and increased risk of
layoffs. These stresses have occurred as the drought-induced crop damage from El Nino
intensified through mid-1998. particularly in Mindanao. Unemployment in April 1998
had risen sharply relative to April 1997, but as of July 1998 it was up only marginally (to
8.9 percent versus 8.7 percent in July 1997). The relatively stable unemployment figure
for July however reflects reductions in both the labor force as well as employment
relative to 1997, which appears to indicate a decline in new job opportunities.
9.     External Financing Environment.  The volume of capital flows will clearly
impact the economic outturn. Yet the nature of private capital flows in the near term is
particularly difficult to predict in view of the prohibitive increase in recent months in the
cost of capital in international markets for emerging markets including the Philippines
and the uncertain evolution of the regional crisis.3
10.   The scenario outlined below envisages a current account deficit that falls from 5
percent of GNP in 1997 to below one percent by 1999-00 reflecting export growth
averaging 14 percent and a recovery of imports following their decline in 1998. While
short-term debt is assumed to be rolled over on a regular basis, the build up of reserves is
assumed to remain constrained by the private capital flow uncertainties and the
intermittent pressure still felt on the exchange rate.  The projections for foreign
investment are driven primarily by direct investment flows as portfolio flows are assumed
to be approximately flat in net terms. Debt finance is projected to fall relative to pre-
crisis levels, and its composition to shift towards official and multilateral resources,
reflecting the deterioration in access and terms to private capital.
2 Through its social impact assessment and review of social expenditures, the Bank is developing a
common understanding with the Government of the social impact of the financial crisis and a strategy
to address the consequences.
The interest rate spread for Philippine long-term dollar-denominated paper had declined to below 600
basis points at end October 1998 from a peak of 987 basis points on September 1, 1998.



-4-
Philippines: External Financing Requirements and Sources, 1998-00
($ Billion)
1998        1999        2000
Requirements                     4.7          5.4         6.2
Current account deficit          1.0          0.5         0.4
Amortization                     2.6          3.5         3.7
Net Reserve Increase             1.1          1.4         2.1
(excludes ST debt rollover)
Sources                          4.7          5.4         6.2
Foreign Investment               0.7          0.8         0.9
MLT Loans and Bonds              5.9          6.6         6.8
ST, Comm. Banks, E&O            -1.9         -2.0        -1.5
Source: IMF
11.   Economic Policy Responses to the Regional Crisis'. The policy response to the
difficult environment since mid-1997 has been positive overall. The conduct of monetary
policy has on balance been appropriate when evaluated against: the periodic pressures on
the peso emanating in large part from regional repercussions; the limited resources
available for intervention by the central bank; and the need to balance the negative impact
of depreciation on foreign currency debtors with the damage from higher interest rates on
corporations, banks and economic activity.
12.   The consolidated public sector deficit (CPSD) is projected to rise by about two
percentage points of GNP to nearly 3 percent in 1998 reflecting slower growth, weaker
corporate profits. and the adverse impact of interest and exchange rate trends on debt
service.  Although the Government has mandated additional restraints on public
expenditure in anticipation of fiscal pressure, efforts to protect real expenditure on vital
social services and effective safety net programs are also ongoing. For 1999, the CPSD is
targeted to decline to about 2 percent of GNP assuming the resumption of growth of
about 3.5 percent.
13.   Following the peso float in July 1997, the government immediately negotiated an
extension and augmentation of its existing Extended Financing Facility (EFF) with the
IMF, which was successfully completed on March 27, 1998. On the same date, the IMF
Board approved a new two year SDR 1,021 million precautionary stand-by program,
which recognizes the need for a cyclical increase in public deficits but also envisages
4  Reforms within banking are described in the following sections.



-5-
adjustments to improve medium-term fiscal sustainability.5 At the Government's request,
the IMF has activated its program following a Board meeting on October 30. 1998,
making available SDR 197.4 million.
11. THE BANKING SYSTEM: PAST PROGRESS AND CURRENT CONCERNS
A. Past Financial Reforms: An Overview
14.   The Philippine financial sector has undergone significant reform over the past
decade in response to the economic and financial crises of the mid 1980s. The two
largest development banks at the time-the Philippine National Bank (PNB) and the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) underwent substantial restructuring in 1987
that included: transfer of nonperforming loans (NPLs) to a separate public agency (the
Asset Privatization Trust (APT): branch closings, approval and implementation of revised
charters and rehabilitation programs, strengthened internal governance: etc. Through
most of the subsequent decade, these banks remained profitable and financially sound;
and PNB was formally incorporated as a private commercial bank in May 1996 following
the Government's reduction of its ownership stake to 45.5 percent.
15.   The central bank, which had become technically insolvent on account of the
losses accumulated over the past decade. was restructured and recapitalized in 1993 and
acquired substantial independence from other branches of government through
constitutional change. Since this major reform, the new BSP has been able to focus more
effectively on the conduct of monetary policy and supervision and regulation of banks.
16.   Complementary reforms in the early 1990s included: strengthening supervisory
and regulatory systems for commercial banks: transferring directed credit programs from
government departments to the restructured DBP: and reducing the proportion of loans
commercial banks were required to allocate to agrarian reform, agricultural credit, and
small and medium enterprises (SMEs):6 and a recapitalization of the Philippines Deposit
Insurance Corporation (PDIC). The PDIC is charged with rehabilitating or liquidating
banks closed and placed under receivership by the Monetary Board, and insures deposits
of up to P100.000-in contrast to the experience in other regional economies, there has
been no need to offer unlimited deposit insurance during the current crisis.
17.   In 1994. the maximum foreign equity participation in domestic banks was raised
from 40 to 60 percent: and in 1995. licenses were granted to 10 new foreign banks,
As described in Section IV. there has been significant coordination between the Bank and Fund in
developing with the authorities a banking reform agenda. The IMF stand-by includes measures to
strengthen the banking system within its structural benchmarks.
6   These requirements are not unduly burdensome since they can be satisfied by placing resources
instead in government securities and corporations involved with agriculture.



-6-
bringing the total number to 14, and providing the impetus for domestic banks to improve
efficiency and to modernize. Together with increases in minimum capital requirements
announced in 1995, 1997 and most recently in March 1998, the entry of foreign banks has
led to a number of bank mergers and is expected to accelerate the process of
consolidation within the banking system.
18.   A series of measures were taken in response to heightened concerns about banks'
vulnerability to real estate exposure, credit expansion and foreign exchange risk during
1996-97. In April 1997, the BSP adopted two measures to tighten regulations on real
estate lending by banks: it lowered the ceiling on an individual bank's exposure to real
estate from 30 to 20 percent of loan portfolio, giving banks one year to comply; and it
lowered the permissible ceiling on the loan-to-value ratio for real estate lending from 70
to 60 percent of the market value of the property. In June 1997, the objective of
improving the maturity profile of banks' foreign currency asset structure was announced:
since December 1997, banks have had to maintain a 15 percent foreign exchange liquid
asset requirement on their FCDU holdings; this ratio was raised to 30 percent in June
1998.
19.   A two percent general loan loss provision requirement (over two years) was
announced in late 1997, and in March 1998, the implementation period for this provision
was brought forward by one year to October 1, 1999. The criterion for classifying NPLs
was also tightened effective from April 1998, reducing from six to three months the
period for which overdue loans can be termed current. And as the risks to the banking
system have increased the authorities have been refining their intervention and resolution
strategies as discussed in Section III.B.
B. The Current Banking Environment
20.   The Philippine banking system has withstood the impact of the current crisis
better than several neighboring countries as major bank failures or a systemic crisis have
been avoided. This reflects stronger capitalization of the top tier banks and greater
resiliency within the corporate sector.
21.   Nevertheless, the banking and corporate sectors are encountering greater stress.
The quality of bank assets has deteriorated, capital adequacy has weakened, and once
exceptionally strong earnings have fallen. Annualized loan growth has slowed to
approximately 10 percent, which incorporates conversions of dollar to peso-denominated
loans and interest capitalization. Several banks have withdrawn from the SME and
consumer credit markets and, rather than lend to new borrowers, have stayed liquid and
used their funds to invest in government securities. Moreover, the banking system may
have to go through a period of further consolidation and retrenching-this will depend in
large part on the speed and vigor with which economic recovery can be attained. This
section summarizes the main concerns.



-7-
(i) Financial Condition of the Banking System
22.   Total assets of the banking system stood at about P2.77 trillion at end-1997 (about
equal to GNP), a 31 percent increase over 1996 (Table 5). Universal and commercial
banks account for 90 percent of total assets; thrift and rural banks hold about 8 and 2
percent of assets respectively.7 Preliminary data through mid-1998 indicate a marked
deceleration in asset growth.
23.   As a group, universal and commercial banks reported healthy profit levels through
1997, largely as a result of widening gross interest margins. Nevertheless, rising NPLs.
increased incidences of rollovers. rescheduling and corporate recourse to legal suspension
of payments. falling real estate collateral values, use of BSP liquidity support by selected
institutions, and difficulties in complying with legal reserve requirements for some banks,
all point to increasing signs of stress. The BAP expects commercial bank earnings to
drop by 10 to 25 percent in 1998. The problems are more acute among smaller
commercial banks, thrift banks, and rural banks owing to the characteristics of their asset
portfolios-comprising higher shares of lending to small businesses, consumer loans and
real estate-weaker credit management systems. and a slower response capacity to the
changing environment.
24.   The growth of NPLs illustrates the increasing stress. BSP figures indicate the
ratio of NPLs for all banks rose to 9.7 percent in June 1998. compared to 3.4 percent a
year earlier. NPLs of commercial banks stood at 8.9 percent in June 1998, and those of
thrift and rural banks stood at 16.7 percent and 15.4 percent. respectively (Table 6).
25.   Capital Adequacy.  As of June 1998. the banking system's average capital
adequacy ratio is officially estimated at 17.1 percent, among the highest in the region.
But, even as minimum capital requirements are being raised. capital levels will fall as
banks fully provision for collateralized loans and restructured nonperforming loans. In
most banks, capital will be further strained as the banks begin to follow international
accounting standards and mark their trading books to market.
26.   Moreover, the quatility of bank capital is as much a concern as its quantity, given
the interlocked balance sheets of many groups owning financial and nonfinancial entities.
If the interlocked balance sheets were fully consolidated, what appears as capital in the
bank may. in fact. be offset by a liability to another bank through a related party.
Through double leverage bank capital therefore could be supporting more assets than is
readily apparent from viewing an individual bank's balance sheet.
27.   Off-Balance Sheet Activities. The single largest component of such activity is
trust department accounts, which are equivalent to about 14 percent of total assets. Most
7   Universal (or 'expanded commercial banks") are licensed for commercial and investment banking.
There are 54 universal and commercial banks (of which 14 foreign), 117 thrift banks, and 832 rural
banks.



-8-
trust departments purchase loans from the commercial side of the bank or extend credit
directly to borrowers who also borrow from the commercial bank. Although legally
separated from the bank's operations. many market participants believe that in the event
of problems, banks would have to stand behind their trust assets, particularly the trust
holdings of loans. BSP regards common trusts to be 'deposit substitutes" and subjects
them to deposit reserves. But trust loan holdings are not considered when determining
the adequacy of bank capital or loan loss reserves.
28.   Banks continue to be active in derivatives. However, the bulk of derivatives
activity is concentrated in relatively simple contracts. particularly foreign exchange
forwards and swaps. About two-thirds of these transactions are undertaken by foreign
owned banks. The credit and market risks associated with Philippine bank derivative use
are small in comparison with the credit risk exposure within the banks' loan books.
29.   Transparency. Aside from the difficulties in interpreting true NPL and capital
levels, transparency has been hampered by inadequate financial disclosure standards.
Furthermore, the accounting industry is dominated by a single firm that audits most of the
major banks' financial statements.
30.   Loan Classification and Provisioning. Until recently, loan loss provisions were
not required for assets backed by collateral even if such assets were classified as
substandard, or for assets criticized as especially mentioned.8 While specific assets
among these categories may not be immediately identified as having loss potential, there
is loss potential within the aggregate of these assets, indicating the need for some form of
provisioning.
31.   Real Estate Exposure. The average outstanding real estate loan exposure of
banks is relatively modest, about 12 percent of total loans in mid- 1998. Banks' exposure
to the property sector however appears understated as it does not include their equity
stakes in real estate companies and projects, or loans to individual investors whose
capacity to repay depends upon the sale of the real estate. It is difficult to obtain a
realistic value of real estate because there is little liquidity in the market. Overall, real
estate is reported to have lost around 25 percent value since its recent peak in the high-
end market but only 5 percent in the low/medium cost market. Bank exposures to the
middle and low cost segments of the property sector appear less risky as the buyers tend
to be end-users and not investors or speculators.
32.   Systemic Liquidity. The interbank lending market has become segmented, with
many larger banks reducing or ceasing credit lines to smaller banks. To help banks
suffering from liquidity problems, the BSP's extension of emergency loans has increased
significantly since the onset of the crisis. However, lack of detailed information on
8   A recent BSP directive however addresses this deficiency effective as of end 1998. A general loan
loss provision was also introduced in October 1997, which is to reach 2 percent by October 1999
(Annex 4).



-9-
liquidity support to the banking sector, including foreign currency funding. prevents a full
assessment of current and potential liquidity problems.
33.   Entry and Exit. The number of banks in the financial system has strained
supervisory capacity. Entry into the system has been lax on occasion-e.g. Orient Bank
obtained a commercial bank license less than a year before it ran into serious difficulty.
and despite indications it was not a well managed thrift bank. The BSP recently imposed
stricter criteria for new bank entry. Senior bank officers must now have at least two years
experience in banking. BSP will also require the submission of a detailed plan of
operation, chart of organization. and a manual of operations before a bank is issued a
permit to operate. Exit from the system is constrained by weaknesses in the legal
framework (para. 41). The current market environment also complicates the troubled
bank resolution strategy. In 1998 through October. 21 banks had been closed, including
14 rural banks, six thrift banks. and the first commercial bank to be closed since the onset
of the crisis. An average of 15 (primarily rural) banks have been closed annually since
1995.
34.   Orient Bank. In February 1998. the Orient Commercial Banking Corporation,
with assets of P8 billion, declared a self-imposed bank holiday after experiencing heavy
deposit withdrawals. The bank had P2.3 billion and only P1 billion of these deposits are
insured. A huge concentration of insider loans was discovered after the "holiday" was
declared, and NPLs were reportedly 75 percent of assets. In mid-October, after protracted
negotiations, the bank was finally placed under receivership by the Monetary Board.
Thrift and Rural Banks
35.   Thrift and rural banks in aggregate are experiencing far greater stress than
commercial banks, and several may have difficulty meeting the BSP's new capital and
loan loss provisioning requirements.
36.   As of June 1998. thrift banks' NPLs were reported at 16.7 percent; when
combined with totals of foreclosed and repossessed assets and loans reported as
restructured, the total of all loans not performing according to original schedule rises to
about 30 percent of total thrift loans. Three quarters of the total loans held by thrifts are
concentrated in the ten largest thrift banks. and two have received open bank assistance
from the BSP. Overall thrift profitability is down, and a number of thrift banks are
expected to show losses in 1998. As of March 1998, 15.4 percent of rural bank loans
were reported past due, rising to about 19 percent of total rural bank loans applying the
above criteria. This level of performance is consistent with that of prior periods.



-10-
(ii) Supervisory Effectiveness 9
37.   On-site Examinations.  On-site examinations have tended to focus excessively
on compliance with numerous rules and are overly process and check-list driven. There
has been too little prioritization of issues or criticisms. Examination reports have tended
to emphasize asset quality at the near exclusion of: assessment of the bank's overall
financial condition and performance and the quality of its management: liquidity; asset
and liability management; profitability; the adequacy of capital; and the efficiency of the
bank's risk management systems. Other weaknesses have included a lack of flexibility in
examination scheduling, slow report processing. and a failure to adequately communicate
report findings to a bank's board of directors.
38.   The need for a more analytical approach. whereby assessments of the risk
management practices of each bank and other important banking risks are thoroughly
evaluated, solvency is assessed on a consolidated basis, and the results are communicated
to bank management on a timely basis is now recognized.
39.   Off-site  Monitoring. The  off-site  monitoring  of banks  also  requires
strengthening. For instance, the early warning system (known as SLIM for solvency,
liquidity, income, and management) takes selected ratios in isolation, weights them, and
computes an aggregate score for the bank. The previous mechanistic approach is
becoming more analytical.
40.   Until recently, CAMEL ratings did not necessarily portray the financial condition
of the institutions rated realistically.  For example. to determine the overall rating,
individual component ratings were summed and averaged, and the process lacked the
element of judgment that is the supervisor's most important skill. Progress towards a
more judgmental approach is now underway. and CAMEL ratings have also been
improved: the new CAMEL rating can never be higher than a bank's capital adequacy
rating.
41.   Legal Concerns and Enforcement. Supervisory effectiveness and enforcement
of regulatory standards have been constrained by a number of factors including: an
unusual degree of personal liability of supervisors in the conduct of official business;
bank secrecy provisions that restrict supervisor access to deposit information; inadequate
penalties for bank noncompliance with regulatory norms; constraints on the examination
cycle that discourage timely follow-up of corrective action; and a number of obstacles to
closure of insolvent banks by the Monetary Board and prompt resolution of failed banks
by the PDIC.  Section III.E describes the legislative initiatives to address these
constraints.
9  This section summarizes problems within supervision at the onset of the crisis. Significant progress is
being made towards supervisory effectiveness in the past two years as described in Section III.A.



(iii) Structural Distortions in the Banking System
42.   Distortions in the financial sector have led to significant regulatory and tax
arbitrage across institutions and currency. Differences in the tax structure and in the
treatment of reserve requirements on peso versus foreign currency deposits have
encouraged dollar intermediation in the past. although the disincentives to peso
intermediation were reduced recently with the introduction of a 7.5 percent tax on interest
income of foreign currency deposits and a 30 percent liquid asset requirement on foreign
currency assets of FCDUs.
43.   The differentiated tax treatment across financial institutions may have prompted
disintermediation from the commercial banking sector into bank-substitutes that may be
less well-regulated. The uneven tax treatment, for example. has motivated some banks to
establish thrifts subsidiaries. while the non-uniformity of prudential regulation may have
led banks to establish foreign exchange subsidiaries. Peso intermediation is further
discouraged by a peso payment system that appears less liquid and less efficient than the
dollar payment system.
C. The Corporate Sector
44.   The Philippine corporate sector has been spared from the massive disruptions
experienced in neighboring countries. This primarily reflects smaller exposure to foreign
debt and lower debt-to-equity ratios.'° Nonetheless, a prolonged period of weakening
activity or renewed financial market instability would pose additional problems.
45.   The sector is dominated by a relatively small number of large groups. In addition
to owning major manufacturing and services sectors, these groups control many of the
major banks in the country. This linkage has been a source of stability as bank loans are
concentrated towards the largest corporations, which have proved more creditworthy.
Yet it also carries additional risks. In particular, it may be more difficult for corporate
groups that themselves face additional stress to also maintain capital at required levels
within the banks they own or control. The near closure of Philippine Airlines points to
such vulnerability.
46.   The framework governing debt restructuring consists of arbitration by the courts
or by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), but both approaches have
encountered problems. A debtor can apply in court for suspension of payments but this
does not prevent secured creditors from foreclosing, making rehabilitation difficult or
impossible. To remedy this problem. the SEC has had the authority (since 1976) to grant
a payments suspension. However. since the SEC has the sole authority to decide on a
rehabilitation plan. the rights of secured creditors may not be adequately protected.
'°  The debt-equity ratio for the top 5,000 corporations in the Philippines is estimated at 1.9 as of March
1998. This compares (at end-1997) to 2.2 in Malaysia; 2.3 in Indonesia; 4.1 in Thailand; and 6.4 in
Korea.



-12-
Moreover, SEC's capacity to handle its increasing workload has been strained and could
face further pressure.
47.   In the short run, the SEC's capability to handle its larger caseload of debt
restructuring needs to be strengthened. The Government also needs to decide whether to
transfer the SEC's quasi-judicial functions to, for example. a special bankruptcy court.
which would enable the SEC to concentrate on its regulatory responsibilities. Disclosure
standards within corporations also need to be strengthened and better enforced; the
concentrated ownership structure and cross-holdings between banks and corporations
makes improved disclosure especially important. Finally, there is a need to examine the
adequacy of current bankruptcy legislation and the efficacy of the judicial process for
handling liquidation of insolvent firms.
48.   Bank and Fund staff jointly have initiated dialogue on these issues. The Bank's
recently approved financial sector PHRD grant for the Philippines intends to strengthen
capacity within the SEC. and the Government has requested further assistance from the
Bank to strengthen corporate debt restructuring procedures and policies and prepare a
new bankruptcy law.
111. REFORM AGENDA FOR THE BANKING SYSTEM
49.   The East Asian crisis has highlighted the vulnerability of small open economies to
capital flow shocks. Given the dominance of the banking system in intermediating
financial flows within the Philippines. the authorities recognize the importance of
strengthening the banking system-both in its capacity to withstand further shocks
stemming from the current crisis. and in its resilience towards handling future shocks and
capital flow volatility. Hence the authorities have embarked upon a comprehensive
reform agenda within the banking sector that would: significantly raise prudential
banking standards and supervisory effectiveness; enhance market discipline through
stricter disclosure requirements and transparency; reduce regulatory arbitrage and
intermediation costs; and adapt an intervention and resolution strategy for troubled banks
in a manner that preserves confidence but does not distort owner incentives. In addition,
the Government has decided to sell its shares in PNB-the second largest bank in the
country-to a strategic private investor and has initiated a process to strengthen PNB
during the interim  period.  A significant legislative agenda is being prepared for
submission to the new Congress to support these objectives. Sections A through E below
describe the reform program that is underway or anticipated and would be supported by
the proposed loan.
50.   Underlying the banking reform program is a vision for the medium term that bank
owners, buttressed by higher capital and stricter provisioning requirements and subjected
to more stringent scrutiny from supervisors and market participants, will be more
discriminating in intermediating financial flows particularly as they involve foreign
currency, major term transformation, or lending to volatile sectors such as real estate.



- 13 -
While the reform program is comprehensive in design. it is also pragmatic in that the
timing and sequencing of proposed measures has been structured so as not to undermine
economic recovery.
51.   An essential complement to such a vision is the parallel development of the
broader financial system in order to encourage equity finance and longer-term debt
instruments and avoid over-reliance on the banking system and external finance. In this
regard, there is considerable scope for expanding the pool of contractual savings (pension
funds. pre-need, and life insurance companies) and transforming these into more efficient
vehicles for capital market development and domestic long-term savings mobilization."
A. Strengthening the Prudential Framework
(i) Prudential Standards
52.   In March 1998, the authorities announced a schedule to raise minimum capital
requirements through December 2000. and intend to extend the 10 percent capital
adequacy requirement to universal banks previously exempted.'2 To complement the
recently accelerated schedule to raise the general loan loss provision requirement to two
percent. banks have been instructed to make a 25 percent loan loss provision for all loans
classified substandard and a 5 percent provision for especially mentioned loans by April
15, 1999, with intermediate provisions of 12.5 and 2.5 percent respectively set for end-
1998.
53.   Stricter qualification and competency criteria for new licenses have been put in
place as of March 1998 to facilitate the intended consolidation of the banking system. At
the same time, it is recognized that unrestricted ownership of domestic financial
institutions by major multinational banks could be an important means of resolving bank
failures and enhancing competition. Hence qualified foreign banks are to be allowed full
ownership of troubled domestic banks (for up to five years-see Section III.E) as
exceptions to the current 60 percent foreign share ownership limit.
54.   To enhance transparency and market discipline. BSP  issued Circular 157
(effective from December 1998) obligating listed banks to disclose and discuss publicly
more detailed information on a quarterly basis, including information relating to the level
of non-performing loans, classified assets, and loan loss reserves (both specific and
general). Additional disclosure requirements are to be imposed on both listed and non-
listed banks in agreement with the Bank (LDP para. 20). In addition, commercial banks
The Bank is discussing with the Philippine Government the scope for reforming the contractual
savings system and housing finance (which relies heavily on pension fund resources) to further these
objectives.
The specifics on these and other policies are contained in the explanatory notes of the Policy Matrix
(Annex 2) and Annex 4.



-14-
will be required to make public statements on a quarterly basis about whether they are
fully complying with prudential rules and whether the internal risk control is adequate.
BSP has issued a circular pertaining to mark-to-market trading and equity portfolios and
mark-to-market accounting procedures conforming to international norms. which became
effective in September 1998. Finally. the quality of audits of financial institutions is
slated to improve by placing external auditors under an affirmative obligation to inform
BSP of factors that materially affect the soundness of a financial institution and by
implementing a system of BSP accreditation of external auditors that may be hired by
banks and quasi-banks.
55.   The Monetary Board has developed formal policies with respect to concentrations
of credit or investment in borrowers or borrower groups associated with a bank's owners.
During the transition toward consolidated supervision, all equity investments in affiliates
and nonfinancial firms where the bank is the majority or controlling owner are to be
deducted from bank capital. given the concern noted with respect to the quality of capital.
(ii) Supervisory Effectiveness
56.   The Monetary Board's role in the supervisory process is being redefined to focus
on the definition of broad policy goals and strategies and on improvement of BSP's legal
and prudential standards, rather than on direct involvement in day-to-day supervisory
operations.  The authorities are also considering better alignment of  the use of
supervisory resources with systemic concerns by developing a hierarchy-of-risk model
that establishes priority for the allocation of resources.
57.   Regulatory oversight is being strengthened by a shift away from a check-list
driven type of examination to a more analytical approach. which focuses on an
assessment of the consolidated risk management practices of each bank and its affiliates.
A revised "risk based" report of examination has been tested and is replacing the
unnecessarily detailed examination report previously in use.
58.   The examination process is being reoriented to assess risk and the systems used
by a bank to manage risk, including liquidity, interest rate. foreign exchange risks, and
risks accruing from derivatives and other off-balance sheet activities. This can be
achieved by more in-depth training of personnel in new examination methodologies,
updating examination tools and processes. and implementing the proposed revised report
of examination. As part of this reorientation, responsibility for evaluating foreign
exchange activities will be rolled into bank supervision. All examination activities are to
focus on the consolidated banking group, so that no significant activity is permitted to
escape supervision and the application of sound prudential rules and requirements. Staff
training is proposed to facilitate the change from a largely mechanistic use of CAMEL
and SLIM ratings to a more judgmental use, in order to more accurately portray the
condition of a bank.



-15-
59.   Greater flexibility has been introduced in the scheduling of examinations and
examination activities so that resources can be employed in areas of greatest risk and
follow-up corrective action can be taken in a timely manner. To bypass current legal
restrictions on the one examination per year limit, the BSP is using its special
examination authority to schedule examinations more frequently in banks exhibiting
high-risk characteristics.
60.   Examination findings are being made more timely. This is being accomplished by
using the proposed revised report of examination, eliminating the vast amount of detail in
the reports, introducing computers into the examination process, and minimizing the role
of the Monetary Board in routine report review matters. All examination reports are to be
discussed directly with the bank's board of directors in the case of troubled banks.
Communications are being improved by prioritizing the examination report's presentation
of issues and criticisms so that bank management and the bank's board of directors may
more readily understand the relative importance of the various findings.
61.   To strengthen off-site monitoring, the data collected through prudential reporting
are to be presented in a comprehensive manner and logical format that provides an
improved basis for analysis. Monitoring activities will focus not only on individual
banks, but also on systemic concerns such as the potential impact posed by
conglomerates and major shareholders, industry concentrations, new instruments, and
dependence on volatile sources of funding.
1B. Refining the Intervention and Resolution Strategy
62.   The true level of capitalization of the Philippine banking system has undoubtedly
been weakened by macroeconomic events over the past year. Moreover, the banking
system may be subjected to further stress. Hence the authorities' initiatives to develop
and implement a strategy for identifying and dealing with insolvent or undercapitalized
banks is timely.
63.   As with any appropriate resolution strategy, the authorities' initiatives include
three distinct elements.
(i) A Crash Program of Intensified Monitoring of Selected Banks
64.   A "watch list" of potential problem banks has been drawn up by BSP with a view
to conducting a special program of supplementary on-site inspections. The forward
looking criteria being used in drawing up this list includes: recourse to BSP emergency
lending; significant and continuous reductions in deposits; off market interest rates on
deposits for a prolonged period; rapid loan growth; heavy reliance on borrowing from the
inter-bank market; inadequate risk management capability; funding vulnerabilities
especially rollover risk for foreign exchange liabilities and liquidity cover; and
inadequate processes and systems that contribute to poor asset quality. Backward looking



-16-
criteria include: CAMEL ratings; capital adequacy, asset quality; sound management
criteria; earnings and liquidity. The list gives priority to institutions potentially posing
the greatest systemic risks.
65.   The Monetary Board has given approval for supplementary on-site inspections of
commercial, thrift and rural banks on the list. thereby effectively overriding the normal
arrangement whereby inspections have been limited to once-a-year.  Hence the
authorization for special inspections would become a blanket one to allow BSP to move
preemptively.
66.   The special inspections that are being conducted by elite monitoring teams
focusing on asset quality as well as liquidity pressures are expected to adopt a more
conservative approach on loan quality assessment likely leading to much higher
provisioning requirements.
67.   It is recognized that timeliness is of the essence: hence the main preliminary
findings of the inspection are to be reported to the Monetary Board within one week from
the end of the on-site inspection with the full report available soon thereafter. This
finding would include a critical assessment of capital adequacy adopting more realistic
forward-looking projections and paying particular attention to loans that, though current,
have been extended.
(ii) Explicit Procedures and Rules Establishing a Graduated Response to Capital
Shortfalls
68.   The second element of the early intervention and resolution strategy, is to
formalize the rules to address the capital deficiencies that are uncovered, with the
objective of providing banks an explicit set of sanctions and corrective actions to be
applied automatically, thereby strengthening regulatory authority and providing banks
appropriate incentives to take preemptive steps on their own initiative.
69.   In September 1998. a Circular was issued that provides for a matrix of sanctions
according to the degree of capital deficiency, with sanctions differentiated by capital
deficiencies ranging from up to 20. 40. 60, 80 percent, and more than 80 percent-
including, for the latter, the issuance by the authorities of a "cease and desist" order,
which allows the Monetary Board to prevent the institution from doing business in the
Philippines and designate the PDIC as receiver.
70.   This matrix of sanctions is to be complemented by a matrix of corrective actions
to be issued shortly by the BSP. Such a matrix will clarify to the banks the regulatory
actions they would face as the capital adequacy ratio falls below the mandated level.
Included among these actions would be the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding
by the bank drawn in consultation with the BSP, specifying the actions to be followed to
solve the problem; and signing of a binding agreement on a recapitalization and
restructuring plan. elaborated by the BSP in consultation with the bank's management.



-17-
71.   An important objective of the corrective actions is to initiate earlier intervention
in failing banks to minimize public losses and facilitate options other than liquidation.
Proposed legislation to complement these actions include: increased penalties for
noncompliance; tighter criteria for emergency lending; broader grounds for placing a
bank under receivership, including when the capital to risk assets ratio falls below 2
percent; and enhanced ability of PDIC to dispose of assets (Section III.E).
(iii) Strategy for Problem Bank Resolution
72.   The authorities are assessing the range of resolution strategies (including variants
of the good bank/bad bank approaches). consistent with existing law and proposed
amendments, since the open bank assisted preferred merger option may not be available
in all cases. Since intervention actions need to be taken speedily, it will be desirable to
adopt and communicate to the banks a set of templates representing the range of possible
forms of intervention. The design of such templates would be geared towards ensuring
that existing owners can be successfully removed from control of the bank but will guard
against pre-commitment of public funds.
73.   Other advance preparation will include the establishment of a roster of pre-
qualified persons that can be called upon to take over the management of intervened
banks. The BAP may be able to assist in identifying suitable persons.
74.   In order to be better prepared for the eventuality, however remote, that problems
could arise simultaneously at a large number of banks, the authorities recognize the need
to widen the horizon of the current contingency planning exercise to cover a worst case
scenario of systemic problems. Such a scenario might not be amenable to the current
preferred approach of resolution through merger in the short run. Dealing with the
liquidity, management and ownership issues efficiently in such a circumstance will
require a clear division of responsibilities and a common view as to the trigger points for
the various responses.
75.   A prime concern of intervention is to avoid contagious depositor runs. The risk of
contagion will be minimized by conducting interventions in a prompt, well-coordinated
and systematic manner. The need to extend depositor guarantees beyond what is already
established by PDIC is not currently anticipated. Nevertheless, contingency planning is
being undertaken to address scenarios in which liquidity support and deposit guarantees
may have to be broadened, and to determine the trigger points and modalities of funding
in such cases. The authorities recognize that dealing with the liquidity, management and
ownership issues efficiently in such circumstances will require an integrated approach
and close cooperation between government agencies.



-18-
C. Strengthening Government Owned or Controlled Banks
76.   An essential element for enhancing the overall soundness of the banking system is
to strengthen on a sustainable basis the financial performance of PNB, which among the
major banks has suffered disproportionately during the current crisis. The current
ownership structure of PNB-in which the Government is the largest single shareholder
with a 45.5 percent stake and where private share ownership is highly dispersed (with
some 30,000 small shareholders)-has not proved conducive to compete effectively with
the other major banks, particularly in the current environment.'4 For example. credit and
risk policies and the degree of automation lag behind those of industry leaders.
77.   The Philippine authorities have therefore concluded that the ultimate means of
transforming PNB into a top rated bank is to seek a private equity partner that would have
the incentive and ability to raise and maintain PNB's competitiveness, loan portfolio and
capital adequacy up to the top tier of industry standards. The Government has therefore
initiated a process to sell its shares in PNB as soon as feasible. It is recognized that given
PNB's status as the second largest bank in the country, only respected foreign and local
banks will be included among those invited to bid for strategic ownership.
78.   To ensure that the sale of government shares is conducted according to
international best practice, the Department of Finance (DOF) intends to contract the
services of a reputable financial advisory firm on all aspects of the sale (financial advisor
terms of reference are contained in Annex 3). The advisory firm will be charged with
preparing an information memorandum prior to sale of government shares. BSP's special
inspection of PNB is being updated (using information as of September 30, 1998) to
facilitate the financial advisor's due diligence. and to ensure that regulatory oversight of
PNB continues to proceed on the basis of up-to-date information. In addition, it is
expected that the advisory firm will need to conduct or commission a thorough audit of
PNB in order to prepare the requisite information memorandum and to determine the
nature of actions that need to be undertaken prior to the sale of government shares. The
terms of reference for such an audit will be made satisfactory to the World Bank. (A
sample terms of reference has been provided to the Government). The Government
intends to work with PNB's new management and Board and cooperate with the advisory
firm to improve PNB's financial performance and thereby also facilitate the objective of
selling its shares to a respected private investor through a transparent and internationally
accepted bidding process.
79.   While management control of PNB is be shifted to the private sector, the
importance of maintaining strong standards of governance over the government owned
banks-the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Land Bank of the
Philippines (LB)-is recognized. In the context of proposed financial intermediation
loans from the World Bank to these institutions, which addresses the objective of
maintaining credit access to SMEs, the Government intends to commission audits based
14 Of PNB's II Board members, the majority including the chairman are appointed by the Government.



-19-
on international best practices of DBP and LB, and to implement the recommendations
arising from these audits.
D. Reducing Regulatory Arbitrage and Intermediation Costs
80.   Increases in interest rates since mid 1997 have had the effect of increasing the
burden of reserve requirements and the gross receipts tax (GRT). This has added to
intermediation costs and thus to the cost of borrowing."5 In addition. the differentiated
treatment of foreign currency and peso deposits. and of thrifts and commercial banks, has
led to a degree of regulatory arbitrage. The ongoing reforms in prudential supervision
described above should reduce the prudential risks associated with such arbitrage, but
reduction of the underlying distortions is also desirable.
81.   In 1998. the authorities have on balance lowered peso intermediation costs while
minimizing unintended liquidity side-effects. In two stages. during March and May 1998,
reserve requirements on commercial banks were reduced from 13 to 8 percent. and
reserve requirements for demand deposits. NOW accounts and deposit substitute
liabilities in thrift and rural banks were also reduced to 8 percent. Compensating
increases in liquidity reserves were enforced in March 1998."6 Reserve requirements on
commercial banks were raised in early October to 10 percent in a (successful) effort to
stabilize the foreign exchange market.   However, to  minimize the impact on
intermediation costs. the interest rate paid by the BSP on 40 percent of the banks'
balances with the BSP was commensurately raised to 4.5 percent from 4 percent. The
authorities recognize that remaining reserve requirement differences between functionally
equivalent deposits in commercial banks and thrifts need to be removed to eliminate
arbitrage opportunities. However. given that thrift banks as a group are under relatively
greater stress than commercial banks. the current environment is not considered
conducive to equalize reserve requirements across banking categories-which would
require legislative action.
82.   The authorities have taken additional measures to reduce the differential in tax
and reserve treatment between peso and foreign exchange business in order to reduce the
incentive for currency substitution. A withholding tax of 7.5 percent was introduced in
January 1998 to apply to interest payable to residents on foreign currency deposits. (The
withholding tax on peso deposits is 20 percent.) A 15 percent liquid asset requirement on
foreign currency assets was introduced in December 1997, and this was raised to 30
percent in June 1998. These measures appear to have contributed to a sizeable reduction
in the share of foreign currency intermediation since mid 1997 (which, however, is also at
5  For example. it is estimated that the fiscal and quasi-fiscal contribution to the marginal cost of
intermediation increases from 260 basis points when the net marginal cost of funds is 10 percent to
500 basis points when this cost is 20 percent.
lb  Liquidity reserves are invested in government securities bearing interest rates 100 basis points below
market.



-20-
least partly the result of the financial turbulence). Should foreign currency intermediation
resume growth at an unsustainable pace, the authorities remain committed to adopt
additional corrective measures in the direction of harmonized treatment of intermediation
in different currencies.
83.   In 1997, tax legislation in relation to the withholding tax on government securities
was amended to close what had been a significant revenue loophole benefiting banks.
The authorities also intend to reduce the burden of the documentary stamp tax (DST) and
the GRT, as part of a longer-term reform of the taxation of financial institutions whose
objective would be to enhance efficiency in a broadly revenue neutral manner. In such a
reform, which will require further study. the DST and GRT would likely be replaced by a
VAT-like charge based on each bank's profits and salaries.
84.   Finally, to encourage better reserving practice leading to sounder bank
management decisions, the authorities intend to allow tax deductibility to be claimed by
banks on the recently implemented provisions for specific loan-losses. It is recognized
that to the extent such tax deductibility improves provisioning practices and contributes
to sounder bank management practices. it could potentially save budgetary costs in the
longer term and also help to lower intermediation costs. However, in light of the sharply
increased fiscal pressure in 1998, and the initial cash-flow cost to the budget of this
measure, proposed legislation to Congress is being temporarily deferred.
E. Legislative and Regulatory Agenda
85.   The legislative and regulatory agenda to support the above goals has three broad
objectives:
- to protect officials of the Monetary Board and BSP and PDIC personnel from suits
arising out of their official conduct,
* to enhance the supervisory and enforcement powers of BSP and PDIC; and
* to augment the legal authority of BSP and PDIC to resolve insolvent banks.
86.   The first objective is to protect banking officials from litigation arising from
the performance of their responsibilities. Currently, banks regulated by BSP and
insured by PDIC. may sue for damages or file a criminal complaint on the basis of actions
that regulatory officials have taken in the course of supervising or closing a bank. Such
suits and the threat of litigation appear to have constrained the ability of supervisors to
conduct full and unfettered examinations of banks, as well as to take appropriate actions
to resolve insolvent banks. In addition. the ability of BSP to close insolvent banks needs
to be strengthened. The leading Philippine Supreme Court case in this area was a 1991
decision in which the central bank's closing of a bank was overturned, its finding of
insolvency ruled inadequate and the bank reopened (and the original owners reinstated)
after some five years of litigation. Most recently, the owners of Orient Bank have
brought a civil lawsuit against senior BSP officials alleging "undue haste" in placing the



-21-
bank under receivership (as of October 13. 1998). The Bank has proposed a number of
amendments to relevant laws that would limit the ability of a private party to bring suit
for damages and would enhance legal protection for bank examiners.
87.   To restrict the ability of a bank to challenge its closing. BSP has proposed
legislation that banks seeking emergency loans would have to reimburse the BSP for any
losses incurred by the central bank from lawsuits contesting the appointment of a
conservator or receiver in the event that the bank is eventually closed. However, the
authorities are not convinced that further legislation would be effective in providing
greater protection to banking officials, and have pointed to an Executive Order (E.O. 292)
that already provides a degree of legal protection to public officers. Further work on this
topic is therefore to be commissioned and concluded by January 1999. If the outcome of
this forthcoming review calls for measures to strengthen legal protection for bank
examiners, an action plan and timetable for implementation would be incorporated into
the conditions for the proposed loan, as described in the LDP and Policy Matrix.
88.   The second objective is to enhance the supervisory and enforcement powers
of the BSP and PDIC. New legislation is being proposed to substantially increase the
civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed by the BSP or the PDIC for violations of
banking laws, to empower BSP to suspend and remove directors and officers for
violations of law, and to broaden the grounds on which BSP may appoint a receiver. In
addition, legislation has been proposed to permit bank examinations outside the annual
cycle at the discretion of senior BSP officials but without the need for pre-approval by the
Monetary Board. Tightening requirements for the use of BSP emergency advances, and
restricting access of banks to overdrafts from BSP in the absence of collateral are also to
be proposed.
89.   New legislation is also needed to allow BSP and PDIC bank examiners routine
access to the identities of depositors as an exception to the Law on Secrecy of Bank
Deposits. Such access is an important part of banking supervision, facilitates a number of
prudential and failure resolution functions. and is considered an international best
practice. The authorities have recognized the benefits of such access (LDP, para. 48), but
have expressed concern that actions to permit routine supervisory access could provoke
depositor flight particularly in the current market environment. In the meantime, the
Government stands ready to cooperate with international anti-money laundering efforts
on a case-by-case basis.
90.   The third objective is to augment the legal authority of BSP to close insolvent
banks and PDIC to resolve closed banks promptly. As described in Section III.B, a
series of sanctions and corrective actions to address capital deficiencies within banks is
being enacted. To complement these measures, legislation is being proposed to allow
BSP to place banks under receivership if: their capital to risk assets ratio falls below 2
percent, if they declare a holiday; or they remain open but do not pay depositors. PDIC's
ability to resolve bank failures is also being enhanced to minimize government losses and
allow depositors prompter access to their insured deposits. Thus, once the Monetary



-22-
Board has placed a bank under PDIC receivership, it has been clarified that PDIC will be
able to clean the bank's assets without the need for further approval from the Monetary
Board and without being obliged to entertain rehabilitation proposals from existing
owners.
91.   Other supportive measures to enhance PDIC's ability to resolve insolvent banks
are under consideration. For example. the ability to conduct "purchase and assumption"
transactions would facilitate resolution outcomes other than liquidation of failing banks.
And the PDIC could be given the authority to charter a "bridge bank," when needed to
stem runs by depositors or to resolve a major insolvent bank.
92.   In order to increase transparency  in the rehabilitation or resolution of
undercapitalized or insolvent banks, the BSP and PDIC will need to take actions to: spell
out the rules for open bank assistance. including treatment of shareholders, new capital
requirements. and treatment of bad assets; and lay out the rules for bidders well in
advance of any bid deadline. along with copies of any financing agreements as to which
either agency will be a party. The bidders need to know what is expected of them and
what they should expect from the regulators as early as possible in the bidding process.
93.   Liberalized ownership of domestic financial institutions by foreign banks could be
an important means of increasing the number of bidders to resolve insolvent banks, which
would bring new capital, technology and management expertise into the system, and also
enhance competition. In this regard. the Government's legislative proposal calls for
allowing 100 percent ownership for troubled banks (while requiring dilution of foreign
ownership to 85 percent within five years and 70 percent within ten years).
94.   Finally, the legislative implications of dealing with large scale banking
insolvencies, as have occurred in neighboring countries, is undergoing greater scrutiny.
PDIC has assessed that its insurance fund  is fully adequate to handle the routine
insolvencies that it typically addresses (primarily involving rural banks). The authorities
nevertheless recognize that emergency legislation would be required to make available
budget resources to deal with the failure of a large bank or more widespread distress in
smaller institutions if such distress were to constitute a threat to the stability of the
financial system.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Background and Rationale
95.   The Bank has been actively engaged in the reform of the Philippine financial
sector since the early 1980s: indeed. the Bank played a significant role in several of the
key reforms described in Section II.A.'' Prior to the current regional crisis, technical
17  As described most recently in the OED's Philippines Country Assistance Review (March 2, 1998)



-23-
assistance on strengthening the banking system was most recently provided by the Bank
on two occasions in 1996.
96.   The proposed loan, which is consistent with the objectives of the CAS progress
report submitted to the Executive Board in March 1998. responds to a request from the
Philippine authorities for assistance from  the Bank.  Specifically. the authorities
requested technical assistance and balance of payments financing to strengthen the
financial sector and improve confidence in the current uncertain external financing
environment.
97.   In response, a Bank team working in parallel with a mission from the IMF's
Monetary and Exchange Affairs (MAE) Department. provided technical assistance to the
authorities in February 1998 on strengthening the banking system.'8 Since then, there has
been an active dialogue on banking with the authorities. Ongoing TA on banking would
be facilitated in the course of supervision of the proposed loan. In addition, the Bank will
provide TA through a PHRD grant recently approved by Japan to strengthen supervision
capabilities within the BSP and PDIC and to strengthen the SEC's capacity to address
issues relating to corporate distress. Finally. European Union financed ASEM funds are
proposed to be used to finance diagnostic audits of the three major government
owned/controlled banks.
B. Loan Objectives
98.   The purpose of the proposed loan is to support a medium-term reform program to
strengthen the banking system and enable it to better withstand current difficulties and
future shocks. The major elements of this program are to:
- Improve on an ongoing basis the incentives for supervisors, bank owners, and the
market to strengthen the framework for prudent banking;
*  Enhance the framework and the authorities' preparedness for early intervention and
resolution of troubled banks:
*  Strengthen PNB towards the standards maintained by the top tier banks in the
country, and
*  Reduce the incentives for regulatory and tax arbitrage across financial institutions and
between the peso and foreign currencies.
99.   The proposed loan would provide balance of payments support to the Philippines
when the country's access to private capital has been sharply reduced. Hence it would
Is The Bank's February 1998 mission also provided TA in the areas of contractual savings, housing
finance, and capital market development.



-24-
support the authorities objectives to build international reserves. reduce the pressure on
domestic resources to finance the budget deficit. and enhance market confidence in the
banking reform program.
C. Loan Description, Conditions and Tranching
100.  A fast disbursing floating rate single currency loan (SCL) in US dollars in the
amount of $300 million is proposed. to be disbursed in three equal tranches as described
below. The loan would have a repayment period of 20 years with a 5 year grace period.
The Bank's standard grace period. amortization terms and interest rate for floating rate
US dollar SCL loans with an expected disbursement period of less than three years will
apply. Cofinancing possibilities with Japan's EXIM Bank has been explored at the
request of the Philippine authorities.
101. Loan Conditions, Timing and Tranching. The Letter of Development Policy
(Annex 1) was signed by the Philippine authorities on October 29. 1998. Release
conditions of the subsequent two tranches are provided in Schedule 3 of the Loan
Agreement.  The Policy Matrix (Annex 2-also  finalized on October 29. 1998)
categorizes the actions by the major objectives of the loan, and sequences these according
to a feasible tranching arrangement; the explanatory notes to the matrix provide further
specificity to the actions expected. The 17 actions/agreements that are conditions for
Board presentation are provided in Annex 2 and have been satisfied, the selection of a
financial advisory firm for PNB. is a condition for loan effectiveness. Annex 3 provides
a draft terms of reference for the selection and functions of the financial advisory firm,
which is to advise the Government on the audit. action plan. and transfer of management
and control of PNB to a strategic private investor.
102.  The conditions for release of the second tranche are as follows:
(a)    BSP shall have put into effect rules satisfactory to the Bank requiring: (i) external
auditors to be placed under affirmative obligation to inform BSP of factors that materially
affect the soundness of a financial institution. and (ii) the accreditation of external
auditors engaged by banks.
(b)   BSP shall have. in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, supervised seven banking
organizations on a consolidated basis and shall have evaluated prudential norms on the
risks of the entire banking organization.
(c)    BSP shall have: (i) completed supplementary on-site examinations for 51 banks in
accordance with its program of intensified monitoring of institutions at risk; and (ii)
imposed appropriate corrective actions.
(d)   BSP shall have developed and put into effect, satisfactory to the Bank: (i)
guidelines for corrective actions by banks corresponding to their degree of capital
deficiency; (ii) guidelines for intervening and resolving insolvent and near-insolvent
banks, and (iii) a contingency plan to handle systemic crises.



-25-
(e)   The Borrower shall have adopted an action plan satisfactory to the Bank to
promote strategic private investment in PNB. including: (i) an in-depth audit of PNB by
external auditors, with qualifications. experience. terms of reference and selection
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and (ii) development and implementation of a course
of actions for the strengthening of PNB's financial performance consistent with the
findings of the above-mentioned audit.
(f)   The Borrower shall have adopted an action plan satisfactory to the Bank to protect
BSP and PDIC staff from lawsuits brought against them in connection with actions taken
in their official capacities.
103.  The conditions for the release of the third tranche are as follows:
(a)   BSP shall have put into effect disclosure requirements. satisfactory to the Bank.
for listed and non-listed banks.
(b)    BSP shall have, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. supervised an additional 10
banking organizations on a consolidated basis and shall have evaluated prudential norms
on the risks of the entire banking organization.
(c)   The Borrower shall have adopted bidding rules satisfactory to the Bank for the
selection of a strategic private investor to transfer management and control of PNB.
(d)   The Borrower shall have carried out the action plan referred to in paragraph 102
(f) above in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(e)   The Borrower shall have adopted a regulatory framework for the banking system,
satisfactory to the Bank that shall. inter alia: (i) limit legal challenges to bank closings
ordered by the Monetary Board and provide that only money damages will be available in
such cases; (ii) authorize BSP to suspend and remove bank directors, officers and
employees who have violated banking laws from any further involvement in any bank;
(iii) increase monetary penalties imposed by BSP and PDIC for banking law violations by
a factor of at least 10; (iv) allow bank examinations at the discretion of the BSP
Governor. Deputy Governor (SES) or Managing Director (SES); (v) give PDIC the
authority to dispose of a bank's assets immediately upon its closing by the Monetary
Board; (vi) put a bank under receivership if its capital to risk assets ratio falls below 2%;
and (vii) allow up to 100 percent foreign ownership of distressed domestic banks.
104.  Release of any tranche would in addition be subject to maintenance of a sound
macroeconomic framework, consistent with the objectives of the Program.
105.  The proposed tranching design is linked to the loan requirements and the
Congressional timetable. For example, the speed with which the financial advisor can
prepare an information memorandum for strategic private investment in PNB will depend
on the nature of the audit/due diligence findings. And this timing will depend on the
nature of prior actions within PNB that are needed. The speed with which the new



-26-
Congress can consider and enact the banking legislative agenda is also difficult to predict.
The loan contains a number of policy actions, which cannot be implemented prior to
Board presentation but need not wait till management control of PNB has been
transferred or legislation is fully enacted.  Including an intermediate tranche for
disbursement when these are completed hence provides an appropriate means for the
Bank to monitor the reform progress.
D. Loan Administration
106.  Disbursement and Procurement. The Government will open and maintain a
deposit account with the BSP. Upon effectiveness and prior to each subsequent tranche,
the Government will submit a simplified withdrawal application to the Bank. against
which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into the deposit account. Disbursements
will not be linked to specific purchases, and supporting evidence for disbursements is
therefore not required. The proceeds of the Loan will not be used to finance expenditures
for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement.
107.  Accounts and Audit. BSP. on behalf of the Government, will maintain the
accounts for this loan in accordance with sound auditing practices. The accounts under
the program will be audited by an independent auditor within four months of Bank
request; receipt of a satisfactory audit report of the prior tranche would be a condition of
subsequent tranche releases. The loan Closing Date will be June 30. 2000.
108.  Monitoring Arrangement. DOF and BSP will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation program with the help of the Letter of Development Policy. Schedule 3
of the Loan Agreement. and the performance indicators agreed upon at negotiations.
109.  Environmental Assessment Requirements.  In accordance with the Bank's
Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00. Annex A), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category 'C" and will not require an environmental
assessment.
E. Benefits and Risks
110.  Benefits.  Strengthening the banking system under current circumstances is
among the more important priorities for the Philippine authorities, and indeed will remain
essential over the medium term. Even assuming a rapid return to normalcy within the
region. the banking system would benefit from the enhanced prudential framework
envisaged under the reform program. in order for it to exercise the appropriate degree of
restraint in intermediating large private capital flows in the future. By associating the
Bank with policy advice and financing in the area of banking, confidence in the economic
policy of the incoming government can be increased, particularly if the reform program is
seen to be proactive and can demonstrate visible results.
111.  Risks. The Philippine economy remains vulnerable to a deterioration in the
regional environment which would further pressure financial markets and a fragile



-27-
external position. Even without unanticipated macroeconomic deterioration, the banking
system faces continuing risks from the environment of slower growth, tighter credit, peso
depreciation and weaker real estate prices that has strained corporate balance sheets.
Available data indicate the banking system is not at risk of imminent crisis, although a
number of banks are likely to fall short of capital adequacy requirements if the burden of
nonperforming loans grows. And banks remain subject to sudden deposit withdrawals
that can render segments of the banking system more vulnerable.
112.  While the economic and banking risks cannot be downplayed, our judgment is
that by engaging the authorities in an ongoing dialogue, the Bank can both strengthen the
banking reform program and enhance investor confidence in the program, thereby
improving its prospects of succeeding. The alternative of not responding to the request
for assistance for financial sector reforms would add to the risks facing the Philippine
economy.
V. RECOMMENDATION
113.  1 am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
November 4, 1998
Annexes



ANNEX 1
Page I of 14
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
October 29, 1998
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H St. N.W.
Washington D.C.
Subject: Proposed Banking System Reform Loan
I. Background
1.    Prior to the regional economic crisis, the Philippine economy had made
impressive progress, reflecting the implementation of prudent macroeconomic policies
and sound structural reforms, as well as a favorable external environment. By 1996, real
GNP growth had accelerated to about 7 percent. led by exports and investment, inflation
had fallen to well within single digits; and the external position had strengthened with
rapid export growth, increasing reserves, and a steady reduction of the debt burden.
2.    Particularly since the floating of the Thai baht in July 1997, financial markets
have come under severe pressure. Economic and financial policies were adjusted to
manage these pressures and contain their impact on the real economy. In particular, the
peso was allowed to float more freely. accompanied by a tightening of fiscal and
monetary policies, while we have moved forward with our structural reform agenda
notwithstanding the difficult economic environment.
3.    Our efforts, which were supported by an extension and augmentation of the
Philippines' extended arrangement with the IMF in July 1997, met with initial success.
In particular, economic growth held up well in 1997 (real GNP grew by 5.3 percent),
export growth accelerated to 23 percent, inflation was maintained below target, the
consolidated public sector deficit (CPSD) was limited to 1.4 percent of GNP, and the
adverse impact of financial market volatility on banks, corporations and social welfare
was well contained relative to experiences elsewhere in the region.
4.    Economic performance and the short-term outlook have however deteriorated
with the deepening of the regional crisis, deterioration of the global outlook and
environment for private capital flows to developing countries, and adverse effects of the
"EI Nino" induced drought on agriculture. While export growth during the first half of
1998 remained relatively robust at 19 percent and the current account position adjusted
rapidly to the changing domestic and international environrment, real GNP growth in the



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 14
first half slowed to 0.6 percent, inflation has increased to about 10 percent, and
unemployment has risen. While stress within the corporate and financial system has
increased, the Philippines has thus far avoided the systemic banking and corporate
problems experienced elsewhere in the region, notwithstanding comparable declines in
the exchange rate and equity prices. Nevertheless, as the environment for banking has
deteriorated, access to credit for small enterprises and the informal sector has been
reduced. While the priority is to manage the present crisis effectively and restore
confidence as soon as possible. we also recognize that recent financial market turbulence
has exposed certain vulnerabilities within the economy, particularly in the financial
sector. Our goal is to contain these risks through an economic program that involves
prudent macroeconomic management; bolstering our pro-active strategy to strengthen the
banking sector; and pursuing other complementary reforms as described below.
5.    Beyond the immediate concerns of crisis management. economic policies are
being focused to address the remaining barriers to sustained growth and poverty
reduction. Key medium-term requirements in this respect are to raise domestic saving.
strengthen the financial system. reduce external vulnerability, and ensure fiscal
sustainability. In order to support our economic program, we reached a two-year
precautionary stand-by arrangement with the IMF. which was approved by the IMF
Board on March 27. 1998. Furthermore, at the request of the Philippine authorities, the
IMF Board is due to consider activation of the program on October 30, 1998.
II. The Economic Program for 1998-99
6.    Our main priority is to sustain economic growth. limit the adverse effects of the
crisis on the most vulnerable groups of the population. and provide for an early, strong,
and lasting recovery. We are aiming at real GDP growth of about I percent in 1998,
followed by a recovery to around 3.5 percent in 1999 and averaging over 5 percent
thereafter. Given the volatile regional situation, we have formulated policies to deal with
the contingency of possibly weaker economic activity and to prevent a slide of the
economy into recession. Other key program targets are to limit average inflation to about
9.5 percent in 1998 (based on the 1988 CPI basket). 8 percent in 1999, and 5-6 percent in
subsequent years: reduce the current account deficit to 1.5 percent of GNP in 1998 and
0.7 percent in 1999. and to increase reserve cover to 2.8 months of imports by 1999. Our
polices are centered on sustained fiscal and monetary prudence, further banking sector
reforms, continuation of trade and investment liberalization, and a deepening of other
structural reforms, including medium-term fiscal and corporate sector reforms.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 14
Fiscal, Monetary and External Policies
7.    The fiscal program accommodates the effects of the weaker economy on revenues
and allows for somewhat higher expenditures for well-targeted social spending. At the
same time, it incorporates measures to prevent an unduly large deficit and to ensure
medium-term fiscal sustainability. For 1998 as a whole. we are now targeting a national
government (NG) deficit of P40 billion. For 1999. the draft NG budget submitted to
Congress targets a deficit of P18 billion. Should growth be weaker than we currently
expect, a somewhat higher deficit could result from the working of automatic stabilizers.
We are, however. committed to limiting the underlying CPSD to P82 billion (2.9 percent
of GNP) in 1998 and P64 billion (2.0 percent of GNP) in 1999.
8.   Despite the adverse impact of higher inflation and interest payments, expenditures
have been kept broadly on track in nominal terms. To control expenditures. we have
sustained the across-the-board sequestration of all non-wage expenditures of agencies. as
well as the other measures effected during the first half of the year. However. to mitigate
the adverse impact of the slowing economy on the most vulnerable groups, the
sequestration of the most socially sensitive expenditures for basic education. nutrition,
welfare and public health programs have been rescinded. Moreover, in collaboration with
the World Bank, we are conducting a thorough evaluation of our social expenditures, and
in the context of a proposed Social Investment Loan from the Bank. we intend to re-orient
budget expenditures towards well-targeted social expenditures.
9.    Revenues this year have been lower than programmed due to deterioration in the
economic environment and delays in implementing  some measures.   Hence
implementation of the action plan to strengthen tax administration, drawn up in
collaboration with the IMF. which focuses on large tax payers and an audit plan to
improve tax compliance is of the utmost importance. A comprehensive rationalization of
tax incentives together with the introduction of new user fees on a range of services will
be effective for 1999. Finally. restructuring and privatization of the National Power
Corporation is also high on the legislative agenda.
10.   Monetary policy will continue to focus on limiting inflation and containing
downward pressure on the peso. The twelve-month rate of broad money (M3) growth is
projected to remain at around 17 percent through end-1999, though this target will be
modified as appropriate. Our interest rate policy will remain flexible to counter renewed
exchange market pressures if necessary as in early August 1998 when the BSP raised its
overnight interest rates by 5 percentage points, which subsequently have been partially
reversed. To reduce bank intermediation costs, we have reduced reserve requirements on
peso deposits on two occasions in 1998 while at the same time avoiding undesired
liquidity expansion. The more recent increase in reserve requirements in October 1998,
which was needed to mop up undesired liquidity arising from banks' cautious lending
policy, was accompanied by an increase in the interest rate paid by BSP on banks' reserve
balances in order to limit the impact on bank intermediation costs.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 14
11.   While the current account has adjusted rapidly. narrowing to near balance during
the first half of the year, the capital account remains under pressure and spreads for bond
issues in international markets have recently become prohibitive for many developing
countries. To help finance the budget in a noninflationary manner, the Government has
therefore arranged for a $610 million Foreign Currency Deposit Unit (FCDU) loan from
domestic banks, which we intend to repay as additional program financing from the Japan
EXIM bank, the World Bank and Asian Development Bank materializes. We intend to
return to international financial markets with planned bond issues as soon as market
conditions turn more favorable.
III. The Banking System Reform Program
12.   We recognize the need to strengthen the banking system through a comprehensive
reform program that will enable the system to better withstand current difficulties,
strengthen its resiliency to future shocks and confront with confidence the challenges that
lie ahead. It is in this context that we are requesting support from the World Bank for a
Banking System Reform Loan. Complementing this operation, we have initiated work
with the Bank on the recently approved financial sector technical assistance program
(Japan PHRD grant), which will provide technical assistance to the BSP. Philippine
Deposit Insurance Corporation (PDIC) and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
And as described in Section IV, we will continue to strengthen other aspects of the
financial system and corporate governance in consultation with the World Bank and other
multilateral institutions.
13.   There are five main elements to our banking reform strategy. First, we are
strengthening our prudential and supervisory systems. reshaping incentives of bank
owners to encourage prudent banking practices and exposing bankers to greater market
discipline. Second. our bank resolution strategy is geared to the twin objectives of
dealing expeditiously with problem banks while safeguarding the soundness of the
banking system. Third. we have initiated a process within the nation's second largest
bank to enhance governance and efficiency and strengthen financial performance on a
sustainable basis. inter alia. through acquisition of management and control by a strategic
private investor. Fourth. we are taking measures to reduce peso intermediation costs and
to reduce disparities between intermediation in different currencies and regulatory
treatment across different institutions. Finally, we are preparing legislation to Congress
that will improve the legal and regulatory framework for banking by allowing bank
supervisors and regulators to perform their duties in a less constrained manner than is
currently feasible and by strengthening the Government's ability to address further
shocks.
14.   Underlying our banking reform program is a vision for the medium term that bank
owners, buttressed by higher capital and stricter provisioning requirements and subjected
to more stringent scrutiny from supervisors and market participants, will be more
discriminating in intermediating financial flows particularly as they involve foreign
currency. major term transformation, or lending to volatile sectors such as real estate.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 14
While the reform program is comprehensive in design. it is also pragmatic in that the
timing and sequencing of proposed measures has been structured so as not to undermine
prospects for economic recovery. Efforts are also underway to counteract the weakened
access to credit within agriculture and small and medium enterprises (SMEs) since the
onset of the regional crisis.
15.   An essential complement to such a vision is the parallel development of the
broader financial system in order to encourage equity finance and longer-term debt
instruments and avoid over-reliance on the banking system and external finance. In this
regard, there is considerable scope for expanding the pool of contractual savings and
transforming these into more efficient vehicles for capital market development and
domestic long-term savings mobilization.
A. Strengthening the Prudential Framework
16.   To maintain the fundamental health of the banking system. we are fully
committed to accelerating ongoing efforts to improve our prudential and supervisory
systems.  This involves a medium-term  program  to raise capital. impose more
conservative accounting standards and provisioning requirements, enhance transparency
through tougher disclosure requirements. and improve the focus and timeliness of
supervisory oversight and redirect its efforts towards areas of potential systemic risk.
(i) Prudential Standards
17.   The BSP took a number of measures to strengthen the prudential framework
during 1997, including: imposing limits on real estate lending in April; a phased increase
in capital requirements for banks in October, tighter standards for past-due loans in
October (effective as of April 1998); requiring a 2 percent general loan loss provision in
October (to be phased over a three-year period beginning October 1998); and extending
foreign currency exposure limits applicable to banks to include holdings of affiliated
subsidiary foreign exchange operations.
18.   In March 1998. we announced a series of further measures that will improve the
system's capacity to withstand shocks and transform provisioning rules towards
international norms. These measures included: a schedule to raise minimum capital
requirements through December 2000 that is expected to encourage further consolidation
within the banking industry (Annex 4): accelerated implementation of the general loan
loss provision to bring forward the end level of 2 percent to October 1, 1999, with
intermediate levels retained at 1 percent by October 1, 1998 and 1.5 percent by April 1,
1999; and the announcement of specific loan loss provisions for loans classified as
.substandard-secured" and "special mention" to 25 percent and 5 percent, respectively by
April 15. 1999. with intermediate requirements by end 1998 of 12.5 percent and 2.5
percent. These measures will be complemented by extending the 10 percent capital
adequacy requirement to universal banks previously exempted to take effect by end 1998.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 14
19.   Stricter qualification and competency criteria for new licenses have been put in
place as of July 1998. At the same time, it is recognized that unrestricted ownership of
domestic financial institutions by major multinational banks could be an important means
of resolving bank failures, bringing new capital, technology and managerial expertise into
the system, and enhancing competition. Hence, we intend that qualified foreign banks be
allowed full ownership of troubled domestic banks for a period of five years.
20.   To enhance transparency and market discipline. the BSP issued Circular 157
(effective from December 1998) obligating listed banks to disclose and discuss publicly
more detailed information on a quarterly basis, including information relating to the level
of non-performing loans, classified assets, and loan loss reserves (both specific and
general). We recognize that additional disclosure requirements are desirable to further
enhance transparency; yet the timing of the additional requirements will need to be
calibrated in order not to unsettle financial markets during a period of stress. We will
therefore agree with the World Bank on a schedule for implementing further disclosure
requirements for listed and non-listed banks, and on the form, manner and frequency of
such disclosures. The additional disclosure requirements are expected to include the
following: an individual bank's credit rating; capital ratio; large concentrations of credit
to specific sectors; aggregate exposure to directors. officers, shareholders and their related
interests; asset and liability management practices; information on foreign currency assets
and liabilities; interest rate sensitivity; and liquidity. In addition, commercial banks will
be required to make public statements about whether they are fully complying with
prudential rules and whether the internal risk control is adequate. BSP has issued a
circular pertaining to mark-to-market trading and equity portfolios and mark-to-market
accounting procedures conforming to international norms which became effective in
September 1998. Finally. we intend to improve the quality of audits of financial
institutions by placing external auditors under an affirmative obligation to inform BSP of
factors that materially affect the soundness of a financial institution and by implementing
a system of BSP accreditation of external auditors that may be hired by banks and quasi-
banks.
21.   We have developed formal policies with respect to concentrations of credit or
investment in borrowers or borrower groups associated with a bank's owners. During the
transition toward consolidated supervision. all equity investments in affiliates and
nonfinancial firms where the bank is the majority or controlling owner are to be deducted
from bank capital in assessing a bank's capital adequacy, given the concern noted with
respect to the quality of capital.
(ii) Supervisory Effectiveness
22.   The Monetary Board's role in the supervisory process is to be redefined to focus
on the definition of broad policy goals and strategies and on improvement of BSP's legal
and prudential standards, rather than on direct involvement in day-to-day supervisory
operations. The Monetary Board also intends to better align the use of supervisory



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 14
resources with systemic concerns by developing a hierarchy-of-risk model that
establishes priority for the allocation of resources.
23.   Regulatory oversight has been strengthened by a shift away from a check-list
driven type of examination to a more analytical approach. which focuses on an
assessment of the consolidated risk management practices of each bank and its affiliates.
A revised "risk based" report of examination has been introduced and replaces the
unnecessarily detailed examination report currently in use.  Hence the examination
process will be reoriented to assess risk and the systems used by a bank to manage risk,
including liquidity, interest rate. foreign exchange risks, and risks accruing from
derivatives and other off-balance sheet activities.
24.   All examination activities will focus on the consolidated banking group. so that
no significant activity is permitted to escape supervision and the application of sound
prudential rules and requirements. Staff training will facilitate a change from a largely
mechanistic use of CAMEL and SLIM ratings to a more judgmental use, in order to more
accurately portray the condition of a bank.
25.   Greater flexibility will be permitted in the scheduling of examinations and
examination activities so that resources can be employed in areas of greatest risk and
follow-up corrective action can be taken in a timely manner. The BSP will use its special
examination authority to define new types of examinations (e.g., visitations, targeted
examinations, etc.) to schedule examinations more frequently in banks exhibiting high-
risk characteristics. In addition, we are preparing legislation for Congress that will
eliminate the current restrictions on BSP's authority to examine banks, so that it may
schedule and conduct examinations at its own discretion whenever it determines the need
to do so.
26.   Another priority is to improve the timeliness of examination findings. Hence
examination reports will be submitted to banks on a more timely basis, facilitated by
eliminating the vast amount of detail in the reports, and by introducing computers into the
examination process. All examination reports will be discussed directly with the bank's
board of directors in the case of troubled banks. Communications will be improved by
prioritizing the examination report's presentation of issues and criticisms so that bank
management and its board of directors can readily understand the relative importance of
the various findings.
27.   To strengthen off-site monitoring, the data collected through prudential reporting
will be presented in a comprehensive manner and logical format that provides an
improved basis for analysis. Monitoring activities will focus not only on individual
banks, but also on systemic concerns such as the potential impact posed by
conglomerates and major shareholders, industry concentrations, new instruments, and
dependence on volatile sources of funding. To the extent allowed by law, the data
collected will be made accessible and shared between BSP and PDIC to eliminate



ANNEX 1
Page 8 ofl4
duplication, increase supervisory efficiency, and reduce the burden placed on banks to the
extent provided for under existing legislation.
B. Early Intervention and Resolution Strategy
28.   We recognize that the underlying capitalization of the Philippine banking system
has been weakened by macroeconomic events since mid-1997. And the uncertain
regional situation implies the need for vigilance in monitoring potentially distressed
institutions and enacting corrective actions. The BSP has therefore initiated a strategy for
identifying and dealing with the potential problem of insolvent or near-insolvent banks.
as outlined below. Although this strategy will be strengthened by the enactment of new
legislation (Section E below), much can be done within the existing legislative
framework, and this is now being implemented.
(i) A crash-program of intensified monitoring of selected banks
29.   The first element of the BSP^s strategy is an accelerated program of intensified
monitoring. A preliminary list of potential problem banks has been drawn up by the BSP
with a view to conducting a special program of supplementary on-site inspections. This
list is now being augmented through use of additional early warning indicators (including
rapid growth in loan volumes or in reported past dues; concentration of lending in volatile
economic sectors; large securities holdings not marked to market; exposure to foreign
currency borrowings; deterioration in access to or cost of interbank or other deposit
funds). Thus forward-looking as well as backward-looking indicators of stress are being
employed.
30.   The list is being arranged in order, with priority given to the institutions which are
perceived as potentially posing the greatest systemic risks placed at the top. A revised
and augmented list will be kept under regular review. The World Bank will continue to
be informed on a periodic basis of the number of institutions on the list, the size range of
each institution in order, and the sum of banking assets of the concerned banks.
31.   The Monetary Board has given a blanket approval for supplementary on-site
inspections of commercial banks, thrift or rural banks that are or may be placed on the list
by the BSP. thereby effectively over-riding the normal arrangement whereby inspections
have been limited to once-a-year and allowing the BSP to move preemptively.
32.   These special inspections are being conducted by special elite monitoring teams.
Their focus is on a forward-looking and conservative assessment emphasizing asset
quality as well as liquidity pressures. Particular attention is being paid to the potential
need for provisioning in respect of loans that, though current, have been extended, and to
liquidity risks associated with foreign borrowings.



ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 14
33.   The main preliminary findings of each inspection will be reported to the Monetary
Board within one week from the end of the on-site inspection with the full report
available as soon as possible. The special inspection of at least the first two of these
inspections has been completed and corrective action has been proposed. Commencing
August 1, 1998 and every two months thereafter, a further three banks will have been
inspected, and corrective action recommended.
(ii) Explicit procedures and rules establishing a graduated response to capital
shortfalls
34.   As the second element in our early intervention and resolution strategy, we are
formalizing the rules to deal with any capital deficiencies that are uncovered.  In
September 1998, we issued a Circular (No. 176) that provides for a matrix of sanctions
according to the degree of capital deficiency, with sanctions differentiated by capital
deficiencies ranging from up to 20 percent to more than 80 percent-including, for the
latter. the issuance by the authorities of a "cease and desist" order, which allows the
Monetary Board to prevent the institution from doing business in the Philippines and
designate the PDIC as receiver.
35.   We recognize that Circular 176 needs to be complemented by a matrix of steps in
the area of corrective action to be issued shortly by the BSP. Such a matrix will clarify to
the banks the mandatory and discretionary actions they would face as the capital
adequacy ratio falls below the mandated level. An important objective of the corrective
actions would be to initiate earlier intervention in failing banks to minimize public losses
and facilitate options other than liquidation.
36.   We intend to seek a market-based approach to resolution where possible, in order
to minimize the drain on public resources. Nevertheless, we stand ready to propose
emergency legislation and institutional arrangements to make available adequate budget
resources to deal with the failure of a large bank or widespread distress in smaller
institutions if such distress were to constitute a threat to the health and stability of the
financial system.
37.   In order to be better prepared for the eventuality, however remote, that problems
could arise simultaneously at a large number of banks, the BSP has drafted contingency
plans for the resolution of systemic problems. We recognize the need to update these
plans as needed, obtain feedback from the DOF and PDIC. and will continue to consult
the World Bank in this exercise. In this regard, we recognize that dealing with the
liquidity, management and ownership issues efficiently in such a circumstance will
require an integrated approach and close cooperation between government agencies.
C.    Strengthening Government-Owned/Controlled Banks
38.   An essential element of our banking reform program is to strengthen PNB on a
sustainable basis. We are convinced that the most effective means of attaining this



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 14
objective is to seek a strategic private investor that will have the ability and incentive to
raise and maintain PNB's competitiveness. loan portfolio and capital adequacy up to the
top tier of banking industry standards. The Government has therefore initiated a process
to transfer management and control of PNB to a strategic private investor.  It is
recognized that given PNB's status as the second largest bank in the country. only
respected foreign and local banks will be included among those invited to bid for strategic
ownership.
39.   To ensure that this process is conducted according to international best practice.
we will contract the services of a reputable financial advisory firm to advise the
Department of Finance (DOF) on all aspects of the sale (financial advisor terms of
reference are contained in Annex 3). To expedite preparation by the financial advisor of
the information memorandum, the Government will provide the financial advisor all
existing information about the condition of the bank. BSP's special inspection of PNB
will also be updated by mid-November 1998 (using information as of September 30.
1998) for this purpose. and to ensure that regulatory oversight of PNB continues to
proceed on the basis of up-to-date information. In addition, it is expected that the
financial advisor will need to conduct or commission a thorough audit of PNB in order to
prepare the requisite information memorandum. The terms of reference for such an audit
will be made satisfactory to the World Bank. The Government will work with PNB's
new management and Board to fully cooperate with the financial advisor to realize our
objective of selling government shares to a respected private investor through a
transparent and internationally accepted bidding process satisfactory to the World Bank.
40.   We further recognize the importance of maintaining strong standards of
governance over the government owned banks. In the context of proposed financial
intermediation loans from the World Bank to the Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP) and the Land Bank of the Philippines (LB). which address our objective of
maintaining credit access to SMEs. we intend to commission audits based on
international best practices of DBP and LB. and to implement the recommendations
arising from these audits.
D.    Reducing Regulatory Arbitrage and Intermediation Costs
41.   We are fully aware of the potential for distortions in the financial system arising
out of costly regulations and certain aspects of taxation. In addition, the differentiated
treatment of foreign currency and peso deposits, and of thrifts and commercial banks, has
led to a degree of regulatory arbitrage. Recent and ongoing reforms in prudential
supervision practice being implemented should reduce the prudential risks associated
with such arbitrage. but reduction of the underlying distortion is also desirable.
42.   We have therefore lowered reserve requirements while containing unintended
liquidity side-effects. Through two stages in March and May 1998, reserve requirements
on commercial banks were reduced from 13 to 8 percent, and reserve requirements for



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 14
demand deposits, NOW accounts and deposit substitute liabilities in thrift and rural banks
were also reduced to 8 percent. Compensating increases in liquidity reserves were
enforced in March 1998. Reserve requirements were raised in October (to 10 percent for
commercial banks) to help stabilize the foreign exchange market. However. to minimize
pressure on domestic interest rates. the interest rate paid by the BSP on 40 percent of the
banks' balances with the BSP was commensurately raised to 4.5 percent from 4 percent.
43.   To further reduce differences in tax treatment between peso and foreign currency
intermediation, foreign currency deposits of residents were made subject to a 7.5 percent
withholding tax on interest income as of January 1998. Furthermore, the liquid asset
cover requirement on foreign currency assets was raised to 30 percent in June 1998 (taken
primarily as a prudential measure). These measures have already reduced the share of
foreign currency intermediation. If the latter were to resume growth at an unsustainable
pace. the BSP stands ready to take further measures.
44.   We intend to allow tax relief to be claimed by banks on specific loan loss
provisions to encourage better reserving practice leading to sounder bank management
decisions. Legislation to this effect has been prepared. but since this measure would
involve a significant initial cash flow cost to the budget. its implementation is being
deferred. As part of a medium-term reform of the taxation of financial institutions, we
intend to phase out the gross receipts tax (GRT) and documentary stamp tax (DST) on
financial transactions, which would likely be replaced by a VAT-like charge based on
each bank's profits and salaries. The new charge would be at a rate calculated to be
broadly revenue neutral and would be applied to thrift and rural banks in addition to
commercial banks. Prior to implementation we however intend to study alternative
proposals to ensure that overall revenue is not sacrificed and efficiency is enhanced.
E.    Legislative and Regulatory Agenda
45.   The Government's legislative and regulatory agenda with respect to the banking
sector has three main objectives: first. to protect employees of the BSP and the PDIC
from suits arising out of their official conduct as well as to strengthen the ability of the
BSP to close insolvent banks, second. to enhance the supervisory and enforcement
powers of the BSP and the PDIC; and third. to augment the legal authority of the BSP to
close insolvent banks and the PDIC to resolve closed banks promptly.
46.   Our first objective is to protect employees of the BSP and PDIC from litigation
arising from the performance of their responsibilities. It is essential that BSP and PDIC
officials have the ability to perform their jobs, including the supervision of banks, and,
when necessary. the ability to close insolvent banks, without the constant threat of
litigation. As a first measure. we will propose legislation that banks seeking emergency
loans reimburse the BSP for any losses incurred by the central bank from lawsuits
contesting the appointment of a conservator or receiver in the event that the bank is
eventually closed. We will in addition cooperate with the World Bank in conducting a



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 14
review to determine whether and to what extent additional measures are needed to fulfill
our objective of providing adequate legal protection to the Monetary Board and BSP and
PDIC personnel from institutions that they regulate. Upon completion of this review by
January 31, 1999, we will discuss the review's findings with the World Bank and agree
with the Bank on the nature and timing of measures that may be needed to fulfill the
above objective, including, if appropriate, additional legislation.
47.   Our second objective is to enhance the supervisory and enforcement powers of the
BSP and PDIC. We will do this in a number of ways. including legislative initiatives to
substantially increase the civil and criminal penalties for violating the banking laws and
to remove directors and officers who violate the law. and broadening the grounds on
which a receiver may be appointed. New legislation has also been proposed to authorize
examinations of banks as needed, without pre-approval by the Monetary Board.
48.   We recognize the need to allow bank examiners to have access on a routine but
strictly confidential basis to the identities of individual depositors to better assess the
stability of deposit sources, to determine the resources available for loan servicing, to
trace loan proceeds and compliance with legal lending limits, to combat money
laundering, and to expedite deposit payoffs in the event of bank failure. In view of the
current financial market volatility. however, we have adopted a phased approach to
attaining this objective. Thus BSP issued a circular in August 1998 clarifying the
conditions under which directors, officers and stockholders will be required to waive their
secrecy rights as provided under current law. Furthermore, we intend to address anti-
money laundering concerns in cooperation with international efforts.
49.   Our third objective is to augment the legal authority of the BSP to close insolvent
banks and the legal authority of the PDIC to resolve closed banks promptly.  To
supplement the regulatory measures described in paragraphs 34 and 35, we are proposing
legislation to place banks under receivership if their capital to risk assets ratio falls below
2 percent. BSP and the PDIC will also adopt a new policy statement to spell out the rules
for open bank assistance so that this process is significantly more transparent. We
recognize that rehabilitative efforts involving existing owners should be exercised before
a bank is closed. However. once closed. PDIC requires the flexibility to resolve the
failure promptly in a manner that minimizes government losses and enables depositors to
gain prompter access to their insured deposits. thus enhancing confidence in the ability of
the authorities to manage the financial system. Therefore, we are expediting the process
through which PDIC can dispose of assets once a bank has been closed by the Monetary
Board to conserve assets of the bank under receivership, including proposing legislation
that allows PDIC to clean a failed bank's balance sheet once it is placed under
receivership. to facilitate its eventual sale or merger. PDIC may, but will not be obliged
to entertain rehabilitation proposals from existing owners after a bank has been placed
under receivership. Finally. also we will propose legislative action, which will allow
foreign banks to purchase 100 percent of the ownership of troubled Philippine banks (to
be reduced to 85 percent in five years and 70 percent in ten years), which will have an
additional benefit of increasing the number of potential bidders for failing banks.



ANNEX I
Page 13 of 14
IV. Complementary Reforms Within the Financial and Corporate
Sectors
50.   While strengthening the banking system is of the utmost priority, we recognize
that complementary reforms are needed to enhance the capacity to resolve corporate
financial difficulties and bankruptcies, encourage capital market development. and
increase domestic saving and the efficiency of its allocation.
51.   To prepare an appropriate response strategy to increased corporate stress, we have
initiated a broad-based assessment of the health of the corporate sector. A special unit in
the BSP's Supervision Department has been established to assess the credit and exchange
risk of the 100 largest borrowers, and an initial credit analysis of these borrowers will be
completed by December 1998. A proposed Securities Act of 1998 addresses issues
relating to registration, information disclosure, insider trading, anti-fraud provision and
prudential regulation. We recognize that additional reforms are needed to make the SEC
an effective regulatory body. especially in its role of arbitrator in corporate debt
restructuring disputes, and given its authority to suspend debt payments of financially
distressed firms. In this context. we have requested the Bank to assist the SEC to develop
new policies and procedures for rehabilitating or liquidating distressed firms, and we will
provide the necessary resources to ensure that the SEC can carry out its duties effectively.
52.   Over the medium term. the legal framework governing bankruptcy regulation also
needs to be strengthened in a comprehensive manner. It is therefore our intention to
prepare a new bankruptcy law, in collaboration with the World Bank, which will
incorporate the best features of existing legislation in Europe and North America. In this
context, we will consider transferring SEC's current responsibilities for supervising
suspension of payments to the judicial system. thereby enabling the SEC to focus on
regulatory matters and enforcement of prudential standards.
53.   We recognize that developing a mature capital market that can effectively
intermediate longer-term savings and investment is essential for reducing excessive
dependence on foreign capital and the banking system. We will therefore analyze means
of promoting capital market development, inter alia. by leveling the playing field in terms
of taxation across financing instruments and encouraging the development of credible
credit rating agencies. As part of its Capital Market Development Program Loan, the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) has proposed a comprehensive set of reform measures
to further develop equity and debt markets, for which we are in continuing dialogue with
the ADB.
54.   Relatedly. and in consultation with the World Bank, we are examining the scope
for reforms within the contractual savings system and housing finance whose objectives
include: promoting long-term savings by strengthening private and public pension plans,



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 14
life insurance agencies and pre-need plans; developing a more equitable, efficient and
affordable retirement income system; reforming housing finance policies to promote a
more market-oriented and self-sustaining housing finance system: and reducing
government contingent liabilities associated with housing finance and contractual savings
institutions.
Signed
Gabriel C. Singson                         Edgardo B. Espiritu
Governor                                   Secretary of Finance
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas                Department of Finance



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
Policy Matrix-Objectives and Sequencing of Actions
Action                                     Before Board date     Second tranche           Tlhird Tranche
Prudential Framework      A Increase capital                         Timetable announced
B Ensure conservative valuations          General and specific
loan loss provisioning
schedule announced
C Tighter restrictions on bank licensing  Adopted
D Disclosure and mark-to-market           Circulars issued                               Circular issued
E Extend responsibility of auditors       Objectives agreed      Regulation issued
F New supervision methodologies           Objectives and action
plan agreed and
implemented
G Consolidated supervision                Objectives agreed      Seven banks supervised   Ten additional banks
on consolidated basis    supervised on
l ________________________                                                                                           consolidated   basis
Early Intervention and    H Intensified monitoring                   Action plan agreed     Supplementary on-site
Resolution                                                                                  inspections com pieted
for 51 banks
I Early Intervention and resolution       Circular issued        Circular issued
Contingency plan
developed
Strategic Private         J Actions complementary to strategic       BSP inspection initiated  Audit completed.     Satisfactory progress
Investment in PNB         investment                                                        Action plan initiated   on action plan
K Transfer of management and control to   Objective announced    Due diligence, valuation   Satisfactory bidding
strategic private investor                 Financial advisory firn   process, information  rules adopted for
appointed-Condition   memorandum completed  management/control
of Effectiveness                               transfer
Regulatory Arbitrage &    L Reduce intermediation costs              Implemented
Intermediation Costs      M Reduce incentives for dollarization      Objectives agreed
Legislative Changes       N Enhance protection for supervisors                              Action plan agreed      Action plan
implemented
O Limit appeals by bank owners            Objectives agreed                              Implemented
P Increase supervisory authority of       Objectives agreed                              Implemented
BSP/PDIC
Q Failure resolution                      Objectives agreed                              Implemented
R Additional receivership criterion       Objectives agreed                              Implemented
S Liberalize foreign bank entry           Objectives agreed                              Implemented



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
Summary Notes on Proposed Policy Actions
Prudential Framework
A     Increase capital
Increases in minimum capital requirements announced in March 1998 to become effective as of
December 1998 (Annex 4 provides schedule and extent of capital increases). Compliance with
existing capital adequacy standards is enforced. Exemptions to the 10 percent capital adequacy
requirement. which have been in effect for a small number of universal banks, are phased out by
end 1998.
B     Ensure conservative assessments of bank capital
In March 1998. the schedule for meeting general loan loss provisions, first introduced in October
1997, was accelerated. and a new schedule for adding specific loan loss provisions effective from
December 1998 was announced (Annex 4).
C     Tighter restrictions on bcank licensing
BSP issued a circular on July 13. 1998 putting into effect tighter licensing restrictions as described
in Annex 4.
D     Disclosu -e and mark-to-mnarket
Through Circular 157. listed commercial banks will be obliged to disclose as of December 1998
information on a quarterly basis relating to: NPLs; classified loans and other risk assets; general
and specific loan-loss reserves. BSP will agree with the World Bank on a schedule for
implementing additional disclosure requirements for listed and non-listed banks, and on the
form, manner and frequency of such disclosures. The additional disclosure requirements are
expected to include the following: the individual bank's credit rating; its capital ratio; large
concentrations of credit to specific sectors; aggregate exposure to directors, officers, shareholders
and their related interests; asset and liability management practices including dependence on
foreign currency assets and liabilities; interest rate sensitivity; and liquidity. One or more
circulars will be passed. satisfactory to the World Bank, which would elaborate to what extent
the above items would be required to be disclosed by banks prior to the third tranche. In
addition, banks will be required to make public statements about whether they are fully
complying with prudential rules and whether the internal risk control is adequate. Regulation
pertaining to mark-to-market trading and equity portfolios was issued in March 1998 (Circular
No. 161) and became effective as of end-September 1998.
E     Extend r esponsibility of auditors
External auditors will be placed under an affirmative obligation to inform BSP of factors that
materially affect the soundness of a financial institution. Failure to comply by the auditor will
result in loss of BSP accreditation; the process of BSP accreditation of auditors is being
developed.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
F.    New supervisory methodologies
Implement a broader qualitative assessment of banks, using a forward looking approach and
prioritizing the issues and criticisms made. The supervision methodology will also emphasize
issues other than portfolio quality, such as risk management capacity, funding vulnerabilities
(especially rollover risk for foreign exchange liabilities) etc.. as well as a review of the processes
and systems that contributed to asset quality. Increase supervisory resources in banks and factors
that pose systemic risks. Strengthen off-site procedures. Training program for BSP/PDIC staff
initiated.
G     Consolidated supervision
Implement supervision of banking organizations on a consolidated basis in accord with the core
principles of the Basle Committee on Banking Supervision.
Early Intervention and Resolution of Problem Banks
H     Intensified monitoring
A priority list of problem banks on the basis of early warning indicators has been prepared.
Special. critical. forward-looking on-site inspections of these banks to arrive at realistic
valuations of their capitalization in the current environment are being conducted. Completion of
inspection reports are being speeded up.
I     Eariy intervention and resolution
Circular 176. issued in September 1998. provides for a matrix of sanctions according to the
degree of capital deficiency. An additional circular will be issued, satisfactory to the World
Bank. that clarifies to the banks the mandatory and discretionary corrective actions they would
face depending on the degree of capital deficiency. Establish high-level committee to develop
and maintain a contingency plan for a "worst-case scenario".
Strategic Private Investment in Philippine National Bank
J     Actions complemnentawy to stractegic investment
BSP will update its November 1997 inspection of PNB by mid-November 1998 based on
September 1998 data in order to monitor its financial condition, agree with PNB management on
the actions and timetable needed for strengthening financial performance, and provide up-to-date
information to the financial advisory firm (see item K). The advisory firm will conduct or
commission an audit of PNB; the terms of reference for such an audit should be satisfactory to
the World Bank. An action plan drawn up by the advisory firm will indicate the different steps
to be implemented by PNB management in order to strengthen the financial performance of PNB
and arrive at a successful transfer of government shares to a strategic private investor.
K     Transfer of management and control to strategic private investor
The Government has announced its intention to sell its shares in PNB to a strategic private
investor, implying the need to appoint an internationally recognized financial advisory firm
(Annex 3 provides terms of reference for this appointment) and permitting the firm to have
access to pertinent information relating to PNB in order to prepare an adequate information



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
memorandum. The advisory firm will hence require access to existing and updated BSP
inspection reports of PNB and existing recent audits of PNB. The sale of government shares in
PNB to a strategic private investor will be conducted through a bidding process acceptable to the
Bank.
Reduce Regulatory Arbitrage and Intermediation Costs
L     Reduice interniediation costs
Reserve requirements lowered on two occasions in 1998 (March and May) by a total of five
percentage points to 8%. Liquidity requirements raised in March 1998. Reserve requirements
raised to 10% in October 1998. but interest paid on reserves held by banks increased.
M     Redutce incentives for dollaria cion
Liquid asset requirement on foreign currency intermediation increased to 30% in June 1998 and
cost of peso reserve requirements lowered. Withholding tax on foreign currency interest for
residents enacted. Adopt additional measures if needed, to avoid unsustainable increases in the
share of foreign currency intermediation.
Legislative Changes
N     Enhance protection for supervisors
Based upon a forthcoming review, adopt additional measures (if needed) to the satisfaction of the
World Bank to provide adequate protection from civil lawsuits for members of the Monetary
Board and BSP/PDIC staff in connection with actions carried out in their official capacity.
Agreement on the content and timing of an action plan (if needed) to be agreed by second
tranche; legislative changes would be implemented (if needed) by third tranche.
0     Limit appeals bh hatnk ow ners
Enactment of pertinent legislation to: (a) condition emergency assistance from the BSP on an
indemnity from the assisted bank to prevent lawsuits in connection with the appointment of a
conservator or receiver: and (b) provide that only money damages will be available to parties
challenging the closure of banks, so that equitable relief. such as re-opening the bank, will not be
possible.
P     Increase supervisory authority of BSP/PDIC
Enactment of pertinent legislation to:
(i) Give BSP the power to suspend and remove bank directors, officers and employees that have
violated banking laws from any further involvement in any bank;
(ii) Increase monetary penalties imposed by BSP and PDIC for banking law violations by a
factor of at least 10;
(iii) Add new conditions in Section 30 to provide that banks may be closed if: they declare a
holiday; or they remain open but do not pay depositors.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
(iv) Allow bank exams at the discretion of the BSP Governor. Deputy Governor (SES) or
Managing Director (SES).
Q     Failure resolution
Enactment of legislation that enhances the powers of PDIC to dispose of assets of a bank as soon
as it is placed in receivership by the Monetary Board.
R     Additional receivership criter-ion
Enactment of legislation to place banks under receivership if their capital to risk assets ratio falls
below 2 percent.
S     Liberalize foreign bank entry
Enactment of legislation to allow 100 percent foreign ownership of troubled domestic banks for a
period of five years.
October 29, 1998



Annex 3
Page 1 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
1. INTRODUCTION
The Department of Finance (DOF) of the Republic of the Philippines on behalf of the
Government of the Philippines invites sealed bids from internationally experienced firms
and companies receiving these Terms of Reference to act as Financial Advisor to the
Government of the Philippines for the sale of a strategic stake in Philippine National
Bank (PNB) along with management control to a strategic investor (or a group acting as
single strategic investor). The Financial Advisor, especially qualified in the banking
sector, will be responsible for performing all activities leading to the sale of a strategic
stake and the transfer of management control to a strategic investor. The activities of the
Financial Advisor will involve a detailed review of the present operations of PNB making
recommendations on what percentage of shares should form a strategic stake,
identification of additional business opportunities, study of the banking sector of the
Philippines, financial valuations, structuring and promotion of the proposed sale,
negotiation and execution of the transaction and appropriate post-sale activities. The bids
are required to cover the complete set of activities described under the scope of work of
these Terms of Reference along with any additional work that the Advisor believes is
necessary to ensure that the overall objectives of the DOF for the sale of a strategic stake
in PNB are met. The successful Financial Advisor will also be required to address and
close all legal and commercial issues of the transaction.
While the DOF would like to complete the privatisation process of PNB in an expeditious
manner it does not intend to compromise on any of its key objectives. The DOF would
therefore be paying particular emphasis on the structural, marketing and implementation
strategies and project management approach of the bidders to demonstrate their ability to
understand the scope of work, scheduling of activities and maximum allocation of
appropriate resources.
During the performance of its work, the Financial Advisor will be expected to interface
with the various departments of the Government of the Philippines including the
Department of Finance (DOF), Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), and Department of
Justice (DOJ).



Annex 3
Page 2 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
2. SELECTION OF THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR
The selection of the Financial Advisor will be based on a transparent and competitive
bidding process for which the bidders are required to submit sealed bids in compliance
with these Terms of Reference (date to be confirmed).
The selection will be made according to the following procedures:
The bids shall be comprised of two parts: The Technical Element and the Financial
Element. The Technical Element of the proposal shall contain the Firm's Experience
(30% of Total), the detailed workplan (20%), proposed team structure (40%) and
proposed set of deliverables (10%). Given the importance of the technical aspects of this
transaction and the role that is expected of the Financial Advisors, the Technical Element
shall account for 80% of the total markings. Price will only account for 20% of the
markings. Only those proposals scoring overall 80% points in the Technical Element will
be considered. Out of those firms scoring over this level the lowest priced proposal shall
become the benchmark against which the rest shall be measured. The lowest price shall
be calculated as a result of adding the total success fee (retainer to be credited towards
the success fee) plus the total reimbursable expenses.
The selected bidders are required to make a presentation to the DOF at the own expense.
Presentation timing is to be confirmed. After the presentations are complete, evaluations
will be performed on the basis of the proposals and presentations.
3. PRIVATISATION OBJECTIVES
As a result of the sale of the Government's stake in PNB, the DOF is seeking the fulfillment
of the following objectives:
* To sell an equity stake and management control of PNB to a strategic investor that
will bring the needed banking expertise, management, integrity, technology and
capital.
* Value enhancement
* Maximise proceeds from the sale of Government shares in the PNB.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
* To attract new capital.
*  To promote capital formation and banking sector development within the national
economy.
*  Improve Governance and public interest
*  Improve operational efficiency and overall performance of PNB without additional
resources from the Government of the Philippines.
*  To mobilise investment funds both from domestic and foreign markets.
*  Long term growth and expansion of the Bank.
*  To upgrade staff skill through research and training.
*  To upgrade and improve quality of services and infrastructure.
4. SCOPE OF WORK
In order to achieve the objectives of the DOF, the Financial Advisor appointed will take
complete responsibility for all activities required for a successful sale of a strategic stake
in PNB along with transfer of management control to a strategic investor. This section is
designed to identify some of the activities that the DOF believes need to be mentioned
here and should not in any way be construed as the total activities required under any
contract resulting from these Terms of Reference. The bidders are required to provide a
proposal that is not only compliant to the requirements of this section but also
demonstrates the bidder's understanding of the overall scope of work.
The DOF expects the privatisation process to be an interactive one (i.e. regular interaction
between the Financial Advisor, PNB and various departments of the Government) to
enable efficient implementation of the assignment. The Financial Advisor will be
expected to study the financial markets in the Philippines and that of comparable
countries in order to draw implications of the privatisation of PNB to assist the



Annex 3
Page 4 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
Government of the Philippines in better understanding the issues and enabling it to make
quick and correct decisions. The Financial Advisor is also expected to interact with the
BSP as well as other regulatory bodies in order to design a sale strategy which will
comply with the regulations applicable to PNB as well as other measures, such as
capitalisation and portfolio provisioning programmes, that are to be undertaken by the
winning bidder in order to insure the financial viability of the Bank and the rest of the
Banking system of the Philippines.
The Financial Advisor will be required to provide and update the DOF with progress
reports as reasonably requested by the DOF. The Financial Advisor will also be required
to provide details of all assumptions/reasoning/valuations used to arrive at specific
recommendations (all such material should be provided not only in hard copies but on
computer diskettes on any IBM - PC compatible software). The Financial Advisor will be
required to complete coordination and monitoring of all work related to this assignment.
The Financial Advisor should make its bids in compliance with the scope of work
provided below in steps along with any additional requirements that are felt to be
necessary in performing the obligations to meet the objectives of the transaction.
4.1 Review of Existing Operations / Due Diligence
4.1.1    General
*  Study and evaluate the organisational, managerial and operational structure of
PNB
*  Review and update work done to date.
*  Review and update financial, fiscal, legal and legislative requirements.
*  Assessment and design of a plan for the improvement of the performance and
compliance with regulatory requirements by PNB's domestic and
international branches and affiliates.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
The Financial Adviser will commission a long form IAS Audit to an
internationally renowned audit firm. Terms of reference for the Audit will be
cleared with the World Bank.
4.1.2 Operational and Financial
* Review and assess in detail the books and related documentation and
procedures.
IDOF will arrange through PNB to give full and timely access to all
information required by the Financial Adviser including but not limited to
BSP inspection reports, SGV audits and special studies conducted for the
Management of PNB.
* Identify core and non-core business and its impact on the P & L account.
* Identify product lines and spreads.
4.1.3 Organisational
*  Assessment and Recommendations for restructuring the Head Office
*  Assessment and Recommendations for restructuring the Branch network
*  Evaluate personnel skills
*  Recommendations for employee related issues
4.1.4 Business Development
* Identification of new business lines and products.
* Assessment and design of a plan for the improvement of operational and
marketing aspects of PNB's domestic and international network of branches
and affiliates.



Annex 3
Page 6 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
4.2   Legal Amendments
The Financial Adviser shall advise whether the legal status needs to be changed and
accordingly engage in related work. He will employ a legal advisor for the privatization
process.
4.3 Valuation Process
Conduct a detailed evaluation of PNB's operations to assess its value based on historic
performance, future earning potential and goodwill. The valuation process should also
extend to conduct the following:
4.3.1  Financial Valuation
Conduct a financial valuation of the company using techniques, such as the discounted
cash flow technique and earnings multiple.
4.3.2   Assessment of PNB's Portfolio
Evaluate the loan portfolio of the company, quality of the assets,
provisioning and recoverables.
4.3.3   Asset Valuation
Provide a valuation of the company based on the market value of its assets.
4.3.4   Assessment of Capital Adequacy
Evaluate the capital adequacy of the company. This should include an examination of
PNB's assets in order to develop a capitalisation program to be undertaken by the
winning bidder. This capitalisation program is to be agreed upon with the BSP Special
attention shall be paid to:



Annex 3
Page 7 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
* Adequate liquidity requirements
* Adequate capital structure
* Portfolio provisioning levels
4.4 Action Plan
On the basis of the Due Diligence and the Valuation Process the Financial Advisor will draw
up an Action Plan. The Action Plan will indicate the different steps to arrive at a successful
privatization and to be implemented by the Management. The Financial Advisor will work
closely with the DOF in developing and implementing a promotional strategy for the sale of
a strategic stake in PNB as well as conducting the appropriate marketing.
4.5 Preparation of Information / Documentation
This should incorporate a detailed history of PNB including historic financial information.
industry study with comparative analysis, regulatory environment, opportunities and
competitive edge for PNB.
Preparation of complete documentation including information memorandum, legal
documentation bidding documents. evaluation criteria for bidders, sale agreements, etc.
4.6 Final Sale Process
4.6.1  Pre-qualification criteria for bidders
A detailed pre-qualification criteria will be prepared by the Financial Advisor in
coordination with the DOF to develop a short-list of potential investors. Criteria
should include: experience in managing banks of comparable size and willingness
to invest new capital.



Annex 3
Page 8 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
4.6.2   Competitive Bidding Process
The Financial Advisor will render full assistance to the DOF to evaluate buyer
bids leading to the selection of the strategic investor. He will ensure that a
competitive bidding process with the prospective buyers is conducted and that the
best sale price for the strategic stake in PNB is realised.
4.6.3  Sale of a strategic stake of shares
The Financial Advisor will assist the DOF in structuring the sale of strategic
shareholding in PNB and timely closure of the transaction and negotiation. The
closure documentation will include sale and purchase agreements and is to
incorporate strategic investor's financial commitments, future business plans
along with any other obligations.
4.6.4  Transfer of Management Control
The Financial Advisor will assist the DOF in implementing the transfer of
management control to the strategic investor along with preparation of the
necessary documentation.
4.7 Post Privatisation Support
The Financial Advisor should identify any possible issues from their experience in
other privatisations that may arise once the sale process is complete and the
management control has been handed over to the strategic investor. The Financial
Advisor will be expected to assist the DOF for providing any related support post
privatisation of PNB.



Annex 3
Page 9 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
5. SCHEDULE OF ASSIGNMENT (TIMING)
The DOF would like to achieve the sale of strategic shareholding in PNB with the transfer of
management control to a strategic investor as soon as possible after the date of actual award
of the mandate i.e. signing of the contract.
It is, however, the goal of the DOF to achieve this objective without sacrificing the quality of
work required for completion of this assignment which is expected from the Financial
Advisor of repute who will be appointed for this task.
6. PROJECT MANAGEMENT / COORDINATION
In order to meet the schedule. the bidders are required to provide a detailed project
management schedule clearly identifying all the activities and their completion dates along
with a list of the key people (e.g.. team leaders) involved in those activities. It is expected
that the Financial Adviser will perform maximum number of activities in parallel, by
deploying several teams, so as to facilitate timely completion of the project.
An important aspect of the project management schedule would be to identify various targets
that will need to be reviewed with the senior executives of the Government agencies involved
in this transaction.
The Financial Advisor will bid either independently or in a consortium and will be
completely responsible for all legal. accounting, technical, media, marketing and labor
relation matters. Collaboration of reputable local companies should be strongly considered.
In addition, the bidder must demonstrate that appropriate expertise has been assigned to
address media and labor relation issues possibly by engaging local expertise.
7. PROGRESS REVIEW / REPORTING
The Financial Advisor will be required to review its progress according to the project
management schedule / critical time path with the DOF every week as well as prepare a
report every two (2) weeks for the DOF summarising progress to-date and outlining the
critical issues. In addition, the Advisor will be expected to co-ordinate and attend meetings



Annex 3
Page 10 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
with the DOF and all concerned governmental agencies and others as and when required.
This procedure is to be adopted to streamline hurdles before actually facing them and for
obtaining timely decisions from the respective Government agencies.
8. REMUNERATION
The Financial Advisor will be remunerated on the basis of a combined compensation
consisting of a retainer, which will be paid upon completion of certain tasks which is to
be credited towards the success fee. The success fee will be calculated as a percentage of
the deemed sale price (the actual proceeds received by the government as a result of the
sale).
The Financial Advisor will be reimbursed for the expenses actually incurred. Items to be
included under the heading of reimbursable expenses are only those directly associated
with the performance of the services. These expenses are to be capped to a total fixed
amount. Reimbursement of expenses will be made on the basis of actuals and without any
administrative charge.
Breakdown of the out of pocket expense to be submitted (i.e. travel, communications,
valuations, legal. technical. etc.). In the event of DOF not proceeding with the
privatisation transaction the Financial Advisor will be entitled to claim only the
reimbursement of any expenditure related to the advisory work for the sale of strategic
shareholding in PNB actually incurred. The Advisor will be required to submit original
receipts / vouchers for actual expenses incurred along with any other details which will
form the basis for reimbursement.
Payments made to other subcontractors or members of the bidding consortium of FA
shall be clearly indicated and shall be considered fees.
In case an additional audit. special legal work or other activities have to be performed the
fees should be detailed and separately mentioned.



Annex 3
Page 11 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
9. EXCLUSION AND PROHIBITION
The Financial Advisor will be prohibited from participation as a underwriter in any public
offering of PNB shares, and from any involvement on buyers side in any private placement of
PNB's securities. This prohibition shall last for a period of two (2) years after the completion
of this assignment.
10. CONFIDENTIALITY PROVISION
The Financial Advisor will be prohibited from divulging the results of any of its findings
without the authorization of the DOF, except to PNB Executive Management and Board,
BSP management involved with regulating PNB, and World Bank staff overseeing the
Banking System Reform Loan.
11. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR
Proposal should include the following information:
1. A brief description of the firm and an outline of its experience. (The information
on privatisation projects undertaken by your firm should follow the format given
in Form - A)
II.   Any comments or suggestions of the financial advisor on the scope of work, and a
description of the manner in which the financial advisor would plan to execute the work.
III. The composition of the team of personnel which the Financial Advisor would propose
and the tasks which would be assigned to each team member.
IV. Curricula Vitae of the individual members of the Financial Advisor team to be assigned
to the work and of the chief management contact in the home office (the curricula vitae
should follow the format given in Form-B).
V. Estimate of the total time effort that would be provided for the services, supported by bar
chart diagrams showing the person-months for each member of the consultant team.



Annex 3
Page 12 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
VI. The consultant's comments, if any, on the data, services and facilities to be provided.
12. DELIVERABLES
The bidder will provide details of the deliverables for the project. All documentation will be
delivered in magnetic form (floppy disks) as well as hard copies.



Annex 3
Page 13 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
FORM-A
FORMAT FOR INFORMATION ON PRIVATIZATION PROJECTS
UNDERTAKEN BY YOUR FIRM DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS
The following information should be provided for each reference project in the format indicated
below:
Firm's Name:
Project Name:
Country:
Professional Staff provided:
a) No. of staff and
b) No. of person-months:
Project details:
a) Name of Client:
b) Start and Completion Dates (month/year):
c) Approximate Value of Services:
d) Name of Associated Firm, if any:
e) No. of person-months of professional staff provided by associated firm:
f) Senior Staff involved and functions involved:
Narrative Description of Project and Services Provided:



Annex 3
Page 14 of 14
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FINANCIAL ADVISOR FOR PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(DRAFT)
Name, Designation, Address including Telex or Fax number of responsible Client's staff to
whom reference may be made:
FORM-B
FORMAT FOR CURRICULUM VITAE
Name                                      Profession                        Years
with firm                         Nationality                             Proposed
position on Team
Key Qualifications: (Under this heading, give outline of staff members' experience and training
most pertinent to assigned work on proposed team. Describe degree of responsibility held by
staff member on relevant previous assignments and give dates and location. Use up to half page).
Education: (Under this heading, summarise college/university and other specialised education
of staff member, giving names of schools, dates attended and degree obtained. Use up to quarter
page).
Experience: (Under this heading, list all positions held by staff since graduation, giving dates,
names of employing organisation, title of positions held and location of assignments).
Language:  (Indicate proficiency in speaking, reading and writing of each language by
"excellent", "good", "fair", or "poor").
Signature of Staff Member                             Date



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
RECENT MEASURES TAKEN OR ANNOUNCED TO STRENGTHEN THE
BANKING SYSTEM
1.    All banks are required to raise their minimum capitalization in a three-step
process ending on December 31, 2000. The decision regarding the first stage was
announced on October 1, 1997, while the decision regarding the latter two stages was
announced in March 1998.
Minimum Capitalization
Stage                       1                2                    3
Date on which effective   Dec. 24, 1998  Dec. 31, 1999      Dec. 31, 2000
Million Pesos  Further increase by  Additional increase by
Universal Banks           4,500             10%                  10%
Commercial Banks          2,000             20%                 20%
Thrifts
Metro Manila              250             30%                  30%
Others                    40              30%                  30%
Rural banks                2-5              30%                 30%
2.    A general loan loss provision was introduced on October 1, 1997. This required
banks to provision for 1% by October 1, 1998; 1.5% by April 1, 1999 and 2% by October
1, 2000. In March 1998, the loan loss provision of 2% was accelerated by one year and
brought forward to October 1, 1999.
3.    Specific loan loss provisions were also announced in March 1998. The
provisioning requirement will be on a staggered basis as follows:
Specific Loan Loss Provisions
Date on which effective     Dec. 31, 1998      April 15, 1999
Especially mentioned loans      2.5%                5%
Substandard loans              12.5%               25%
(Collateralized)
4.    New statutory reserve and liquidity reserve requirements became effective on
March 31, 1998. For commercial banks the statutory reserves requirements were brought
down from 13% to 10 % while the liquidity requirements were raised from 4% to 7%.
Effective from May 29, 1998, commercial bank reserve requirements were further
lowered to 8%, and the interest earning portion of bank reserves was raised from 25% to
40%.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
5.    A Circular on "Basic Guidelines in Establishing Banks" dated July 13, 1998
specified: minimum capital requirements consistent with the targeted levels as of end-
2000; that a minimum of 25% of the total authorized capital stock be subscribed by the
subscribers of the proposed bank, and at least 25% of such subscription be paid-up; limits
on cross-holdings with other corporations; stricter qualifications for directors and officers
of the bank; and stricter requirements for the issuance of authority to operate.
6.    A Circular (157) was issued in March 1998, to take effect as of December 1998,
requiring all banks listed in the Philippine Stock Exchange to disclose the following
information on a quarterly basis:
* Amount of nonperforming loans and ratio to total loan portfolio
* Amount of classified loans and other risk assets
* General loan-loss reserve
* Specific loan-loss reserve
A separate Circular (161) issued in March 1998, to take effect from September 1998,
provides regulation specifying mark-to-market rules for trading and equity portfolios.
7.    In April 1998, the Monetary Board decided to adopt the principle of consolidated
supervision of banks and quasi-banks including their subsidiaries and affiliates engaged
in allied activities, within the context of existing banking laws.
8.    In July 1997, the BSP introduced stricter limits on banks' net open foreign
exchange positions. Specifically, the limit on banks' overbought foreign exchange
position was reduced from 20 percent to 5 percent while the oversold limit was raised
from 10 percent to 20 percent. From October 8, 1997 only forward contracts which are
delivered are allowed in computing banks' foreign exchange position.
9.    In June 1997, the objective of improving the maturity profile of banks' foreign
currency asset structure was announced: since December 1997, banks have had to
maintain a 15 percent foreign exchange liquid asset requirement on their FCDU holdings;
this ratio was raised to 30 percent in June 1998.
10.   In April 1997, the BSP adopted two measures to tighten regulations on real estate
lending by banks: it lowered the ceiling on an individual bank's exposure to real estate
from 30 to 20 percent of loan portfolio, giving banks one year to comply; and it lowered
the permissible ceiling on the loan-to-value ratio for real estate lending from 70 to 60
percent of the market value of the property.
11.   In April 1998, the Monetary Board adopted the principle of consolidated
supervision of banks and quasi-banks including their subsidiaries and affiliates engaged
in allied activities.



ANNEX 5
page I of 6
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators, 1993-99
1993       1994       1"5         1 199      1997      191b        1999/b
(percentage change)
Growth and Inflation
Real GNP                                      2.1        5.3        55          6.9        5.3         0.1         3.5
Real GDP                                      2.1        4.4        4.8         5 7        5.2        -0.6         3.2
CPI (period average)                          7.6        9.0         8.1        8.4        6.0         10.0        8.0
CPI(endperiod)                                8.4        7.1        10.9        5.2        7.3        10.8         6.1
Unemployment Rate (percent)                     9.3        9.5         9 5        8.6        8.7
(in percent of GNP)
Saving and Investment
National Saving                              18.1       17.6        17.3       18.8       20.2        20.1        20.6
Private                                    13 7        14.5       14.2       14 9        18.2        19.0        18.5
Public                                      4.4         3.1        3.1        3.8         2.0         1.1        2.1
GrossInvestment                              23.6       23.5       21.6        23.3       25.2        21.6        21.3
Private                                    17.9        18.7       17.0       189         21.8        17.6        17.2
Public                                      5 7        4.8         4.6        4.4         3.4         4.0        4.1
Public Sector
National Govemment
TaxRevenue                                 15.3       15.6        15.8       16.1       16.1        15.1        15.9
Investment                                  2.5        1.9        2.7         2.5        3 1         2.3         2.2
Balance /c                                 -1.5        0.9        0.6         0.3       -0.1        -1.7        -1.0
Consolidated Public Sector Balance           -2.2       -2.3        -1.4       -0.6       -1.4        -2.9        -2.0
Public Debt                                 127.4      1094        110.8       95.0       79.4        83.9
National Govemment Debt                      84 6       70 9       66.7        59.6       55.1        61.2        64.4
(end-year percentage change)
Money and Credit
M3                                           246        265        25.3        15.8       20.9        17.0        170
Credit to Private Sector                     376        28.2       43.5        51.0       28.7         13.4       10.0
Commercial Bank Loans                        32.2       25 4       35.8        51.9       26 5
Balance of Payments
(end-year percentage change: $ value)
Merchandise Exports                          15.8       18.5       29.4        17,7       22.8        13.2        14.8
Merchandise Imports                          21.2       21.2       23.7        20.8       14.0        -7 7         8.8
(in percent of GNP)
TradeDeficit                                 112        11.9        11.7       13.0        129         7.3         5.1
Current Account                              -5.5       -4.5        -4.3       -4.5        -5 0        -1.5       -0.7
International Reserves
Gross Official Reserves($billion)Id           5.9        7.1        7.8        11.7        8.8        10.5        12.5
(inmonthsofimports)                         3.1         3.1        2.6        3.1         2.0         26          2.8
External Debt /e
Total ($ billion)                            34 3       37.1       37.8        41.9       45.4
In percent of GNP                           62.0        56.4       49.6       48.1        52.2
DebtServiceRatio(percent)/f                  23.5       20.2        15.8       12.2       11 5        11.6        12.9
Exchange Rate (Pesos/$, period average)        27.1       26.4        25.7       26.2       29.5
RealEffectiveExchangeRate(1990=100)fg         110.4      117.3       120.3      129.8       128.7
Sources: GOP: IMF. WB staff estimates.
a. Estimate.
b. IMF program.
c. Excluding central bank restructuring.
d. Including gold.
e. Extemal debt reported by BSP
f. Before rescheduling. as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
g. Increase indicates appreciation.



ANNEX 5
page 2 of 6
Table 2: Balance of Payments, 1992-98
(in millions of US$)
1992      1993      1994       1995      1996       1997      1998
Projected
Trade balance                        -4,695     -6,222     -7,850    -8,944   -11,342    -11,127    -4,985
(%ofGNP)                               (8.7)    (11.2)    (11.9)    (11.7)    (13.0)      (12.9)     (7.3)
Exports (fob)                       9,824     11,375    13,483     17,447    20,543    25,228    29,678
Imports (fob)                      14,519     17,597    21,333    26,391     31,885    36,355    37,500
Services (net)                        3,020      2,507     3,964     4,765      6,839     5,744      5,296
Receipts                            7,443      7,497    10,550     14,374    19,006    22,835    23,689
o/w Remittances/Private transfers  3,485     3,956      5,824     8,696    10,169     11,748    11,596
Payments                            4,423     4,990      6,586     9,609     12,167    17,091     18,393
o/w Interest                       1,703     1,513      1,579     2,179     2,167      2,519     3,185
Transfers (net)                         817       699        936       882        589     1,080       335
Current Account Balance                -858    -3,016    -2,950    -3,297    -3,914    -4,303    -2,191
(% of GNP)                             (1.6)     (5.5)     (4.5)      (4.3)     (4.5)      (5.0)     (3.1)
Foreign investment (net)                737       812      1,558      1,609     1,168       766        -14
Direct Invesment                     675        864      1,289     1,361     1,338      1,117     1,088
Portfolio Investment                  62        -52       269       248       -170       -351    -1,102
MLT borrowing (net)                     666      2,105     1,313      1,276     2,690     4,688      2,794
Inflows                             7,436     4,853      4,369     3,927      6,329     7,427      5,598
Outflows                            6,770      2,748     3,056     2,651      3,639     2,739      2,804
Short-term Capital (net)                660      -148      1,002       -56       540        495       570
Change in Commercial Banks' NFA         459      -547        465      1,309     4,211     1,191       750
( - indicates increase)
Errors and Omissions                   -360        84        160      -291       -683    -5,524       -981
Others /a                               188       544        254        81         -5
Changes in net reserves /b           -1,492       166    -1,802       -631    -4,107      3,363       -928
( - indicates increase)
Source: BSP and IMF.
a. Includes monetization of gold, revaluation adjustments and $469 million purchase of collateral in 1992.
b. Includes net credit of IMF.



ANNEX 5
page 3 of 6
Table 3: Selected Interest Rates (%)
BSP
BSP O/N  Interbank   1-month   PHIBOR    91-day         Prime
RRP        O/N        RRP      1-month     T-bill    Lending
(average)  (average)  (average)  (average)  (average)  (average)
Apr-97    10.0       10.1       10.1        9.7       10.1
May-97    14.8        14.8       10.6       11.2       10.9
Jun-97    14.4       14.4       10.6       11.5       10.6
Jul-97    26.0      25.8       15.6       21.4        13.0       24.3
Aug-97    16.0        16.2       13.0       18.8       14.3       22.6
Sep-97    12.0       15.8       14.5       18.1       16.0       22.2
Oct-97    12.1       34.2       15.5       26.0       17.7       25.4
Nov-97    12.0        16.0       15.5       23.4       15.9       24.1
Dec-97    11.4       12.4       15.3       25.9        17.7      23.4
Jan-98    12.2       13.5       16.9       24.1       19.1       24.5
Feb-98    13.2       13.5       16.6       21.1       17.8       23.9
Mar-98    13.0       13.2        16.5       18.7       16.4      20.5
Apr-98    13.0       13.2       15.0       17.8        15.1       17.8
May-98    13.4        13.6       15.1       17.2       14.4       17.0
Jun-98    13.1       13.3       14.8       16.4       14.2       16.6
Jul-98    13.1      13.2        14.7       15.5       14.5       17.2
Aug-98    15.9        16.1       14.6       16.8       14.1       16.7
Sep-98    16.0       16.1       14.6       16.4       13.8       16.3
Oct-98    14.1       14.2       14.5       14.8       13.6       16.3
Source: BSP and Bloomberg



ANNEX 5
page 4 of 6
Table 4: Philippines: External Debt, 1992-1997
(in millions of US $)
March
1992      1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      1998
External Debt
Shortterm                       5,256     5.035     5,197     5.279      7,207     8.439     8.853
o/w Commercial banks          1,422       383      1.156     1,800     3,273     3,658      3.529
Medium and longterm            25,650    29.188    32,387    33,274    34.263    36.105    35,981
o/w Commercial banks            950     1.627     2.133      2.440     3,944     4,507     4.282
Total                          32,089    35.535    38,723    39,367    41,875    45,416    45,662
o/w Commercial banks          2,372     2.010     3.289      4.240     7.217     8,165      7,811
Monitored External Liabilities 1/
Short term                                              .    .              ..     1521     11,853
o/w Commercial banks                                                             6,740      6,529
Medium and long term                    ..        ..             ..         ..   38,321    38,481
o/w Commercial banks                  ..             ..         ..        ..    5,803       5,482
Total                              ..        ..        ..        ..         ..   50,714    51,162
o/w Commercial banks                       ..              ..             ..   12,543    12,011
Source: IMF
1. Monitored external liabilities are defined as external debt plus liabilities of foreign banks in the Philippines
to their headquarters, branches and agencies, some external debt not registered with the central bank,
and private capital lease agreements.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
Table 5:  THE PHILIPPINE BANKING SYSTEM
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
AS OF PERIODS INDICATED
On Billion Pesos)
YEARS - ENDED                                     Match
1991    1  1992    113        1994    119          199     1    7         1998
iaources -                     681.370   798.555  1,001.540 1 1,255.017  1,606.644 1 2,119.690 12,769.936  2,687.820
Commercial Banks -'      i 618.838   720.772   905.391 | 1,123.387i 1,429.711  1,888.34S j 2,509.133  2,428.501
Thrift Banks                 47.044    59.619 1   73.992 i  103.978 1  140.881 1  183.986 1 203.966     202.482
Rural Banks                  15.488    18.164    22.157    27.652    36.052    47.359      56.o37        56.U37 a
loam (Net)                   | 332.281   400.606   552.695   707.446   963.682  1,356.166 I 1,713.634     1,653.355
Commercial Banks         i 293.901   354.355   493.220   625.184   852.628  1,206.614 1 1,538.371     1,484.681
Thrift Banks                 28.083    34.057    44.441    63.667    86.780    118.829 |  135.257       128.468
Rural Banks                  10.297    12.194    15.034    18.5971  24.274    32.723    40.006           40.006 2t
Depos;bt1 425.324   503.102 1 649.254   807.124 1 1,016.647  1,293.331 1 1,674.365                        1,626.915
Commercial Banks            383.175   452.510 1  585.688   726.202 1 904.157 j 1,140.606 i1,502.221   | 1,460.219
Thrift Banks                 33.658 j  40.129 1   50.230    63.475    91.240 I  122.501   135.529       130.081
Rural Banks                   8.491    10.463    13.336    17.447    23.250    30.224 !   36.615         36.6t52
Capital Accounts -               91.651   114.239 1 134.159 j 170.701    226.110   287.496   363.379   I   372.384
Commercial Banks '           83.599   104.078 1  121.729   152.038   201.147   253.710   320.670        329.082
Thrift Banks                  5.378 j   6.952 i   8.537    14.087 1   19.352    26A96%   34.065          34.658
Rural Banks                   2.674     3.209 1   3.a93      4.576 1    5.611     7.290 i   8.644         5 8.644 2
Net Income Before Tax           19.16S    19.820    19.810    25.524    33.322    45.173    46.023          13.762
Commercial Banks            i17.630    17.864 i   17.590 |   22.610 i  29.393    40.729    41.993        13.044 3t
Thrift Banks                  1.205     1.583 !    1.703     2.306 1    3.002    3.205 1    2.875         0.359 3
Rural Banks              I   0.330      0.381 1   0.517      0.608 1   0.927      1.2391    1.155       0.359 4
Ratio of Capital to Reoources (%) -'    13.45  14.31 1    13.40  13.60      14.07    13.561    13.12         13.a5
Commercial Banks '            13.51     14.44      13.44     13.53     14.07      13.44     12.78         13.55
Thrift Banks                  11.43     11.66      11.54 |    13.55 1    13.74    14.40 j    16.70        17.12
Rural Banks                   17.26 i   17.67      17.57     16.55     15.56      15.39 1    15.21        15.21 2t
Ratio of Pas Due oan to                          I                   I
Loan Portfolio                  7.38      6.84 1    5.28      4.71       4.01 i    3.51 1    5.41          8.28
Commercial Banks               6.70      6.13      4.73       3.93      3.23       2.80      4.69          7.58
Thrift Banks                   7.61      7.93       6.02 1    8.36      8.16       7.74 '    10.63        14.09
Rural Banks                   26.33     24.43      21.33     18.17     16.07      14.14     15.37         15.37 zt
Share to total reowrces by industry:i   26.33
Commercial Banks -'      !   90.82      90.26      90.40     89.51     88.99      89.09 1   90.59         90.35
Thrift Banks                   6.91      7,471      7.39      8.29      8.77       8.68 j    7.36          7.53
Rural Banks                    2.27      2.27       2.21      2.20      2.24       2.23 |    2.05          2.12
Totl!  100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00                           100.00
Preliminary
Net of Due fromtto H. O./Branches/Other Agencies account of forei8n banks
For the 9 Month Period Ended September30, 1997
t As of December 31, 1997
For the Quarter-nderd March 30, 1998
For the Quarter-Ended September 30, 1997
NOT£ Data for Commercial Banks includes Specialized covernment Banks
Source: Supervisory Reports and Studies Office(SRSO), Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas



ANNEX 5
page 6 of 6
Table 6. Nonperforming Loans in the Banking System
Total Loan Portfolio                Nonperforming Loans (NPLs)              Ratio of NPLs to Total Loans
(in billion pesos)                      (in billion pesos)                      (in billion pesos)
Commercial Thrift    Rural    Total   Commercial  Thrift    Rural    Total   Commercial  Thrift    Rural        Total
banks    banks    banks                 banks     banks    banks                banks    banks    banks
1996
December    1221.8    122.1       33.4   1377.3        34.2       9.5      4.7     48.4         2.8       7.7      14.1      3.5
1997
March        1284.6    132.6      34.3   1451.5        42.3       9.9      5.1      57.3        3.3       7.4      14.9      3.9
June           1419    145.8      36.9   1601.6        47.9      11.3      5.4      64.5         3.4      7.7      14.6       4.0
September    1498.9      148      39.4   1686.3        59.4      14.9      5.9      80.2        4.0      10.1      15.0      4.8
December    1573.2    139.6       40.8   1753.6        73.7      14.8      6.3      94.9        4.7      10.6      15.4       5.4
1998
March        1524.2    133.3  ...        1698.3        115.6     18.8 ...          140.6         7.6     14.1  ...           8.3
June         1595.4    135.7  ...        1771.9        142.7     22.7  ...         171.7         8.9     16.7  ...           9.7
Source: Bangko Sentral ng Philipinas; and IMF



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
Philippines at a glance                                                                9/15/98
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Asia &   middle-
Philippines    Pacific  income       Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        73 4      1.753     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    1,220       970      1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       89 6      1.707     2,818
Average annual growth, 199t-97
Population (%)                                          2 3        1 3       1 2
Labor force ()                                          2 7        1 4       1 3     GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                capita       <                enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    54
Urban population (% of total population)                 56        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         66        69         69
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 lve births)                 36        38         36
Child malnutrition I% of children under 5)               30        16          -                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   85        84         84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      5        17         19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populabon)    116       115       il1               Philippines
Male                                                            118        116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 ..       116       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            17.2     298        82 8      82.2
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                  32 9     16 0       24 0      24 8
Exports of goods and services/GDP             193      26 3      40.5       49.0                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    269      199        15.2      145
Gross national savings/GDP                    27.7     19.3       193       18.8
Current account balancelGDP                   -6.4      3 2       -4 8      -5 2                         I A  \
Interest payments/GDP                          1 0      3 8        21        2.3     Domestcv
Total debtUGDP                                351      94 5       49 7         .     Savings
Total debt service/exports                    16 9     33 7       14.4
Present value of debt/GDP                        .
Present value of debVexports
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   1.8      3.2      5.7        5.3         .               Philippnes
GNP per capita                      -0 8       1.4      4.5        3.3                         Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        6.0       9.5     154        175          ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           2
Agriculture                                   293      23.9       20 6      18.7      0
Industry                                      35 7     34 6       321       32 2
Manufacturmng                               25.4     24 6       22.8      22 3        v
Services                                      35 1     41.5       47.3      49.2    .2 /    92   93   94   95   99   97
.20
Private consumption                           62.3     72.1       728       72.5    .30
General government consumption                10.8      8.0       11.9      130
Imports of goods and services                 25.2     22.4      49 3       59.4                  GOi          -GDP
(average annual growth)  1976-86  1987-97  1996  1997  Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    1.4      1 8        3 0       3.7    25
Industry                                       0.7      3 1        6.3       6.0    20
Manufacturing                                0 5       3.0       5.6       4 2     IS
Services                                       3.2      3.9        6.5       5.4    is
Private consumption                            2.4      3.7        5.3       3.7 
General govemment consumption                 -0.3      3.9        5 2       0.6     °
Gross domestic investment                     -32       63        15.6       9.2    -5      92   93   94   95   9i   97
Imports of goods and services                  2.1     113        16.7      14.4             -Exorts          0-imports
Gross national product                         1 5      3.8        6.9       5.5
Note. 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1976    1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         20
Consumer prices                               9.2      0.8        8.4      5.1    15
Implicit GDP deflator                         B.3      3.0       7 8       6.0    10
Govemment finance                                                                   5
(% of GDP. includes current grants)                                                 c
Current revenue                                       13.0       18 9                      92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                 1.4                                 -GDP denator  a+CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         .     -5.0       0 3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                  4,842    20,543    25,228     40.000
Coconutoil                                           333       571       673     35000
Sugar                                          .     103        136       83     30.000
Manufactures                                   .   2,672    17,106    21,488     25.000
Total imports (cif)                                  5,044    31,885    36.355     20.00.
Food                                          ..    193       1,578     1,435    15000
Food                             193                        i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000i
Fuel and energy                                .     869      3,008    3,074     59000
Capital goods                                .       839    10,472    14,369         0
Export price index (1995=100)                   .      76        100         -
Import price index (1995=100)                   .       61       101         .                 Exports      Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       .      124        99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mi//ions)                              1976    1986        1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               3,262    7,702    27,627    34,359     0
Imports of goods and services               4,381    5,868    41,371    50.477         91   92   93   94  9S   96   97
Resource balance                           -1,119    1,834   -13.744   -16,118
-2
Net income                                   -253   -1,321     9,202    10,735
Netcurrenttransfers                          268      441        589     1,080     3
Current account balance                    -1.105     954    -3,953    -4,303      4
Financing items (net)                       1,051      184     8,060     7,666    -5
Changes in net reserves                        54   -1,138    -4,107    -3,363    -6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                   .    11,745     8,768
Conversion rate (DEC, localVUSS)              7.4     204        26.2     2985
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        6,039   28,204    41,214
IBRD                                       316    3,017      4,666     4,194
IDA                                         27       92        193       195     Compositignoftotalde-FA6 JV9$ milions)
Total debt service                            571    2.961     5,778         .t 796t9                         c: I405
IBRD                                        35      406        766      636
IDA                                           0        1         3         3                                 D 3,079
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             61      401        246
Official creditors                         212      198       -310
Private creditors                          883      294      1,859         .           F. 12,817            E12095
Foreign direct investment                  132      127      1,408
Portfolio equity                             0        0      1.333
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                226      151        528       60      A - IBRD                     E - Blateral
Disbursements                              102      197        457      305      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        14      170        426      336      C - IMF                      G- Short-term
Net flows                                   88       27         31      -31
Interest payments                           20      238        343      303
Nettransfers                                68    -210        -312     -335
Development Economics                                                                                                9/15/98



