Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4299 PH
Loan Agreement
(Community-Based Resources Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 8, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4299 PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 8, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms wherever used in this 
Agreement have the following meanings:
Page  2
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of Part 
C of the Project, had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected, and “Affected Persons” means collectively all 
persons who qualify as an Affected Person; 
(b)
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Central Bank of the Republic of 
the Philippines, and any successor thereto; 
(c)
“Barangay” means an administrative unit within a municipality; 
(d)
"Central Community-Based Resource Management Office" and "CCBRMO" mean 
the central office to be established and maintained pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) (i) of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and any successor thereto; 
(e)
“DA” means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture and any successor 
thereto;
(f)
"DENR" means the Borrower's Department of Environment and Natural 
Resources, and any successor thereto; 
(g)
“DILG” means the Borrower’s Department of Interior and Local Government, 
and any successor thereto; 
(h)
“DOF” means the Department of Finance, an agency of the Borrower with 
jurisdiction over CCBRMO, MDF and TRC, and any successor thereto; 
(i)
“LGUs” means local government units, political subdivisions of the  
Borrower at the provincial or municipal level; and “LGU” means any such Local 
Government Unit; 
(j)
“Manual of Operations” means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
developed by DOF pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, as such 
Manual may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank; 
(k)
"MDF" means the Municipal Development Fund established under Presidential 
Decree No. 1914 dated March 29, 1984, administered by DOF through the Bureau of Local 
Government Finance, to make financial resources available to local governments for 
duly approved specific projects or activities, and any successor thereto;
(l)
“Memoranda of Agreement” and “MOAs” mean the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01(c) and (d) to this Agreement, to be entered between DOF and DILG , DENR 
and DA, respectively; and “Memorandum of Agreement” and “MOA” mean any such agreement; 
(m)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations; and "NGO" means each of said 
NGOs; 
(n)
“Project Regions” means Regions V, VII, VIII and XIII of the Philippines 
and any other Regions agreed between the Bank and the Borrower from time to time; 
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(p)
“Sponsors” means LGUs that apply for Sub-loans and grants from DOF, to 
carry out Sub-projects in accordance with the procedures of the Manual of Operations 
and the terms and conditions of their respective Sub-project Agreements; and “Sponsor” 
means any such entity; 
(q)
“Sub-loans and grants” means loans and grants made in part from the 
proceeds of the Loan to eligible Sponsors to finance their respective Sub-projects in 
accordance with procedures and criteria established in the Manual of Operations and 
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the relevant Sub-project Agreements; and 
“Sub-loan and grant” means any such loan and grant;
Page  3
(r)
“Sub-projects” means specific development sub-projects approved for 
financing under Part C of the Project in accordance with procedures and criteria 
established in the Manual of Operations and pursuant to the terms and conditions of 
the relevant Sub-project Agreements; and "Sub-project” means any such Sub-project; 
(s)
“Sub-project Agreements” means the agreements referred to in paragraph 4 
to Schedule 6 of this Agreement, to be entered into between DOF and Sponsors in 
respect of Sub-projects to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan; and “Sub-project 
Agreement” means any such Agreement; and 
(t)
“Technical Review Committee” and “TRC” mean the ad hoc committee, to be 
established pursuant to paragraph 1(a)(ii) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty 
million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) for amounts paid (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a 
LGU under a Sub-loan and grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for a Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in dollars in a commercial bank specifically authorized for 
this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollar for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
Page  4
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and December 
15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (i) Part A of the Project through DILG; (ii) Part B.2 of the Project through DENR 
and DA; and (iii) Parts B.1 and C of the Project through DOF, respectively, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, 
environmental, financial and management practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(c)
The Borrower shall, in respect of Part A of the Project, make available 
to DILG the relevant portion of the Loan proceeds under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  To that end, the Borrower shall make such funds available 
to DILG under a MOA to such effect, satisfactory to the Bank, between DOF and DILG.
(d)
The Borrower shall, in respect of Part B.2 of the Project, make available 
to DENR and DA the relevant portions of the Loan proceeds under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  To that end, the Borrower shall make such funds available 
to DENR and DA under MOAs to such effect, satisfactory to the Bank, between DOF and 
DENR and DA, respectively. 
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Memoranda of 
Agreement entered into pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) above, in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Memoranda of Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for: (a) Parts A and B the Project and 
Page  5
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) Part C of the Project 
(regardless of the source of financing), shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the purposes of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after 
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts 
and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank prior to any 
modification to any of the memoranda of agreement referred to in paragraphs (c) and 
Page  6
(d) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, that would materially and adversely affect the 
carrying out of the Project. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
The Borrower shall have established CCBRMO and TRC in accordance with 
paragraphs 1(a)(i) and 1(a)(ii) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, respectively; 
(b)
TRC shall have adopted and put into effect the Manual of Operations in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and  
(c)
DOF shall have executed MOAs with DILG, DENR and DA, satisfactory to the 
Bank, which MOAs shall include the work plans described in paragraphs 8 (a) and 8 (b) 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement covering the period ending December 31, 1998. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Blvd.
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
SECFIN
40268 CB-CONF
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Salvador Enriquez 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava 
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans and grants under  37,000,000
90% of Sub-loans and 
  Part C of the Project
grants
(2)
Civil works under 
  1,500,000
90%
  Part B.2 of the Project
(3)
Goods under Parts A
  1,300,000
100% of foreign
and B of the Project
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory costs) and
80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured
locally
(4)
Consultants' services and
  2,700,000
100%
training under Parts A
and B of the Project
(5)
Incremental Operating costs
   2,100,000
80%
under Parts A and B of 
the Project
(6)
Unallocated
   5,400,000
                                      ________
TOTAL                        50,000,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and  
Page  8
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the operating costs of 
CCBRMO, including costs for office supplies and project staff travel and operating 
costs of equipment and facilities, but excluding salaries. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$ 5,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
Sub-loans and grants; 
(b)
civil works and goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; 
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent or costing less than $50,000 equivalent, respectively; 
(d)
Incremental Operating Costs; and 
(e)
training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in reducing rural poverty 
and environmental degradation in the Project Regions through the provision of support 
for locally-generated and -implemented natural resource management projects.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A:
LGU Institutional Development 
Enhancement of LGUs’ and communities’ capacity to plan, implement and sustain 
priority natural resource management projects through the provision of training by 
DILG’s Local Government Academy and community organizers and the provision of training 
materials, equipment and training fees.
Part B:
Project Management and Environmental Technology Transfer and Policy
Enhancement of the financial management capacity of central government systems 
and of their capacity to transfer environmental technology, and improvement of 
environmental policies implementation through:
1.
Establishment of a rural window in MDF to channel funds to low income LGUs, for 
rural development investments financing, by providing: (a) equipment, (b) consultants’ 
services and training;  and (c) financial support for contracted staff, staff seconded 
from other agencies and the operating costs of the MDF rural window and CCBRMO central 
and satellite offices.
2.
Strengthening of the transfer of natural resources management technology from 
DENR and DA to LGUs, and improvement of management of environmental policies, 
particularly policies of land tenure access and security, by: (a) providing survey and 
mapping for resource access and tenure certificates, technology training, and 
consultants’ services; (b) conducting a policy study to assist DENR and DA in 
developing improved land access and tenure arrangements to enable communities to 
acquire long term leases of upland forestry land; (c) developing and disseminating 
technology packages; and (d) promoting communally owned natural resources.
Part C: 
Sub-projects
Page  9
Carrying out of specific LGU community-based resource management investment 
projects through the provision of loans and grants for the following: 
1.
Upland agriculture.  Improvement of productivity and sustainability of upland 
resources by introducing resource management approaches, including run-off control, 
soil stabilization, soil fertility enhancement and improved fallow management 
techniques. 
2.
Community forestry.  Improvement of forests threatened by logging and slash and 
burn techniques through reforestation, agroforestry, community timber utilization, and 
community protection. 
3.
Coastal resources and nearshore fisheries.  Raising of income levels of people 
dependent on coastal resources and nearshore fisheries by raising output and revenue 
from such coastal resources and fisheries through investments in marine sanctuaries, 
reef management and reforestation and management of mangroves. 
4.
Rural infrastructure.  Improvement of access to rural communities participating 
in activities described in Part C.1 through Part C.3 of this Schedule, including by 
constructing or improving farm to market roads, barangay roads and trails, river 
crossings, potable water supplies and simple post harvest facilities.
5.
Small scale livelihood investments.  Raising of income levels of people 
dependent on upland and coastal resources through investments in small scale 
income-earning activities undertaken in conjunction with resource management 
investments in upland agriculture, community forestry, coastal resources and 
near-shore fisheries.
*********
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
December 15, 2003
1,050,000 
June 15, 2004
1,085,000 
December 15, 2004
1,115,000 
June 15, 2005
1,150,000 
December 15, 2005
1,185,000 
June 15, 2006
1,220,000 
December 15, 206
1,255,000 
June 15, 2007
1,295,000 
December 15, 2007
1,330,000 
June 15, 2008
1,370,000 
December 15, 2008
1,415,000 
June 15, 2009
1,455,000 
December 15, 2009
1,500,000 
June 15, 2010
1,545,000 
December 15, 2010
1,590,000 
June 15, 2011
1,635,000 
December 15, 2011
1,685,000 
June 15, 2012
1,735,000 
December 15, 2012
1,790,000 
June 15, 2013
1,845,000 
December 15, 2013
1,900,000 
June 15, 2014
1,955,000 
December 15, 2014
2,015,000 
June 15, 2015
2,075,000 
December 15, 2015
2,135,000 
June 15, 2016
2,200,000 
December 15, 2016
2,265,000 
Page  10
June 15, 2017
2,335,000 
December 15, 2017
2,405,000 
June 15, 2018
2,465,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Part C: (a) works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and (b) goods estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
3.
Direct Contracting Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,700,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Page  11
Bank's prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded to beneficiary communities 
and NGOs in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, 
provided that the total value of contracts awarded to any one community or NGO under 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not exceed $300,000 equivalent.
4.
National Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works or goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more each, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
Each year, with respect to the first five contracts for works to be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of Part C of this 
Section I and the first five contracts for goods to be procured through national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Part C of this 
Section I, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping or small  
works 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report 
on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, 
shopping or small works procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a 
copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  12
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Any of the following services may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, provided that said contracts cost $20,000 
equivalent or less each up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000, and provided 
that any single NGO may not be awarded contracts exceeding $50,000 equivalent in the 
aggregate: (i)
services provided by NGOs;  (ii)
services for very small 
assignments; or  (iii)
services for assignments in remote areas. 
2.
Individual Consultants Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
Page  13
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $15,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
Page  14
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the following: Sub-projects
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and, thereafter, maintain within DOF:
(i)
CCBRMO, which shall be headed by a Project Manager and staffed 
with a 
procurement specialist, a project accountant and 
other personnel in adequate 
number and with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank, to: 
(A) promote, appraise, 
manage and supervise Sub-projects under Part C of the 
Project; and 
(B) make recommendations on proposed sub-project feasibility and 
eligibility to TRC;
(ii)
TRC, which shall be chaired by a Program Director and shall have a 
composition 
acceptable to the Bank, to: (A) coordinate inter-agency 
Project activities; 
and (B) analyze the eligibility and 
feasibility of proposed sub-projects under 
Part C of the Project and, 
based on such analysis, make recommendations to MDF 
for the funding of 
said sub-projects; and 
(b)
maintain MDF to: (A) analyze the financial viability of proposed 
sub-projects under Part C of the Project; and (B) decide whether such proposed 
sub-projects should be approved for Sub-loans and grants.
2.
The Borrower: 
(a)
shall develop in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 
furnish to the Bank for approval a manual of operations for Part C of the Project; 
(b)
shall, thereafter, carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with 
such manual as shall have been approved by the Bank, and the Borrower shall ensure 
that MDF, CCBRMO and TRC, inter alia, shall promote, appraise, review, approve and/or 
Page  15
supervise Sub-projects in accordance with the criteria, conditions and procedures set 
out in the Manual of Operations; and  
(c)
shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the Manual of 
Operations, without the prior approval of the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that the proposal for each Sub-project under Part C of 
the Project is approved only if:  
(a)
(i) an analysis of the environmental effects of such Sub-project has been 
prepared; and (ii) if applicable, an environmental impact assessment, satisfactory to 
the Bank, has been undertaken and mitigation measures designed, on the basis of 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the principles set 
forth in the Manual of Operations; 
(b)
a resettlement action plan has been prepared in accordance with the 
principles set forth in the Manual of Operations and such plan has been approved by 
the Bank, if the proposed Sub-project involves resettlement of Project Affected 
Persons; and 
(c)
the Bank has approved a plan that incorporates mechanisms for the 
participation of indigenous peoples in the design and implementation of such 
Sub-project, if the proposed Sub-project involves communities with indigenous 
population, in accordance with the principles set forth in the Manual of Operations.
4.
For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
DOF enter into a Sub-project Agreement with relevant Sponsors in regard to each 
Sub-project approved for financing through a Sub-loan and grant, in accordance with 
procedures and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank as set out in the Manual 
of Operations, which conditions shall include the following: 
(a)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the amount of the Sub-loan and 
grant shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the estimated aggregate costs of an 
eligible Sub-project (excluding the cost of land).  The Sponsors of such Sub-project 
shall be required to contribute at least ten percent (10%) of the total Sub-project 
costs, in material or cash or in services in the planning and supervision of the 
Sub-project. 
(b)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, for the loan portion of a 
Sub-loan and grant, repayment shall be made over a period not exceeding fifteen (15) 
years, including three (3) years of grace; and interest payable on such loan portion 
shall be at the rate of 14%.
(c)
The Sponsor undertakes, inter alia, to:  
(i)
carry out its respective Sub-project with due diligence and 
efficiency in 
accordance with sound managerial, financial, 
technical, environmental and 
relevant sector practices 
acceptable to the Bank, and provide promptly as 
needed the 
resources required for the purposes, and maintain adequate records 
and accounts;
(ii)
(A) take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or 
assets of 
Affected Persons and avoid displacement of Affected Persons; 
and (B) where 
acquisition of land or assets or the 
displacement of Affected Persons is 
unavoidable under a 
proposed sub-project, the Sponsor shall before carrying 
out the works 
which would result in such acquisition or displacement, make 
available to such Affected Persons, compensation and rehabilitation in 
accordance with a resettlement action plan approved by the Bank; 
(iii)
utilize the proceeds of the Sub-loan and grant exclusively in the 
carrying out 
of its respective Sub-project;
(iv)
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect: the goods, facilities 
and sites, 
if any, included in its respective Sub-project; copies of 
any studies or 
reports prepared for the purposes of said 
Page  16
Sub-project; and any other relevant 
records and documents; 
(v)
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the 
Borrower or 
the Bank may reasonably request relating to the foregoing; 
and
(vi)
ensure that goods, works and consultants’ services financed out of 
the 
Sub-loan and grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
5.
The Borrower shall undertake, inter alia, to: 
(a)
exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project;
(b)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any of its agreements providing for a Sub-project Agreement, or any provision 
therefor, without the prior approval of the Bank; and  
(c)
suspend the rights of the Sponsor of a Sub-loan and grant upon failure by 
such Sponsor to perform any of its obligations under its Sub-project Agreement. 
6.
By December 31, 1998, the Borrower shall establish through CCBRMO a computerized 
management information system for monitoring project implementation and its 
development impact, satisfactory to the Bank. 
7.
By September 30, 1998, the Borrower shall put into effect a financial 
information system for foreign-assisted projects, satisfactory to the Bank. 
Work Plans for Training and Environmental Technology Transfer.
8.
By September 30 each year, beginning in 1998, the Borrower shall provide the 
following work plans for the following calendar year to the Bank for review and 
implement the said work plans, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon: 
(a)
Work plan for the training program to be carried out by DILG, DOF, DENR 
and DA, under Parts A and B of the Project respectively; and 
(b)
Work plan for environmental technology transfer activities to be carried 
out by DENR and DA under Part B.2 of the Project, including: (i) the preparation and 
production of technology manuals, distribution of such manuals, testing of new 
technology through pilots and general dissemination of such technology; and 
(ii) identification of land available for community use and transfer of land use 
rights to communities under various tenurial arrangements.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
9.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
(i)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank, on February 15 and August 15 of each year, 
commencing in August 1998, 
semi-annual reports, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 9, on the 
progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of each such report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; 
and 
(ii)
review with the Bank each report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) 
Page  17
(i) of this 
paragraph 9, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period 
following the date of such report, based on the 
conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the view of the Bank on 
the matter;
(c)
(i)
by November 30, 2000 , prepare under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the 
Bank and furnish to the Bank, a report 
integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) 
of this paragraph 9, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project 
during the period preceding the date of such report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(ii)
review with the Bank by December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank 
shall request, the report referred in sub-paragraph 
(c) (i) of this paragraph 
9, and thereafter take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following the 
date of such report, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the views of the Bank on the matter.
