Page  1
May 10, 1999
Hon. Edgardo Espiritu 
Department of Finance 
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Blvd. 
Manila 
Republic of the Philippines
RE:
Banking System Reform Loan Project (LN 4412-PH)
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Dear Secretary Espiritu: 
I refer to the Loan Agreement dated December 11, 1998 between the Republic of 
the Philippines (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) for the above-referenced Project (the Loan Agreement), to the 
Loan Agreement dated February 17, 1999 between the Borrower and the Export-Import Bank 
of Japan (the EXIMBANK) for the same Project (the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement), and to the 
Co-lenders’ Agreement Relating to the cofinancing of the Banking System Reform Loan to 
the Republic of the Philippines, dated February 26, 1999, between the EXIMBANK and the 
Bank (the Co-lenders’ Agreement).  I also refer to the EXIMBANK’s request that the 
Loan Agreement be amended to include a cross default clause, as set forth in Article 
IV of the Co-lenders’ Agreement.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as 
follows:
1.
The Preamble of the Loan Agreement is amended by adding the following new 
paragraph (B):
“(B)
by an agreement dated February 17, 1999 (the "EXIMBANK Loan 
Agreement"), the 
Export-Import Bank of Japan (the EXIMBANK) has agreed to make a 
loan (the "EXIMBANK Loan") 
to the Borrower in an amount in Yen equivalent to 
three hundred million United States 
Dollars (US$300,000,000) to assist in 
financing the Program, on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the EXIMBANK Loan 
Agreement; and ”
and by revising the original paragraph (B) to read as shown in the following paragraph 
(C):
“(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided 
in support of 
the Program to provide the assistance requested by the Borrower by 
making the Loan in three 
tranches as hereinafter provided;”
2.
Article IV of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“ARTICLE IV
Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified: 
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of the EXIMBANK Loan made to the 
Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement therefor, or (B) the 
EXIMBANK Loan shall have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof. 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
Page  2
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement. 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.”
Except as specifically amended by this amendment letter, all provisions of the 
Loan Agreement otherwise remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement to the amendment set out in paragraph 1 above by 
having an authorized representative of the Borrower sign the form of confirmation set 
forth hereinbelow, and returning one fully executed original of this amendment letter 
to us at your earliest convenience and retaining one original of the letter for your 
records.
This amendment letter shall become effective as of the date first above written, 
once it has been fully executed by all parties thereto.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava
Country Director, Philippines
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED: 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ SEC Edgardo B. Espiritu
Authorized Representative
Date:
24 May 1999
